ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u1	We will continue with the debate on the budget for Justice and Security. We had already started and have now come to the spokesman on behalf of the CDA, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. It has not been a celebration in recent years for all those working under the authority of the Minister of Security and Justice. Ask our police officers, the staff of the Justice Department and the judges. Ask the citizens of our country: police stations that were closed, long waiting times at courts and registry rights that went up. Today we are debating with new rulers at the re-branded Ministry of Justice and Security. That is a much discussed name change that, if it is up to the CDA group, is worth the cost if something is actually going to change in the area of police and justice. The coalition agreement offers much scope for this and also financial resources. What would we, as the CDA Group, want to see changed in essence? That's two things. First of all, citizens must start to see the rule of law again as an instrument that effectively protects them in very specific cases: protection against burglary, terrorism or an aggressive motorcycle gang. Just protecting people from what they experience in everyday life. Of course, the rule of law also includes more abstract concepts, such as privacy, human rights and independent justice. These are all very important things that are part of our rule of law, but in the coming years we hope that the rule of law will also have more meaning for citizens in the country. That when you've been robbed, the police don't come to tell you that the odds may be very small that a crook gets caught, but that you're left with another idea if there's been a break-in. Of course, we do not want to have put forward the idiotic side of the PVV representatives here today, that we are completely undermining our rule of law because we are apparently so afraid of a danger that we are all putting it in the dirt. But the rule of law is more than an abstraction. The rule of law is something people must experience day in and day out. A second thing we expect from the rulers is peace, cleanliness and regularity in the judiciary. After years of reorganisation, the police need to be organized, supplemented with fresh new forces. This also applies to our courts and our prisons, where people walk on their eighth legs, on their gums. There had to be peace, cleanliness and regularity in the justice system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u3	I heard the CDA representative say that the PVV has just made idiotic proposals in its input, which undermine the rule of law. But does the CDA think that the penalty level in the Netherlands is high enough? I have mentioned many examples, recent examples, of terribly low penalties. Stepfathers who rape their stepfathers and spend only two years in jail. What does the CDA think of these ridiculously low sentences? Or are you okay with it all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u4	I've heard you talk about putting people away for life. I have heard you talk about how you look at the TBs, which I believe is a valuable tool in the problems we encounter in our society. In that respect, I believe that you are undermining the rule of law. Of course, there are examples to think of that we consider with our wits and wonder why a particular punishment has been imposed, but I will tell you this. I've been a state's attorney for years. I have been on open days of courts for years and have been rehearsing hearings of criminal cases that had actually taken place there. We then stopped at the time when the punishment had to be imposed and I have never seen people impose higher penalties than the judges in the real case itself. You can say here that in general we in the Netherlands are a couple, let us say, weak pussies when it comes to punishment. I have pointed out to you that there is an international comparative study on how we deal with penalties in the Netherlands. That's where we've been going to the top in the last few years. Quite right, I think, because that's what people are asking for. But that is my story and I think you have very little answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u5	My question was more about life imprisonment for very scary rapists and criminals of serious violence. But let's stick to rapists: don't you think a Robert M. should have been in jail for life?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u6	I'm not gonna pass judgment on a case in which the judge gave a judgment. In general, we are the CDA for life imprisonment, but when we talk about the rule of law, we should not throw the child away with the bath water.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u7	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u8	Madam President. I have raised two important points which we see when it comes to the efforts that our rulers are allowed to make. After seven lean years come seven fat years as far as we are concerned. With the coalition agreement and with the financial backing, there are opportunities where we wish the rulers every success to make something beautiful out of it. Of course we will follow them. I am now going to ask a few specific questions in these areas. First of all, about the police. What about the new Audit Committee which is apparently being set up for the police? For the time being, the Chamber has been particularly poorly informed about this by predecessors of the current minister. Of course, this has everything to do with lifting the ICT Review Board and another committee. How's that? Would the Minister, preferably for his first term, like to inform the Chamber about this? Another point is the increase in police strength. In the long term, the police will receive 267 million euros in structural terms. The Minister has already spent EUR 100 million on the Minister of Finance. That's great, but I'd like to see the underlying plan for the 100 million. The Minister had to submit a plan to finance to get that money out. The Chamber doesn't know that plan. I'd like to know what's in there. I would ask that this be sent to the Chamber for the first time. Another point is the use of the whole 267 million over the four years. I would like to receive a plan from the Minister on how this construction will take place in the coming years. Of course, the labour market that we are looking at is also playing a role here, but also preventing us from having another huge drain in the police force in 30 years' time. How does a kind of natural corridor get in there? Wouldn't it also be an option to see if staff other than staff at level 4, if only temporarily, with the example of the Royal Marechaussee, could be recruited to do certain jobs? Emergency breaks laws. Need also leads to creativity. It is incredibly important that we keep the police in place in the coming years, if they have not all come from the training school.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u9	I asked for attention in my term as well. Indeed, there is 267 million in the coalition agreement for the police. The Minister has sent a letter saying that 100 million will probably be spent on 480 FTE. Now I hear colleague Van Dam asking for a plan. I asked for a guarantee, insofar as you can give a guarantee, but at least for something more than a plan, to actually transfer that money to the JenV ministry. Does Mr Van Dam think that a plan alone is enough, or does it really have to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u10	There are two plans as far as I'm concerned. In the first instance, there must be a plan now, because otherwise the Minister would not have received the EUR 100 million. I'd like to see that. Furthermore, I believe that, somewhere in the spring, there should be a general plan on how to invest the whole amount over the cabinet period and how to achieve it, including in a division across the country. Those things should all be in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr President, I shall continue. The Special Court for Police Violence is one of the important things that we as CDA have wanted. We want a single court to be designated where cases such as Mitch Henriquez's death are dismissed. Can the Minister indicate when he's going to designate that court and what these plans look like? Then report it immediately. Mr. Chairman. The distance between police and citizens has only increased in recent years. This has to do with the closure of police stations, but also with the way in which the police are now organised in larger base teams. In 2014 there were 400 police stations and in 2025 there will be 167. Not for everyone is reporting via internet an option. Few understand that sometimes you have to wait two weeks to get rid of your story. If the Rabobank can bring money to its customers, couldn't the police just report it to your home? Should we not go there to make this connection with the citizen who is in need immediately, because how often does it happen to you that you are a victim of a crime? My question to the Minister is: what are his ideas and what can he promise and realise in this respect? Then on other subjects: justice and legal aid, access to justice. It has already been recalled that the Van der Meer report has recently been published. As far as the CDA is concerned, sufficient research and reporting has now been carried out and action needs to be taken. Because yes, part of the legal profession is in need. We fully support the fact that we do not solve this need with money in the short term. With regard to subsidised legal aid, but above all access to justice, a substantially different line will have to be chosen. We ask the Minister, in cooperation with the lawyer, especially with legal aid insurers and the Legal Assistance Council, to come up with a plan and deliver that plan for the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u13	I thought I heard something quite different from what the CDA spokesperson wrote in his letter. The Minister wrote: there is still a lot to talk about, there is still a lot to look into, we are going to talk a lot to the lawyer. On which the lawyer said: we're doing no different, we've been talking since 2010, there's a bunch of reports, there's got to be action now. And then Mr Van Dam says: but there can be no money. The simple question is: why should access to justice, one of the foundations of our rule of law, not be spent any more? Why is there a need to cut back on this? What is the justification for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u14	There is a danger that the President will at some point say to me that I should confine myself to an answer: there is so much to say on this issue. But there is already so much material on paper to come to a line. Let me put it this way: at the moment, subsidised legal aid is best compared to a health care system that only works towards hospitalisation. Once you realize that, you'll get paid. There are a number of basic principles in the current system of legal aid. If we don't solve that, we'll have to pump money into it for years, and that's not the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u15	Well, I don't think that's right. But if it were, if the Minister were to come up with proposals that would make it cheaper in the long term while maintaining quality, we would still be able to find each other. But the starting position is already wrong and that was it when the Van der Meer Committee was commissioned. The task was: it should not cost more money. And fortunately, the expert Van der Meer committee said: you have given me an impossible task, because the only conclusion may be that it has to cost more money. Whether the budget is up in September, and I don't think we want it either. So why don't you turn it around, why don't you say: we're going to work together with the minister, with the parties and with the sector itself to see where we can improve the system? Then in the long run, if you're convinced that with less money, we can find each other. But don't turn around and don't say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Don't turn around and don't say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Surely that is a strange starting point for one of the foundations of our rule of law, namely access to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u16	Yes, Mr. Van Nispen, I think you really are a representative of a socialist party. Because with you, an improvement always costs more money. And I think that is fundamentally different. Because I wonder if an improvement should cost more money. It's not about the law, it's about access to justice. The point is that people, especially those who cannot afford it themselves, can provide adequate legal aid. There we are, I think, very close together. But in the report, which you have probably read, you have also come across a lot of elements that we can turn to and tinker with in order not to make an extra financial effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr. Van Nispen, we agreed on a question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u18	But I was challenged!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u19	Yeah, he said you're a member of the Socialist Party, that's true. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u20	That would be a challenge for me! I understand Mr Van Nispen's point. It is not a question of always adding more money; it is a question of being said by Mr Van Dam, and also in the coalition agreement, that there will be no more money at all. So don't turn it around now. It's not like the SP or GroenLinks says there's going to be more money. Mr Van Dam says: there is no money available. We would like to have a look at the substance of what is needed. There may be less money, there may be more money. But that is a rational debate. You don't want to do that, the CDA just wants to say that at least there's no more money. That's pretty irrational, and the opposition doesn't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u21	I hear you say it, I almost want to say it. I'm repeating myself. I would specifically like to discuss the quality, objectives and all aspects of legal aid. In fact, I am very excited to debate this, because I see a lot of opportunities to achieve what we all want: that groups in our society who need it should have access to justice and justice. I simply refuse to say in advance that this should automatically cost more money. I don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u22	And there's a report, I understand. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u23	That is fine, perhaps Mr Van Dam and I can agree and have a good debate on this, and we are not committed to anything in advance. But then I also want the promise that we will not commit ourselves in advance that there will be no more money. Is it possible to make that appointment? We do not say in advance 'there must be more money' and Mr Van Dam does not say in advance 'there must be no more money'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u24	I shall begin the debate on the substance of the matter. I'm not making the promise you're asking of me. I'm very honest with you about that. I see all kinds of other buttons on which we can have a much better debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u26	Thank you. In any case, before the summer of 2018, I would like to see a plan by the Minister on how things are actually going to work out. Then there is the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, a project of impressive size. We should like to hear from the Minister what the actual planning is now. There has been some talk about it in the actual answer to questions, but I would also like to hear it from the Minister. I would also like to hear from him what his intention is not to impose an enormous administrative burden on the implementing agencies. Mr. Chairman. A lot of new legislation will come to us in the coming years. Such legislation must be of good quality and be applicable in practice. The CDA Group attaches great importance to good advice from the field, including from our judges and prosecutors. That is why we advocate the continuation of the subsidy of the Dutch Association for Justice, the professional association of the judiciary. Not for their union work, but for their advisory role. We will discuss an amendment on this later. Finally, road safety. The number of fatal accidents is increasing. It was also explicitly discussed yesterday in IenM's budget debate. The use of the smartphone has also been discussed there. I have a specific proposal which I would like to emphasise by way of a motion if necessary, but I hope the Minister will follow me on this. This is about the "de-Muldering" of using the smartphone. Having a smartphone in your hands behind the wheel is punishable, but it's now a Mulder fact. That means that if you pay the fine, it's off and on and on and that you don't build up a recidivism either. If matters are not dealt with in Mulder, in administrative law, but in criminal law, then it is possible that the officer may impose heavier penalties in the event of a repeated event, ascending to the disqualification of driving. In the past, a minister's predecessor has done the same. It has taken a number of facts from the Muldersphere into criminal law, which are the so-called "dirty facts." It is not the language that the CDA is simply doing, but the request is whether the Minister also wants to name the use of the smartphone in traffic as an asshole fact. I would like a response from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr Van Oosten wants to say something about the use of smartphones in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u28	That's why I'm taking my smartphone with me right now, because I looked it up exactly. My colleague from the VVD group did indeed raise the point of reckless driving yesterday in relation to the smartphones: you use your smartphone while you are driving. Does this fit in with Mr Van Dam's line, or does he think that this is a completely different subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u29	It's the same theme, but on themes you can vary. Yesterday it was about the bill announced by the minister's predecessor, Minister Blok, in the Chamber. I believe that this is about the situation that it leads to a collision and that you will see to what extent smartphone use is involved and should lead to criminal proceedings. I myself am not entirely free of blemishes in this area either, but I have been putting that thing in the trunk lately so as not to seduce myself in it. What I want to do with this proposal is to see that we are all undergoing this change of behaviour, which is urgently needed in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u30	Please continue. Oh, you were ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u31	I'd like to move on, but I'd like to stop, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I will focus today on undermining, money laundering, cyber security and prostitution. Undermining crime is in particular in Brabant, but we see it also in Limburg and Zeeland and this crime is heading north. Undermining crime is increasingly causing a mix between the underworld and the upperworld. This directly affects the viability of vulnerable neighbourhoods. Let us move forward, then we will have an alternative society in which crime and criminal money are considered normal. The urgency to combat this crime effectively is high. The handles for this are included in the coalition agreement. There will be additional financial resources and additional legal opportunities. On the undermining fund, my colleague from the VVD, Mr Van Oosten, has said the necessary things, including on our behalf. We do assume that the 100 million that goes into the fund will actually be increased because 30 million have already been released. In fact, the size of the fund should, as far as we are concerned, be 130 million. I'd like a response from the cabinet on this. Of course, it only hits purpose if it has a long-term impact, as Mr Van Oosten rightly pointed out. We have just had a debate on the need not only to take things away, but also to return them to society. That is very complicated, because we normally want fines and other settlements to go to the state treasury. But precisely the very typical things that we take away criminals, we would like to give back to society. Can the cabinet give a concrete answer to this? Let me focus a little bit more on the Undermining Act, because I'm curious when the Chamber will be able to face it. Could the Minister outline all the outlines of this? As far as the CDA is concerned, this law allows for the sharing of information, extends the scope of the Bibob Act, strengthens sanctions in case of non-cooperation and amends Article 13b of the Opium Act, even further than the proposal currently in the Chamber. Maybe mayors have more notes on their vocals. The question is whether they are involved in the elaboration. Criminals are getting bolder and bolder. One in eight farmers in Brabant indicates that they have been approached by criminals, for example, to make their shed or shed available for criminal activities. Exorbitant amounts are offered. Farmers are intimidated. Once you've gone into the sea with this, it's impossible to get rid of them. Initiatives that ensure that farmers and entrepreneurs are supported and can make a joint fight against these mafia practices should be financed according to the CDA. Take the CCV, which makes the difference with its Quality mark Safe Enterprise, Quality mark Safe Outside and a quality mark for safe holiday parks, precisely because it tackles this problem together with the sector and not from above. His subsidy must not stop, hence the amendment before us. Speaking of mixing the underworld and the upworld, we see money laundering increasing. The exact extent of the problem is not clear, but it appeared from 2007 research that it amounts to EUR 18.5 billion. And tricky constructions are increasing. Take the new forms of the classic loan-back construction, whereby criminals lend their own money to themselves. In the UK, forms of crowdfunding are gaining popularity whereby entrepreneurs with business plans that have been rejected by the bank eventually receive money through crowdfunding websites. Genie gets so criminal money laundered. It even happens that donors are fake and the criminal crowdfunds himself. Is the Minister aware of such practices in the Netherlands, and is he prepared to investigate how effective action can be taken against them? The Public Prosecutor's Office recently warned about the bitcoin machines, which are also used as money-launderers in the Netherlands. That's nice for criminals who can launder $15,000, but I want to know what can be done about it in supervision. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the unbridled commitment of our security services and the police, who are committed to combating terror, the Netherlands has been spared an attack over the past decade. But we can't slacken. It's still a top priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mrs. Helder has an interruption. Were you done with this point, Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u35	No, but I think Mrs Helder wants to talk about the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u36	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u37	I think that's because she jumped up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u38	Tell me, Mrs. Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u39	Yes, my colleague Van Toorenburg has that right. It was about undermining, and I think that block is over. The coalition agreement states that there will be 100 million in such an undermining fund once. I tabled a motion with Mr Van Toorenburg in February of this year and she did so with me, I have to say, because it is her motion for a resolution which includes a so-called undermining fund. But then our intention was that it would be structural. We held that motion. So my question is: is there any movement towards a structural undermining fund? Or did the CDA leave that position?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u40	We have not left any points of view, but we must always see what is feasible. For the moment, we have managed to get 100 million into it. That is what we have achieved now. Mrs Helder is right to point out that more is needed, because, when it is up, we will eventually have to move forward. So the question I have heard from Mr Van Oosten to the cabinet is also the question I put to the cabinet: how do we ensure that it has a long-term impact? Because with just one 100 million blow, I don't think we're really gonna beat that crime out of our hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u41	That's encouraging, because if you see what billions are going on in this business, we have to call it a business, then 100 million is a waste. I heard Professor Tops say that literally. I therefore hope that this one-off EUR 100 million will have a multiannual impact, but also that these budget cuts will eventually be lifted so that it can become structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u42	As a Catholic, I don't say that all the indulgences are horrible, but this one would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u43	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mr. Chairman. I come to the issue of combating terrorism. I said a few brief introductory words about that. Of course, it starts with deradicalisation. This should be more effective and best practices should be better shared. In addition, hate preachers should not be given a stage, not in The Hague, but also elsewhere. That is why we will continue our legislative proposal to criminalise the glorification of terrorist violence. Because now it seems as if a hate imam is no longer allowed in two quarters in The Hague, but he cannot go his divine course in Gouda or Rotterdam. Mr. Chairman. The government agreement contains good plans for making money flows more transparent. I don't have to stand still for long. However, I would like to say a few words about the criminalisation of intentional residence without permission in areas controlled by terrorist organisations. As far as we are concerned, this is a priority. I would like to hear from the cabinet whether it sees it as such, and whether this also applies to the comments made in the government agreement on DNA research and the extension of the provisional detention. In this context, I would also like to ask for clarification about the IS-goer who was found in De Balie. He visited a meeting there and eventually managed to get away. As many questions as Mr De Graaf has asked, I cannot ask, but let me simply agree. The tone of some questions was not my tone, but the completeness was to be respected. I wonder what the cabinet can say to that. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to cybersecurity. The world around us doesn't stand still. Digitisation also shifts the threat of crime to the online world. State actors who want to influence our democratic processes, but also scams and internet theft, mean that we need to look at the online world in a new way. It must no longer be a safe house for a system without supervision and rules. With this cabinet, cyber security in the Netherlands, both in terms of human capacity and in terms of investment, is being pursued more than ever, almost 100 million. But there's more to it. A cyber security agenda is needed. We expect a great deal from the Minister of Justice and Security in this respect. Can he shed all his light on this? In this context, may I refer to our group chairman's call for reflection on an Internet authority? What is the response of the Minister of Justice and Security to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u45	I, too, read the interview with Mr Buma in the newspaper last Saturday. I am very pleased with the attention of the CDA to cyber security. That is a great step forward. Congratulations for that, but Mr Buma's proposal was very vague: an authority. What exactly is this authority going to do? How exactly does the CDA see that? As I understand it now, it looked mainly like some kind of Internet censorship organization. I don't think that's the way we should go. I would therefore be very interested to hear about the implementation of the authority of Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u46	I knew this interruption would come; at least I felt her coming. Then I thought, "I can't do it to you to start with the Romans." Of course, I couldn't do that and yet I'm making a very small trip. What happened back then? It was seen that society had to organize itself and then they made laws, but all those old laws, on which our current code of conduct is based, are still basically about a physical world. We've been able to do a few things about energy, then we're all artificial: how does that fit in the physical world? But we have to establish with each other that a completely different world has arisen on the Internet. We don't really have a good view of that. D66 always rightly points out that privacy is of great importance and that we need to ensure that there are open sources. That's all fantastic. We want everything because we don't accept that influence, but that also means that we have to be critical about this and that you can't hide behind your screen and then do anything you can't do outside. As far as we are concerned, that is important. What can we do? We can monitor, monitor and monitor large parties, such as Facebook, Google and Twitter. And we can help citizens and businesses to be more active about the risks, because the Internet is not only for Mr Verhoeven and for me, but also for my mother, who occasionally experiences it as one big threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u47	Absolutely. A fine visionary argument about the changes in the world and its impact on our society, including Mrs Van Toorenburg's mother. We all know that the world is changing and that digitisation has a lot of impact. Everyone knows that there are risks involved. I also understand that this is not about privacy, but at the end of her speech Mrs Van Toorenburg mentions three concrete things: monitoring and tackling Facebook and Google. Of course, we already have two organisations for this, namely the AIVD, which monitors, and the Authority Consumer & Market, which looks at the position of powerful tech companies in the Netherlands. As far as I'm concerned, you can make a proposal for an authority, but at least tell me what that authority should do, otherwise it's a little bit stuck: we're afraid of something and so we'll come up with an authority, because then we've done something about cyber security. As far as I'm concerned, that's a little too thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr Verhoeven is about to come up with a proposal in which he says that we need to link up a number of things better. That's what this is all about. All organisations currently active on the Internet do so with a certain goal binding. We think it is important to create an authority that looks much more comprehensively at what is happening on the Internet. We see all kinds of movements there that we can't see. That's what we see coming from other countries. We have had this discussion a hundred times and I do not need to repeat it, but we know how certain countries try to influence our Dutch democracy. That's one way. On the other hand, people don't know what to rely on when it comes to money laundering, bitcoins and everything that happens. In addition, we see this in the small world, with internal summits. We don't know what to do anymore. If you have bought nice gifts for your children later, perhaps at the Media Market, I wonder if you were at the real Media Market, because that is where a whole criminal organization is already moving in. In countless places you can see that the internet is actually being ripped out of its joints. I want an authority on this, which will ensure that it is brought back together with better supervision and better assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u49	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can go a lot further, because I don't have to say anything more about that cybersecurity agenda. I will continue with another part of the coalition agreement, which rightly states that we should also consider Book 2, Article 20 of the Civil Code in which we are actually talking about anti-democratic forces trying to undermine our democracy. I am also very curious to see how this cabinet is going to work on that passage from the coalition agreement. Then, Mr President, about punishment and protection; a good balance is always that. Last week we had a general discussion on the prison system. We have also talked about conditional release. It has been a thorn in the eyes of the CDA for a long time that people, even though they behave wrongly, can still qualify for a conditional release. Fortunately, we are finally going to change that and the Minister has indicated that he is going to work on this phase of detention. I have one more request. Can we really take into account what we are going to do for young adults in our criminal justice system? It's more than just locating up in a youth center. They must have a future. I am curious to see how the Minister for Legal Protection intends to implement this. Then, Chairman, go to the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. I'm new to this file. The coalition agreement has a comprehensively balanced paragraph on asylum and migration, one of the major challenges of today. Now that the issue of migration has already been discussed at length in the debate on BuHa-OS, I will focus on asylum. It has been agreed that the Cabinet should conduct independent investigations into whether and, if so, how the 1951 Refugee Convention should be brought up to date in order to provide a sustainable legal framework for the international asylum policy of the future. Can the Secretary of State say anything about the way he's going to work on this assignment, because it's a big deal? I'm actually curious how he looks at that. It is also important to adapt legislation and regulations in this area, where the CDA is particularly interested in the intention to deal with these accumulations and a reduction in the asylum permit. It is not the status of displaced persons, but I am actually curious as to how the Secretary of State will implement it. There are also important passages in the coalition agreement about the detention of foreigners. As far as we are concerned, that remains an ultimatum remedium, but the effectiveness needs to be increased. To this end, European legislation seems to need to be adapted. The question is how the Secretary of State is going to go down that road. Then I'm gonna take a look at a group called the Albanians. They cause such serious problems that a visa requirement is reason enough for them. We are going to talk about it, but perhaps the Secretary of State can already say something about it. Our colleague Anne Kuik is also here; she is our new spokesperson on prostitution and trafficking in human beings, but we have now agreed that I will take care of this part here. I would also like to hear her voice when we talk about the voices in the human trafficking dossier. If you don't hear the voices of those victims, it doesn't mean they're not there. Estimates range from 5,000 to 7,500 victims of trafficking in human beings. Women are often forced into prostitution by coercion, intimidation and manipulation. They cannot make their voices heard, and that is why we stand up for them. We have successfully argued for this cabinet to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings. The government agreement focuses on providing additional opportunities for municipalities and police in the prevention, alerting and combating of trafficking in human beings. The national rapporteur recently referred to the need for this. Many municipalities currently have no policy on trafficking in human beings. 35% have no idea whether human trafficking exists in their municipality. We have already received a letter on this, but I really want to get a little more colour from this Secretary of State, because it is all so disturbing. An active alert policy is particularly important in the case of trafficking in human beings. That is why this government is also going to ensure that there is a legal basis for local intake talks with prostitutes. This is the only way for the GGD to be able to identify abuses more frequently and on time. For this purpose it is important to know exactly what to pay attention to when issuing an alert. So we ask the Secretary of State for a plan of action to provide medical professionals with tools to provide adequate care for victims of trafficking in human beings and to identify trafficking in human beings. Traffickers should not benefit from unequal surveillance and enforcement opportunities. Uniformity is important to combat crimes. It must end these shady practices of home prostitution and unequal regulation. The legislative proposal for regulation of prostitution is being continued. This makes it possible for all prostitutes/prostitutes to have a uniform registration requirement. It is better to get a look at parts of that sector, such as the escort and self-employed prostitutes/prostitutes. #MeToo is an item that currently lives a lot in this society. I must honestly tell you that we also have some sort of organized #MeToo in the Netherlands and we call it prostitution. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your attention. I wish these leaders every success and pleasure in this important work; that they can work for the safety of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u51	I would like to make a comment about 'an organized #MeToo in the form of prostitution'. You know, prostitution is a legal profession. With Mrs Van Toorenburg, I will fight hardest for anyone who is involuntaryly put into prostitution to be exploited, and all of it, to be taken out of it. We must fight hard for that, but of course we cannot say that every sex worker would necessarily do so involuntarily. I think that goes too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u52	I hear Mr Van Oosten say that. I have really looked into that over the past few years. I've seen the shit it's all about. I just can't put it any other way. People aren't free. There's been a massive repression. From all the police and GGD figures, occasionally, they say that 90% of the women are simply forced to sit behind the windows. I think it's an organized form of #MeToo. Perhaps I should take that on my own and not Mr Van Oosten in our fantastic coalition. But I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u54	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u55	Good afternoon to you, too. I'm glad you're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you. Nice to meet you. That wasn't interrupting. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg went very quickly, so I wanted to give her some extra speaking time in the area of asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u57	Ah! Such tricks, Mr. Jasper van Dijk,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u58	Tricks? Tricks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yes, allow each other speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u60	I see. But I have a very good relationship with Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u61	Yeah, mostly about ticketing, Mr. Chairman. Brilliant we are in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u62	Exactly. Anyway, let's get to it. I would like to ask whether Mrs Van Toorenburg agrees with me and with many other organisations such as the UN, but also Amnesty, for example, that Afghanistan is currently not a safe country because of the enormous violence and attacks that are taking place there. Do you share my opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u63	I can't say I share the opinion. I heard Mr Van Ojik say something about that. I know that it has been discussed in another debate and that many Members in this Chamber are concerned about the current situation in Afghanistan. I know that it is not until July, I believe, that we intend to issue a new post of office on this subject and that we must ask ourselves each time whether you can wait that long. I heard Mr Van Ojik ask this cabinet and I did not think that was a stupid question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u64	That is what I warmly welcome on behalf of Mr Van Ojik, because you are absolutely right. The situation in Afghanistan is very worrying, and that is an understatement. We are indeed working on a new message of office, which we await with interest. The point is, of course, that expulsions can take place at the moment. If you know that the government, or the Ministry, is looking at this situation again, then it is rather painful to continue with these expulsions. I would therefore like to ask whether Mrs Van Toorenburg agrees with me that we should deal with this very reluctantly and perhaps even suspend the expulsions, that policy, until we have the update of the situation in Afghanistan that is currently under way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u65	I don't know if that's too common. I think this cabinet has heard very well that the Chamber is concerned about that. So that also means that you need to see who you're shutting down right now. At the same time, we know that this cabinet, at least the Secretary of State, has discretion. He can always deliver customization. I think we should always give him that space. What I have intended to do, and I note that this is very difficult on this dossier, is not to present individual cases here to the Secretary of State. If I were to do it, it would have to be such an extremely poignant situation that I wouldn't accept no from him either. But I do not think we should discuss individual matters here in the Chamber. We must ensure that official messages arrive on time and that the Secretary of State knows that he has the freedom to act if he thinks that people are in danger. I think the Secretary of State heard me on this file today, thanks to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u66	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. No, Mrs. Buitenweg, I'm sorry, I'm really going to Mr. Van Nispen now. You've interrupted so many times. That's not quite balanced. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u67	Society is falling apart because of the growing inequality between population groups. In this "everyone for themselves" society, the rule of law is no longer doing what it is supposed to do: ensuring equal opportunities for all. Those are wise words, but unfortunately not from the coalition agreement. It is the words of the Minister of Justice and Security earlier this year that were the first visible act in this ministry to change its name. From now on, the J had to stand in front of the V to stress that we have a rule of law, according to Minister Grapperhaus. Then he is not, but the Minister for Legal Protection is largely responsible for the J. You know, the Minister for Legal Protection who is going to cut legal aid. The hard cuts in safety in recent years are not being brushed away, at most on parts, and I find that disappointing. But the budget treatment of Justice and Security is not just about money. For me, this is mainly about justice and trust. It is urgently necessary to restore confidence in the Ministry that is to guard our rule of law and ensure security. It is also essential to make it visible that the government is willing to ensure justice. For example, trust also means that the government is there for you when you need it. For example, if you're the victim of a crime. But whether you've been conned on the Internet or severely abused, there's a good chance that your case will end up in a pile. And that's actually unbelievable. Victims are people who have been wronged. Many victims want to be able to count on a government that is also there for them. So the government must be an ally of victims. But what do we see happening? Someone who was beaten at night and kicked in the head like it was a football has been waiting months for the case to be dealt with against four known suspects at the hearing; the Public Prosecutor's Office is too busy. In Limburg, relatives were told that the investigation into their murder case was parked because there are too few detectives. A victim of theft of his digital currency can whistle his pennies. There's not enough capacity and expertise in the police department. This victim's tips aren't gonna work. Less than 10% of home invasions are resolved. For cybercrime, this is 6%. This shows how victims are dealt with. As a result, people lose the confidence that the government is there for them. How do victims get the feeling that justice comes first if they have to wait months because the government has not provided enough detectives, prosecutors and judges? Why can't they trust that the injustice they have been wronged will be dealt with? Then where is justice? Things shouldn't be in a pile, but they should be dealt with. Shouldn't this be subject to deadlines? For example, aggravated assault with known suspects within three months at the hearing. Victim tips to solve a case are supposed to be taken seriously. I would like to ask the Minister to elaborate on this from the perspective of the victim. "Police deserve better working conditions and career prospects." This is a quote. May I have a reply from Minister Grapperhaus to this interesting view of Mr Grapperhaus a few months ago, page 121 of his book? The promises made by the national police have not been fulfilled, not for the citizens, but also for the police. That's what recent studies show. What's the Minister's plan B? What's he gonna do about the discontent between the cops and the wretched ICT? How is this new minister going to ensure that cops can do their jobs and get citizens to trust the police? Our police officers must also be able to rely on their leadership and on the Ministry. How is it ensured that the conditions in which they can do their job are optimal? How are they supposed to rely on a government that wants them to work longer while they've been on it for so many years? We are talking, for example, about an agent who, at 67, still has to run after the bad guys, while the stress of the job already leads to a high absenteeism in the workplace. The VVD wants agents who are sick at home to go back to work, and the CDA wants that reports to be recorded within one day, while today it appears that there is a huge shortage of agents due to the years of austerity in police education. How many times have we warned you about that? So how does the entire police organization regain the confidence that the government has sufficient insight into the major problems that are going to arise and will actually solve them? Prison staff must be able to trust that it can work in safe conditions, but unfortunately it cannot. The actions of the prison staff have helped. Action helps. I've already congratulated them on that. There will be additional staff, peace and security, but my question is: how will the Minister deliver on these promises for EUR 25 million a year? This money must also come from the own funds of the Judicial Institutions Office. Isn't it a cigar from your own box? That's what the prison staff are wondering. What if the investigation into this necessary staffing effort, which is important for reducing the workload and insecurity, shows that more money is needed? Is the money or the safety of the people at the top? Mr. Chairman. Justice also means that the government must be there for those who seek justice. If you do not guarantee proper access to justice, injustice will persist. Not the right of the strongest should apply; everyone has the right to rights. The Minister's reaction to the report of the Van der Meer Committee is very disappointing. For years too little money has been available for public-funded legal aid. This reduces the quality of legal aid. This touches on the basis of the rule of law. Looks like the social lawyer's smokeout policy. But the Minister says we're only going to discuss how we're going to make the cuts. There is not a single penny, even though the need for this has now been strongly supported by all kinds of studies. This minister does not stand for those who seek justice. You are the Minister for Legal Affairs and not the Minister for Legal Affairs, aren't you? The VVD's struggle to squeeze access to justice continues. I find that very disappointing. Why does the Minister make this choice? Access to justice not only means that the right must be affordable. The right must also be close, literally not too far away, preferably in the vicinity, such as the court of appeal: an experienced expert who listens to all parties in a fast, easily accessible, simple and affordable procedure and then leads on to a compromise. A solution suitable for everyone is sought together with those involved. According to the SP, that has the future. We can see that from the first results. Will the Minister promise that he will be inspired by this? It's already under pressure. I have had to ask Parliament questions about this this week, because it seems that this beautiful project is being countered. Mediation in criminal law is also very important. This is very appropriate for certain matters. It can happen again and it can help victims to deal with the suffering. A minimum of EUR 1.5 million is also needed for next year. Why should we cut back on this? That is a question I would like to put to the coalition parties. It would be a great shame if the beauty that has been built up in this area was thrown away. Then I'll come to the Registry. Then I have to quote the Minister of Justice and Security once again: there are even provisions, such as the fees payable to the court when one wants to sue, which have been deliberately made so high in recent years, that people with much lower incomes will not be so quick to try to get their rights. Page 95 of the book. That is an interesting analysis, and I would like a response from the Minister for Legal Protection. Today, the SP specifically proposes that people who are not able to afford it should not be asked for a registration fee for those who are below the welfare standard. These people don't have to pay tickets to court anymore. There is no legal basis for it yet, but the highest judges have already ruled that you cannot avoid it, otherwise you would be in breach of the obligation to guarantee access to justice. I would like to receive a response to this proposal. Is the Minister prepared to make a proposal to reduce registry fees for small money claims? Small and medium-sized enterprises have been asking for this for a long time. It is not to be explained that you first have to pay €470 to the Registry for the collection of a cash claim of €500. Who's gonna do that? I would also like to comment on this proposal. There has been insufficient funding of justice for years. There's a big budget deficit. The Court's own funds fall into the red figures. Because of purely budgetary considerations, the Minister does not keep to the agreements. In fact, that also violates confidence. The SP wants to propose an initiative law that the justice system, as third state power, gets a separate budget separate from that of the Ministry of Justice and Security. Then I come to the miscarriages of justice. Unrighteous convictions are a disaster for the rule of law. What is the situation with regard to the development of the SP proposal adopted last year in order to facilitate the recovery of judicial errors? The SP is okay with experiments on pot growing. Finally. Is the Minister prepared to say that these will be different experiments, as the municipalities have indicated? If you're all organizing uniform experiments, you don't know what does and what doesn't work afterwards. Mr. Chairman. I like to debate the fine work of the Foundation Disputes Committees on Consumer Affairs. But for the third year in a row I am actually going too far to debate the same subject again, when nothing has changed. Because again, it's an unwise cut on a nice, low-threshold and cheap alternative to a much more expensive trial. I said it last year and I said it the year before. Why is this subsidy cut for the third time in a row and why should the SP stop for the third year in a row? The same applies to the Meldpunt Kinderporno, Sektesignal and the Dutch Association for Justice. They are completely different organisations, but all in a very different way incredibly valuable to our rule of law. I think that the Minister has made a great deal of effort simply by using a structural cover which the Chamber found last year to change. The Minister himself has caused that problem and now the Chamber can solve it again. I really don't think that's possible. In my view, this is not the way to deal with organisations of this kind, by removing them from the budget without any explanation. That too violates trust. If the coalition wants to take over or copy proposals from the opposition and turn them into some kind of cow business, that's fine. I do not participate in these political games, but do it well and for the amounts that are needed. Otherwise, the judge's gonna get hurt again. So I assume you all simply support the amendment before you on the Consumer Disputes Committees Foundation, because nothing has actually changed compared to last year. If you don't say anything, you agree. Otherwise, I'd like to hear it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u68	I would like to ask Mr Van Nispen a question on the subject of the Committee on Disputes. Can Mr Van Nispen explain to me why the taxpayer should indirectly or indirectly cofinance the dispute that a consumer has with a producer who has supplied something that that consumer has not asked for and what is a mistake of that supplier? Why do we have to finance that? Why should we not just say to the producer: pay for it yourself? You must deliver what you have signed a contract for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u69	It's a very interesting idea. In my view, Mr Van Oosten is well aware that 80% of the Foundation's Consumer Disputes Committees are already being paid by industry. There's only a very small part of it that's paid for by the government. If we do not do so and delete the discount, as the Minister proposed in the budget, then we will see that business does not increase that contribution. The first cancellation letters have already been received. I therefore hope that you will support me in stopping this. The first termination letters are already in and this beautiful, accessible and good alternative to consumers for the much more expensive trial would put you at risk. That's all the more unwise because there's a lot more expensive lawsuits coming back if you throw away this alternative procedure. Taxpayers will only suffer even more. Mr Van Oosten should therefore explain why the taxpayer contributes to the justice system. Dispute resolution is something the government pays for. That is what we do in the case-law, and we do so for a very modest amount, a small subsidy, also at the Foundation Disputes Committees on Consumer Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u70	Now I am also a little critical of Mr Van Nispen's answer to the question I am asking him. As you sometimes do to me, I am now in your direction through the I would simply ask you to explain to me why the taxpayer should add a sum to a dispute that was caused by the producer himself because he did not deliver what he should have supplied. Why do we have to pay for that? Why don't we just say to that producer "sorry, but you don't keep your appointments; do it nicely"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u71	A brief answer, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u72	That's exactly the same question I just answered. One, business already pays 80%. The government pays a very small amount of money. That's two dollars because the government also gives the authority to that Foundation Disputes Committees on Consumer Affairs. Moreover, I think Mr Van Oosten also knows that there is a European obligation. This obligation requires public authorities to maintain alternatives in a wide range of areas, including health care. In part, therefore, the Committee on Disputes must also remain in place. If you put that at risk by deleting a small subsidy, we will only be farther away from home and in the long term we will lose a lot more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u73	I think it is right that Mr Van Nispen should raise this point. I would actually ask the Minister to pay particular attention to this European obligation in his reply. What are we gonna do...? Where those...? What does it force us to do? The word "producer" is already difficult to pronounce, but all this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u74	This is a justified addition to Mr Van Dam. But I would add something, and that is the following: if you limit it to just what you are obliged to do with European law, then there is so little left that can't be done. Then you'll have a very small government contribution. If you were only to do what is legally required, the costs for business would increase. If you're sure no one's gonna quit, that's for your responsibility, but I know the first letters of termination are already in. I think it is a good question and I'm curious about the answer, but let's not put this on the line. Other years we supported it. In the meantime, there is no reason why the Foundation should no longer deserve a subsidy. What changed why we shouldn't support it now? Next year there will be an evaluation; let us at least wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u75	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u76	I would prefer structural funding. Mr President, you may allow my time to continue. I will continue with my speech. I'm fine with it. I'd like structural funding the best, because we'll know right away. If we have to, at least for next year, let us extend the grant once more. Then we can have a substantive discussion about this afterwards. I find it very careless to do so without any real discussion, and that is the case if this is the only thing on the basis of which it is possible to destroy a beautiful organisation. I don't think we should do it like this. Let me comment on the fight against fraud in the Netherlands. Why not announce plans to combat fraud better? That is one of the major challenges. This is what billions are all about! It would be just to call people with ties or white collars... "white-collar crime" that traditional. I am not talking specifically about you, Mr Verhoeven. You happen to have them both. It would be fair to tackle this white-collar crime as well. There is sometimes the impression that this is hardly a priority and I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. I wish both ministers and the Secretary of State every success. Ensure trust in the Ministry and the rule of law in the interests of justice!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mr. Chairman. After this sharp speech by my colleague Van Nispen, I should like to say a few words about asylum and migration. Migration is of all times. Since time immemorial, people have been looking for a better life elsewhere. That can be because of war and violence, but also because of a lack of perspective. That is understandable, but it also requires boundaries, because it leads to tensions when millions of people move to one place. That is why borders are needed, both geographically and politically. Borders that make migration acceptable to its own inhabitants, but also human towards people fleeing war and violence. Most people are willing to help people in need, provided it remains manageable. It is about finding a balance between manageability and humanity. The SP advocates a realistic immigration policy. We offer a place for people in need, but we can't accommodate everyone. It's the art of limiting hopeless migration. First of all, we are dealing with the root causes. The government wants that too, and that is good, but let us be very precise, because what are these causes? Poverty, war, lack of perspective. What can the Netherlands do about it? As far as we're concerned, we're no longer participating in wars that increase the misery. That's a cause of origin. So stop participating in wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and Mali. Also stop unfair trade, with wrong trade agreements and facilitating tax avoidance by multinationals, causing developing countries to miss millions, which in turn creates migration. As long as these matters continue, root causes are not really addressed. Does the government share that opinion? The government states in the government agreement that the countries with which refugee deals are concluded must meet the conditions of the Refugee Convention. What do you mean by the word "material"? Do you mean that countries must respect human rights? Then the logical follow-up question is: does the Turkey deal material comply with the Refugee Convention? I don't think so, because there's a whole lot wrong with that deal. It is not for nothing that thousands of refugees are trapped in Greece. Human rights violations in Turkish reception camps are the order of the day, as the Vrije Universiteit reported. Exploiting children who have to do work, you name it. A deal with Libya also seems to me a difficult story, to put it mildly. However, there are already agreements, directly or indirectly, between the EU and Libya. The EU trains the Libyan Coast Guard to stop migrants. A deal with a country in ruins, where, according to the United Nations, there are thousands of refugees in need, without access to basic facilities. Last week, we saw footage of slave trade. It can't get much more barbaric. Do you share the view that refugees should not be returned to Libya, that this is contrary to the principle of non-refoulement? If so, to what extent are refugees currently being returned to that country with the support of the EU? And if the answer is yes, will you put an end to it? A third deal has been made with Afghanistan. People are being sent back to a country that is becoming increasingly violent, for which, in any case, a negative travel advice applies and which is increasingly being called for a stop-gap: the United Nations, Germany, Amnesty, you name it. This morning we received a petition from Haroon. He's also here. When he returns, he's not sure of his life. Meanwhile, the Dutch government is working on a new report on Afghanistan, to assess whether the country is safe or not. The fact that this is being worked on is actually enough. At the same time, the government will continue to evict. That's crooked. That is why I call for a halt to Afghanistan as long as that new policy is not yet in place. I'd like a response. I have a motion for that, too. Will the Secretary of State take these deals as an example for future agreements? How is he going to ensure that new deals are in line with international law? Which countries does the Cabinet intend to deal with? Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate in advance the human rights situation in the country with which we make a deal? Does he want to ask for independent legal advice on a possible new deal? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union and D66 have always fought with us for a generous children's pardon, but unfortunately the call of power was stronger than their principles. It is almost impossible to meet the working criterion. This way, the children's pardon is a dead letter. Does the government agree with me? Children born here are sent to a country where they've never been before. Exchanged for the government plush of D66 and ChristianUnion. No misunderstanding: some of these children's parents have gone through a process against their better judgment. But the kids aren't to blame for that. Then it is up to us to improve the system, which is countered without chance, and to invest in legal capacity. That is why legal aid is also important, but the government wants to cut back on that. How does the Secretary of State think this is going to shorten the duration of proceedings? How is this going to prevent the longer process? Finally, I offer a plan to distribute asylum seekers more fairly across the Netherlands. At the moment, we see poor municipalities taking in three times more asylum seekers than rich municipalities. We know the examples, like that of a villa area in Den Helder. There the residents of that neighborhood bought up a property intended for refugees, for status holders, preventing the arrival of those status holders. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. Didn't he find that shameless, too? With our plan we ask to look at the capacity of municipalities and not only to look at poor municipalities, but also to look at rich and also within those municipalities at the different neighbourhoods. We are also saying that small-scale reception should be provided so that the support is increased. That is what the cabinet says in the coalition agreement, so I think we can agree. The government also wants small-scale reception for asylum seekers. We also say: play on future influx, provide an emergency buffer in the shelter. The President-in-Office of the Council, with this I will end my speech. I would like to offer my proposal to the government. I also have copies for the colleagues. I also have Haroon's petition, which he offers on behalf of all Afghans in the Netherlands: 17,000 signatures in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u79	The SP pleads for the spread of asylum seekers, but when it comes to the SP way, there will soon be an asylum seekers' centre in every street in the Netherlands. When all the asylum and immigration records were broken in recent years, more migrants had to come from the SP. It wasn't enough. Does Mr Van Dijk realise that it is not about spreading asylum seekers in the Netherlands, but about stopping asylum seekers? Because the mass immigration, which is also, frankly, constantly being fueled by the SP, is disrupting our entire society. When does the SP realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mr President, when Members of Parliament repeat themselves, you always point them out. But not this time. Come on, I'll answer. This is Mr Fritsma's gray turned record. I made a nuanced argument just now. I had hoped you would say something about that, Mr Fritsma. The SP represents a realistic immigration policy. We can't take everyone in the Netherlands. There is no place for economic migrants. We want to provide a place for people in need who flee war and violence. We also do not want to send them back to countries that are clearly at war at the moment, such as Afghanistan. I think that's inhumane. I hope you will also support me if we say: do not send people back to me now. 'Cause you might literally send them to death.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u81	It is not just about words but also about what the SP does and has done. Once again, when all the asylum and immigration records were broken in recent years, the SP felt it necessary to say that more migrants had to be added, more partner and family migrants, more asylum seekers, more people for the general pardon and illegal immigrants also had to be taken care of. I am sorry to repeat myself, according to Mr Van Dijk, but that is the SP. I'm gonna ask you one more follow-up question. If you are talking about support, you should look at what is ruining the support of the Dutch. The Dutch can whistle to a social rental house. More than half of all welfare benefits go to non-Western immigrants. There's trouble, misery,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u82	That is what you said in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u83	... Islamization, people become strangers in their own country. If you say to stand up for the common Dutch people, that's what the SP often does, then you have to realize that the common Dutch people are only affected by mass immigration, which also stimulates the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u84	This has been discussed in detail in your contribution. Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u85	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I thought a dialogue was: someone asks a question, someone else answers and then the questioner answers. But I'm getting exactly the same talk. It's a monologue, with a malfunctioning megaphone. It's an old story. I can't add anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u87	And it doesn't add up. It's no good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr. Groothuizen. No, no, no, Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u89	With all due respect, this is not a substantive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u91	No, but it was also exactly the same question, Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u92	Which doesn't come up with an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u93	You're keeping a story that isn't based on anything. First of all, I gave you a proper answer, namely that the SP stands for a realistic asylum policy. There is no place for everyone in the Netherlands. Well, we do offer a place for people in need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u94	This too is repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u95	My story was based on motions from the SP...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. Fritsma, you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u97	... who indicated that only more migrants should come to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u98	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u99	Now I appeal to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u100	Yeah, I'm gonna end this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u101	I hear the exact same story three times now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr. Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mr Van Dijk's interesting speech on the spread of refugees. I recognize a lot of that in the coalition agreement. But does Mr Van Dijk not agree with me that it is much wiser to place people where they have a job perspective and a home instead of looking at what the income in a particular municipality is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u104	Very once, very once. Let us place refugees, status holders and asylum centres where there is perspective. If you read my report, I will offer it to you later, so you will see that the asylum centres are now mainly located in disadvantaged areas and that this distribution is uneven. This is also bad for the residents, who say: 'Hey, we are already having a hard time here and now there is also an asylum-seekers' centre; why can't we do that in the other neighbourhood?' No, but there are villa dwellers and they buy up that property and stop the arrival of refugees. I want to balance that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u105	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u106	I understand that, but then I conclude that Mr Van Dijk agrees that it is wiser for the rest and in a broader sense to see where people can get started, so it is wiser to place an asylum seeker from Syria with port experience near Rotterdam than in Southeast Drenthe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u107	Yes. I think you are bringing in a very real factor. I hope you will also look at the variables I bring in: fair distribution, not just in poor communities. I think we should agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you. You were done, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u110	I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66. Mr. Groothuizen. Mr. Groothuizen! You were distracted by Mr Verhoeven, I saw.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u111	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u112	You are distracted by Mr Verhoeven, I saw.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u113	I regret to admit that multitasking is indeed not my greatest quality. To put it straight: I will speak today about justice and asylum and migration, and Mr Verhoeven, who has just distracted me, about police, terrorism and everything that has to do with cybersecurity. Mr. Chairman. D66 wants people to be free to shape their own lives. A strong rule of law is the foundation for this that guarantees that the freedom of one ends where the freedom of the other begins. That state of law protects the rights of vulnerable individuals, victims of serious crime, for example, and protects us all from the arbitraryness of the state. Our rule of law is generally good for it. The Netherlands is high in all kinds of international rankings. That's good news, but no reason to sit back satisfied. There are a number of tough challenges. The budget treatment of the Ministry of Justice and Security, especially the department to enforce the law in the Netherlands, is therefore the place to consider the state and future of our rule of law. Mr. Chairman. Independent justice occupies a crucial place in our rule of law. People's confidence in our judges is unabated. But our society is changing and justice must be allowed to change with it. More and more questions are being asked as to whether our legal models are still in place. Doesn't it all take too long? Are not disputes unnecessarily stirred up instead of resolved? For example, in family law proceedings are usually initiated with an application from one party, answered by a defence from the other party. When applying for alimony, that process model, often called the tournament model, quickly stirs up the dispute. We need to see how we can do it differently and better. An experimental clause enables the case-law to temporarily try something else. Then if it works, we can put that into regulation. D66 welcomes the agreements we made in the coalition agreement on this matter. I would like to know from the Minister for Legal Protection when he comes to the Chamber with proposals to actually give justice that experimental space. Mr. Chairman. Here, at the same time, a critical remark fits with the government. Recently, I read an article about the courthouse in the north of our country. An interesting means of resolving disputes in a simple way. However, it is mainly administrative bodies that refuse to go that way. I read and hear that a lot. The government itself makes legal disputes and is not prepared to solve problems in any other way. I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice and Security whether he recognizes that problem and, if so, what he is going to do about it. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned it earlier: it is important that disputes are actually resolved. In mediation, attention is paid to this. Behind an assault sometimes there's a neighborhood fight. After that criminal case, people still have to live side by side. Mediation is then a good solution, so that we can make sure that people, victims and perpetrators can get back together after what happened. That is why D66, together with the Labour Party, will table an amendment to release EUR 1 million for mediation. In this way mediation in criminal law can be continued. I see Mr Van Nispen on the interrupting microphone, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u114	Me too. Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u115	It's great to have D66 back up for mediation in criminal law. We have always stood side by side on this subject. But you know very well: last year, EUR 1.5 million went to mediation in criminal law. This year, you will cut back on this by submitting a proposal for EUR 1 million. That seems like a small difference, but it matters a lot. That saves half the number of mediations, I have been told, because there is also a part of the organizational costs and so on. What justifies the halving of the number of mediations in criminal law for next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u116	There are two answers to that. The first is making political choices. If you have some wishes, you need to see what the space is for and what you can do. Sometimes this is just the outcome. But second: more importantly, we also have another organization that deals with mediation, which is more at the back of the trajectory. What I think we should be focusing on is that the back and the front are going to work together more so that we can achieve synergies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u117	I'm always in favour of synergy benefits. But that still does not justify halving the number of mediations in criminal law for next year, because that is quite different. Now I hear Mr Grothuizen say: politics is making choices. That is an incredible death doer, because it is true, but we have just heard Mr Van Dam say: after all these lean years there will be fat years now. We all know that there is money, including on the justice budget, but certainly outside. If there is EUR 1.4 billion to pay dividends to foreign shareholders and other tax administrations, why is there not, for example, EUR 1.5 million available for mediation in criminal law? My question to Mr Groothuizen is: are you going to support the amendment on the Disputes Committees on Consumer Affairs? Or do you leave the consumers in the cold? In short, what is more important, the foreign shareholders or the Dutch seekers of justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u118	Those are a lot of questions in one, but in essence it always comes down to something that Mr Van Nispen sees as a doer of death, namely that politics is a matter of making choices. There are a lot of things that matter. It is important that our locational climate is good and it is also important that we do mediation. Within the frameworks and budgets you have, you make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good legal system only has value if it is accessible to everyone. This concerns traditional access to an independent judge, but also access to information and the comprehensibility of our regulations. D66 notes with satisfaction that the coalition agreement agreed not to increase the registry fees. That's good for access to justice. It is also a good thing that no courts and courts are closed. Accessibility also means that a seeker of justice does not have to travel to the other side of the country to get his right. Neighborhood judges can also play an important role in this. Mr. Chairman. Good legal aid is also an important element for access to justice. Many reports have been written on this theme in recent years. It is clear that the system of subsidised legal aid needs to be reformed. It is very important that access to justice is maintained. Quality and affordability must be considered, but also the prevention of perverse incentives, such as cutting up things that could be better dealt with at once. I would like to know from the Minister whether he will take with him the changes in the criminal justice chain and the innovation in the justice system when he comes to think about the reform of legal aid. As far as I am concerned, these matters cannot be seen separately. I would also like to know from the Minister whether he agrees with the principles of access to justice, quality and affordability. Mr. Chairman. Part of the rule of law is also that there is an appropriate punishment if people do not comply with our rules. Particular attention should be paid to this, as far as I am concerned, to undermining crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u121	I have one more question about the previous point; I'm sorry, I'll be a little more alert next time. Access to legal aid is extremely important. It is not for nothing that we have been asked for an independent investigation: how do we proceed with the future of legal aid? Now there is a researcher who says that funding is not enough to guarantee future access. What do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u122	That's right, that's what the report says. I've read it too, but I've spent the last week trying to read all the reports. Then I see, and I can confirm that from my own practical experience, that there are a lot of problems in legal aid. There is a quality problem in some forms of the legal profession and there is the problem that people sometimes have legal aid insurance or are members of a trade union but do not use it and then apply for legal aid and get it. There's the problem that we keep suing endlessly. I told you, in family law, sometimes three or four things play a role that are cut up every time: the children, the alimony, the divorce of property. I don't think that's wise. That is what you need to work on, and I think that is the substantive reform of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u123	I hear a lot of procedural stuff in a row. The fact remains that if you want to maintain legal aid in the future, you will have to arrange something on the side of the legal profession, which must guarantee access. My question is: are you prepared, as your party did in the past, to stick your neck out for it? Or are you hiding behind further investigations, more reports and more processes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u124	You have just heard me say very clearly that access to justice is crucial and that legal aid plays an important role in this. Yesterday or the day before yesterday, the Minister wrote a letter saying that he would come to the Chamber with a proposal before the summer and that he would table with all the parties. Then we're gonna take a good look at that. I'm not waiting for any new tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Van Nispen, you've just been at this point, exactly the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u126	But this is another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u127	A whole other point? I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mediation and the Consumer Disputes Committees are quite different from subsidised legal aid, of course you know that. Mr Grothuizen is right to say that I am not waiting for all kinds of new investigations. No, that pile of tests is already there. Wolfsen, Barkhuysen, Van der Meer: we know them all. But the question to Mr Grothuizen is as follows. He is willing to look at improvements in the system, and so are the lawyers themselves, but is Mr Groothuizen's point of departure that it must necessarily be at lower costs, see the Legal Affairs Minister's budget, or is he prepared to put in place all these good proposals and then see how much it costs? Then we'll have the discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u129	I have heard Mr Van Nispen say earlier that savings are being made and that in September the pot is empty, but that is of course not the case at all, because it is an open-ended scheme. If the applications come in in September, they will simply be paid out. It's not going to cost less. But the agreement in the coalition agreement is that it has to be within the budgetary framework. We spend huge amounts of money on legal aid: EUR 400 million. We really need to make that system future-proof. We do that by looking at the substance of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u130	'Within the budgetary frameworks' means cuts in the coming years, because the budgetary frameworks are falling. That's the deal from the coalition agreement. But Mr Grothuizen's starting point is also that it has to be within these frameworks. The conclusion is therefore that there must and will be savings on social law. If you do not think that savings should be made, as in the past, when D66 always stood up for subsidised legal aid, then you should come up with proposals on how to improve the system. Then we'll see each other and see what it's gonna cost. Otherwise, the conclusion is that D66 is just going to cut down on legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u131	I leave Mr Van Nispen's conclusion to himself. I would point out that my colleague, Mr Berndsen, pointed out the importance of the system's affordability as early as 2013. It's under pressure. A system is sustainable only if it is consistent with its content and within certain budgets. You can't keep up with endless money. That's just impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u132	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u133	Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to undermining crime. The underworld sometimes tries to penetrate the upper world. The upper world sometimes facilitates the underworld. Through this mix-up, the authority is actually and morally undermined and our security deteriorates. As a former district attorney in Brabant, I know the problem up close, although I would warn you not to see it as an exclusive southern problem, because it is all over the Netherlands. The government agreement takes good steps to combat undermining crime. The removal of criminal property deserves special attention. It underlines the principle that crime should not pay, it hinders future investment in crime and it often hits the top of criminal organisations. But criminals aren't stupid. They are always looking for new ways to channel money away and becoming smart-ass in concealing their possessions. It is therefore important to invest primarily in knowledge, so that our investigation services and the Public Prosecutor have the right toolbox to address the problem. Undermining has many facets, but I want to highlight one today. This summer I was visiting a ranger in West Brabant. He suffered a lot of drug and waste dumping in his natural areas, in which water extraction is also carried out. The police didn't have the manpower to keep working on it. Often this man was on his own. However, it is important that everyone agrees that our natural areas remain clean and our drinking water is not polluted. Perhaps the undermining fund can play a role in this. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how he looks at this and whether he has any other ideas as to how this fund can be used. This cabinet is taking an historic step on a file that has been held for decades. The crooked policy of growing weed is not only D66, but also mayors, judges and coffee shop entrepreneurs have always been a thorn in the eye. D66 is therefore proud that this cabinet dares to take a first step with experiments to achieve regulated weed cultivation. I would like to hear from the Minister how he and his colleague from VWS are going to ensure that we can look forward to legislation in six months' time, as included in the coalition agreement. Another important issue is reintegration and rehabilitation of convicted persons. Punishment is a core part of a...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr President, I would like to ask a question on the previous point!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u135	Proceed, Mr. Grotehuizen. Let's finish this sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u136	Actually, I was starting a new life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u137	Well, you'd better wrap up the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u138	I am, of course, referring to your words, Mr President. Mr. Chairman. Re-integration and rehabilitation of convicts. Punishment is a core part of an effective legal system, as deterrent, as retaliation, but also as prevention of repetition. With only punishment, we're not here. The coalition agreement rightly states that resocialisation and parole are more firmly positioned. Recently, the report Van detineren to re-integrate, in which it is recommended to organise the reintegration policy in all prisons in such a way that all prisoners are screened directly upon entry under five basic conditions, namely the possession of a valid ID, accommodation after detention, income and debt relief. This does not mean that there should be a immediate reintegration plan for each of the prisoners, but that it should be considered whether that makes sense. I would like to ask the Minister to seriously examine these possibilities for early re-socialisation. Perhaps the Minister can take this research into account in his vision of the prison system to be presented, with which he arrives in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u139	Experiments with weed are really good, but I have a question. Municipalities say: now give us more room to deliver customized tests and not to do uniform tests, but to vary them, so that you can actually test them. My question to D66 is, will you pick up that glove?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u140	The agreement in the government agreement is that six to ten medium to large municipalities are being experimented with. For the rest, I think that the rulers should come to a proper conclusion of experiments that do justice to that agreement in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u141	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u142	I have also read the coalition agreement; thank you again for the explanation. But my question to you was another one. Municipalities say what they need from you to deal with the undermining. They say, "Do smart, give us customization and come to a good solution with us." My question to you, through the chairman, is: are you prepared to pick up that glove and ask the cabinet to deliver that customization? I think we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u143	Doing things smart always seems wise to me, but for the rest I leave the experiments to the Ministers of Justice and VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u144	You will continue your speech. The emotions are high in the room, I see. Did everyone wake up? Please continue, Mr Grotehuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr. Chairman. I will continue on the subject of asylum and foreign policy. We all remember the images of the refugee peak in 2015. Local drivers had to urgently wipe out gymnasiums to arrange sufficient shelters for the many fled Syrians. As a Nijmegenaar I remember Camp Heumensoord, which offered place to over 3,000 people. Refugee families were dragged from emergency shelter to crisis shelter to azc. Kids were constantly taken out of their classroom, on to the next location. It led to chaos and uncertainty among asylum seekers, but also among those living nearby. It was devastating for the support base and devastating for integration. Sometimes people had to wait months for their procedure without being able to work and without learning the language. Mr. Chairman. At the time, the Netherlands was not prepared for this asylum influx. All the services and local drivers have nevertheless ensured that no one has ever had to sleep on the street. But it was clear that this had to be different. I am therefore pleased that this cabinet is going to focus on a better, more progressive and more flexible asylum system. This means: language lessons starting from day one, small-scale reception, starting immediately with integration, taking into account work qualifications and a local job offer. No more dragging asylum seekers and no more unnecessary moves for children. This is better for support and better for integration. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he's going to realize these plans. Can he give us a concrete answer yet? Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to draw attention to a specific group of asylum seekers, namely those who have had to flee because they could not be themselves in their own country, sometimes because of their sexual orientation, sometimes because of their religious background. The Netherlands, with its open, liberal attitude and its room for religious freedom, must be able to accommodate these people well. As a representative of the people, I sometimes get signals of concerns from those concerned that the assessment of asylum applications is not sufficiently careful. It is very important that the assessment of this vulnerable group is carried out as carefully as possible. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to consider how this assessment could be further improved. I'd like to hear how he looks at that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the European asylum policy. My group considers it very important that a functioning common European asylum system should be put in place quickly. Joint external borders call for common policies. Is the Secretary of State prepared to put pressure on his colleagues in Brussels? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet wants to focus on agreements with third countries when it comes to migration. This is a geopolitical reality, in which the cabinet lays down strict conditions. These third countries must meet the conditions of the Refugee Convention in a material manner, and the non-refoulement principle is guiding. My question to the Secretary of State is when he talks with his European partners about how to deal with these agreements. How is he going to keep the Chamber informed as far as possible about the implementation of these agreements, so that we can have sufficient control over the international legal conditions we have imposed? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the situation in Lesbos and Afghanistan. The situation in Greece is still not in order. For example, I'm looking at Camp Moria, where people are stuck under horrible conditions. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what the cabinet is doing to improve the situation there and to fully comply with the relocation arrangements. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Afghanistan. A number of people have already asked questions about this. I'd like to join in on that. How does the Secretary of State view the situation in Afghanistan? And does he see any reason to change his policy towards that country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u146	Who was the first? Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u147	We have agreed; that always goes very smoothly with Mr Van Ojik. Mr Groothuizen rightly asks the cabinet about Afghanistan. You already feel it coming; I am asking you this question, of course. We already know that the cabinet is working on a new post. Do you agree with me that it is actually clear that things are not going well in Afghanistan, that this means that we should be very cautious about the expulsion of Afghans and that suspension of the expulsion policy would actually be justified?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u148	I don't know about that. I read that Germany suspended the expulsion for a while in the summer, but I also read that it has resumed it. So that's another signal pointing in the opposite direction. For the rest, I do know that the IND always makes an individual assessment of whether it is really safe for that person to go back to Afghanistan. We all know that Afghanistan also has a erratic course. One area is not the other and one situation is not the other. I therefore assume that the IND always looks carefully at this; I think we can ask the IND to do the same. For the rest, I think it would be very good for the Secretary of State to respond to the concerns that are widespread about Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u149	That's actually a bit of an answer that we can go all over. I very much agree that the situation in Afghanistan is changing. I think there is a tendency towards more violence, attacks and influence from the Taliban. If the cabinet says it is going to look at this again, I very much agree with that, then it is right that we, as a Chamber, should also say: until then, until the new message of office arrives, look very well at expulsions. Doesn't that make sense for us to ask as a room? Can I count on your support in that regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u150	I think I've already answered that question. I think you should take a good look at that, but I do not think that, if you let something be looked at, you should automatically suspend all your standing policies, especially if I note at the same time that, for example, a country such as Germany, which apparently has made a pass on the spot for a while, has yet again seen reason to resume its expulsions. Then I find the situation complex and I find it too steep to say that you have to stop doing so by definition, but of course you have to take a critical look at it. The IND will have to make that assessment on a case-by-case basis: can this expulsion be carried out safely or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u151	This morning I had a little debate with Mr Azmani about his plan and the extent to which it contributed to the Turkey deal, but also the extent to which it led the coalition agreement. Mr Azmani made that clear. He said, as far as I am concerned, that this is the government's commitment so that no one in Europe can apply for asylum. Mr Groothuizen also spoke about European asylum policy. I would like to ask him if that is his commitment as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u152	I am glad that Mr Van Ojik is asking that question, because I find that there is occasional confusion. I think it would be a good idea to re-explain the agreements in the coalition agreement. It agreed that agreements could be reached with third countries, migration agreements, if they met a number of conditions. The first condition is that it is a safe country. The second condition is that the country complies with the Refugee Convention and that people cannot be deported to another safe country. Another important condition is that there is a working asylum procedure through the UNHCR or from that country itself. Only then can these migration agreements be concluded. This will allow people from that region to apply for asylum, but that will of course only apply to that region. It is not that, if you fly from Minsk to Amsterdam to apply for asylum here because you want to escape that scary regime of Lukashenko, you will then be sent to Tunisia to submit your asylum application.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u153	So people from Europe can still apply for asylum in Europe. That is entirely in line with the Azmani plan, the VVD plan or the Samsom plan. People from Africa can no longer apply for asylum in Africa. Can the Ihbti people, both of whom we are very concerned about and who need to be screened more carefully here, not apply for asylum here anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u154	No, that's an incorrect conclusion. I am glad that you are asking that question because I can clarify that misunderstanding. It is true that when these migration agreements are concluded and the asylum procedure is in place, for people who are still coming to Europe, a brief procedure will be used to see whether someone is covered by that deal and whether there are particular reasons why that person, for example that Ugandan gay, is not safe in Tunisia. That's all in the coalition agreement. So that Ugandan gay can still apply for asylum here under conditions if that shelter in that third safe country doesn't meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u155	A brief intermezzo, a question to Mr Groothuizen about the legal aid financed. Because I'm reading a wonderful interview. My question is, who is this interview with? It says: "D66 considers it particularly important that accessible access to justice is preserved for everyone. That's how D66 wants to keep the Legal Loket. The government is cutting back on this and this alternative is in danger of falling. Dispute committees have added value for access to justice. D66 also wants the quality of legal aid to be monitored."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u156	No, no, don't read the whole interview. What interview is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u157	Anyone who answers here is my question to Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u158	Mr. Groothuizen, do you recognize this interview?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u159	It will undoubtedly have been an interview with me if Mr Azarkan puts it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u160	What's changed? What happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u161	Little has changed. I just explained how we look at legal aid. Access to justice is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u162	It is a question of abolishing the Disputes Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u163	Access to justice is essential and the Disputes Committee is part of it, Mr. Azarkan. Look, you have to see it in a broader context, of course. There are a lot of ways people can resolve their differences. The classic way is to go to court and then get a solution; I've talked about it quite extensively. We also note with each other that this does not always go well. We are now going to look into the coalition agreement to see how we can do that. You've got litigation committees, you've got mediation, you've got neighborhood judges, there's all kinds of options. I didn't marry much of a specific instrument. I am concerned that people always have access to a place where their dispute can be tried independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u164	Finally, this question has just been asked by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u165	No, that was with a previous speaker. I checked with Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u166	That's fine. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u167	This is just, to put it in Dutch, a bullshit story. You yourself say in the interview that the handling of disputes committees is very important. That's low-threshold, that's what you say. This also indicates that we can thus relieve our other forms of law. Now you say: I come up with a broad story, it was less important, we can do it in many ways. You just don't live up to your word. That's what I'm noticing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u168	I will leave that qualification on Mr Azarkan's behalf. I note that in the coalition agreement, and also in my story, there are all kinds of elements that allow us to work on access to justice: neighborhood judges, mediation, just classical access, the judge of the court. That is what this is about: giving people access to justice in an adequate way. Then it may well be that you choose one instrument and not the other. I don't think it's wise to be married to instruments. I think you should focus on the ultimate goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u169	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u170	Mr. Chairman. Following on from my colleague, Mr Groothuizen, I deal with three more issues: combating terrorism, the police and, of course, cybersecurity. I'm starting counter-terrorism. Terror attacks continue worldwide and the threat remains real in the Netherlands as well. For D66, an effective terrorist approach is central, with freedom and security in balance. This cabinet is making more money available for the fight against terrorism. As far as D66 is concerned, we focus on the district agent, we focus on antiradicalisation and local cooperation, as well as a firm approach to returners that we have to deal with more because of the decline of IS; see also the recent incident of the IS fighter in De Balie which we have already discussed this morning. Can the Minister explain how he is going to use the extra resources for counter-terrorism and what his policy on returners is going to be? Does he agree with me that these people should be tracked down and tried for the acts of terror they have committed? Then there's my second part: the police. During the reorganisation, the police experienced a turbulent time. It was a renovation where the store had to stay open of course. In the meantime we are on the right track, but for D66 there are still the following important points of interest. First of all, that is a more diverse police force, in the broadest sense of the word. It is essential that the police, the largest public employer in the Netherlands, is a good reflection of Dutch society. Secondly, this is a professionalisation of the organisation and training, so that the police can also come along with, for example, technological development and innovation. Thirdly, this is better cooperation within the security chain to deal with challenges such as cybercrime, fraud and cross-border crime. And finally, this is a clear explanation of the extra budget that this cabinet makes available to the police. That extra money is very much needed. It's nice that it's taken care of. D66 likes to hear from the Minister how he intends to use that budget. I refer in particular to the training of new agents at all levels. Job vacancies are not self-fulfilled and a thorough training is of course necessary. I would particularly like to hear a response on that point. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to cyber security in our country. Mrs Van Toorenburg said it very well this morning. Our society is digitizing at a rapid pace. This offers many opportunities, but it also means that the security of digital technology is becoming increasingly important. So there are risks, too. That is why I am very pleased that this coalition agreement is full of ambitious plans to increase our cyber security. For example, there are security standards for devices connected to the Internet, the Internet of Things; we often talk about them. Through software liability, companies are encouraged to make safe software. The National Cyber Security Centre, the NCSC, is strengthened. Digital skills become an integral part of the children's curriculum. We improve information campaigns for the safe use of the Internet. It also invests 95 million extra in cyber security in the various ministries. In short, a broad and ambitious approach. D66 is very happy about that. I do have a few questions. Is cyber security also a top priority for this minister? I can see from his smile that it is actually asking for the familiar way and that the answer to that is, of course, 'yes', but I would like to hear him say it tomorrow. Is the Minister prepared to send a letter to the Chamber in which he gives a clear view on cybersecurity and explains how and when he will implement the various points in the coalition agreement? How does the Minister see his coordinating role vis-à-vis colleagues who also need to work with cybersecurity? Mr. Chairman. Another point in the coalition agreement is the fact that the cabinet wants to stimulate the investigation into cybersecurity. A number of professors raised the alarm last week: talented researchers leave for Germany, France, the United Kingdom and other countries because they invest more in cybersecurity research. That is, of course, dangerous, because it causes us to lose a great deal of talent, which is what we need and want to preserve for our cybersecurity position. This applies to research, but also to safety itself. We just need extra professionals, for example at the AIVD, at the Defense Department, at the police and at our companies. D66 therefore wants to invest extra in cybersecurity research, but we prefer to see this brought together in one research institute. We are thinking of a cybersecurity research institute that combines fundamental and applied research and that can attract both public and private funds. In this way, we can continue to lead the way in Europe as a digital leader in the field of key technology for the future. Is the Minister prepared to look with his colleagues in Economic Affairs and Education at the possibility for a cybersecurity research institute? I'd like to hear a response. Mr. Chairman. Another point is about encryption, about data encryption. Very important. I have tabled an amendment aimed at investing €410,000 in so-called open-source encryption projects. Encryption is crucial for secure communication, for internet banking. It is used by millions of websites, mail services and phone applications that we use every day. In any case, we are doing so without giving any thought to it. It is very important for our society. However, this crucial software is too often created by a number of volunteers and technicians who depend on donations. So that's why D66 seems like a good idea that these people can also call on government budget. We have tabled this amendment, which I hope I can do together with my colleague from the Labour Party, Mrs Kuik. I hope, in any case, that the Minister is prepared to support and implement this amendment. My final point is about privacy. Some parties think privacy is a dirty word, but for D66, privacy means nothing but freedom, freedom of the individual. With that, monitoring our privacy is also in D66's DNA. I say to Mr Koopmans that I am not only talking about horizontal privacy but also about vertical privacy, so the relationship between companies, governments and citizens. I am pleased that the Dutch Data Protection Authority has been given an additional budget to protect our privacy. My question to the Minister is whether the authority with this extra money has sufficient budget to provide good information and to be able to think with entrepreneurs about the new European privacy rules, the GDPR, the general data regulation, which will be maintained as of next May and which has already entered into force. In the case of new technologies, but also in the case of new powers, we often see that more and more privacy is being taken away step by step. If it offers concrete safety benefits, it does not have to be problematic, but if powers do not have the promised effect, they are almost never reversed. Then, as it were, they will continue to exist, so they will not be used. For example, it turned out that fingerprints in the passport are never checked. Does the Minister agree with me that if a power is not used or has little or no effect, then we need to see whether that power can be reversed, especially if it also costs tens of millions of euros? Is the Minister also prepared to see if there are any more powers on the shelf that we have ever given without being used? I'd like a response. Mr President, I shall leave it at that, eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u171	Nice. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u172	Thank you, Madam President. A passionate plea from D66 for more privacy. That's what we find ourselves on each other's side. That is probably why the government agreement states in the Intelligence and Security Services Act that it should not be a drag law and that an evaluation should be carried out. What I do not understand very well is that this is a great satisfaction for D66, where a similar motion earlier in the handling of the Intelligence and Security Services Act led to D66's sigh that it does not offer any guarantee of privacy. How do you look at how a motion or a coalition agreement also offers guarantees for the use or non-application of a tow law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u173	Two weeks ago, we discussed the internal affairs budget with the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Ollongren, who is responsible for the implementation of the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Then I received a question from your colleague, Mr Özütok, and I said to her that I am very happy with the guarantees in the coalition agreement because I think that the coalition agreement is very clear: there will, can and should not be a dragnet. So there will be no massive and random tapping. We will investigate that independently within two years by an independent committee. If it turns out that there is that effect that D66 absolutely doesn't want, then it's just in the coalition agreement that we'll change the law. I think that is a much greater and harder guarantee than the motion that was tabled during that debate, because I myself, as a D66 Member, have now made sure that the government agreement with four parties has agreed that we are not going to do so. So that's another situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u174	It is good that Mr Verhoeven reminds me of that debate. He said that he had great faith in the Minister and that, with it, rights would not be violated and privacy would continue to be guaranteed. The problem is, of course, that if it depends on the Minister, the right to privacy may be at risk in the case of another minister. For me, therefore, I find it strange that an earlier guarantee through a motion by D66 was perceived as completely inadequate but that the guarantee through a government agreement can suddenly count on a lot of hurray. But that's an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u175	This discussion has taken place extensively in the discussion of the Home Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u176	That's right. In conclusion, I can only say that I have a great deal of confidence in this cabinet and in the Minister for the Interior in order to maintain the agreements of the government agreement. We are not going to do it ourselves, but an independent committee is going to evaluate it after two years. If it turns out that there are things we both don't want...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u177	That's what you said. This is a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u178	Mrs Buitenweg comes up with that question. Two weeks ago, that was Mrs Özütok and in two weeks' time another member of GroenLinks will be present at the interrupting microphone. Then I'd better be clear in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u179	That's obvious, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u180	Then we're gonna change the law. That is an important change in relation to the motion, because it did not mention the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u181	I do not want to put a repeat question to Mr Verhoeven, but I would like to ask him a rhetorical question, namely: does he not agree with me that the extension of the role of the Dutch Data Protection Authority Mr Verhoeven was just talking about this: the authority will get a lot more budget over the next few years should also mean that ordinary Dutch and ordinary Dutch companies will be helped by that authority to implement privacy? Hasn't it become too much just a watchdog?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u182	The watchdog function is most important to me. In this country, we need a supervisor, a watchdog, who really ensures that both the government and all kinds of companies do not take ever more of the privacy and personal protection of Dutch people. I think he's a good watchdog. It has been given more tasks and therefore more budget. But I do agree with the CDA that it should also be absolutely possible, for example, to ensure in European legislation that small and medium-sized enterprises should not follow all kinds of new rules that are complicated. It would be good if that authority would also help to ensure that companies with good intentions know where they stand and can comply with European legislation, assisted by an independent regulator that helps businesses as well as protects citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u183	Mr Van Dam, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u184	I am pleased to hear that Mr Verhoeven appreciates the concept of rhetorical question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u185	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. Or would you like to respond to this compliment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u186	I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Chicken of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u187	I call Mrs Kuiken on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Safe on the street, even after sunset. Make sure your daughter gets home safe. I'm sure the police will help you if things go wrong. You can get justice if there's a conflict. That offenders do not escape their punishment at the time of violence. If all this is not self-evident, confidence in each other, in the legal system and in the government will stagnate. That's something we don't want with each other. You can only feel safe on the street if there are enough police available. Despite a major reorganisation of the national police force, it is not certain that it has actually become safer. The lack of police officers and detectives is too great to deal with organised crime. The cabinet is paying out more money, and I welcome that, but it is not yet sufficiently clear whether it will prove sufficient. There's a lot of trouble. In many neighbourhoods in our country daily life has become interwoven with forms of organised crime. Running a barber shop isn't meant to cut hair, it's meant to tip weed. It's a very normal side job. An empty attic is seen as a sin and must be commercialized. Around schools is dealt and recruited on a large scale, and increasingly brutal. The main players are hard guys, scaffolders and runaways and on the other hand people who simply try to keep their heads above water. The feeling of going for it together on the street is getting worse. That's why people don't feel at home in their own neighborhood anymore. There is also a society that thinks: we will solve it ourselves, we do not need that government. It is therefore necessary to give the best possible support to the leaders of our cities, our municipalities, to reduce organised crime and to get the feeling that 'the street is all of us and all of us together' back. The cabinet announces a number of measures and we can only support them. But it's gonna take more than that. Our mayors need strong weapons to take back the street. They know what works and what it takes. As a result, I have a crucial question: why doesn't the cabinet choose to rig the weed test together with municipalities? Why does it have to be uniform? If you take the drivers, the mayors, so seriously, take them seriously. That's a very simple request. My request to the cabinet is to indicate how it looks at this. Mr. Chairman. Anyone who becomes a victim of a crime must be sure that the police report is taken seriously and that the police have sufficient capacity and knowledge to help victims. Of course, I trust the intent of the police. No one will doubt that, but there is still a great deal going on in the field of violence, sexual violence and vice. Take the victim in the Hoorn vice case. It has now been recognised that major mistakes have been made, but still many questions remain unanswered. It's still unclear why the victim wasn't immediately taken seriously. Wasn't she fur and blue enough? What made her not believe right away? And everything happened while the parole officer immediately took action. Camera footage was allowed to be read and an unsub was allowed to be arrested, but none of that happened. The request to proceed to a neighborhood investigation has also not been complied with. The most absurd thing is that the victim himself had to go after her killer. Isn't that something we can't talk about in our country? We shouldn't want to accept that. I really want a response from the Minister on this matter. We have also asked questions about it in Parliament. Mr. Chairman. But this victim isn't on his own. More e-mails and messages arrive at the hotline. Young girls report to us and say they weren't taken seriously by the police. GD employees report that they often encounter girls who have been sent away by the police. We are also facing other individual cases in which there are multiple victims of one offender. And even then, the police say, "No, we don't think we can do anything with your case. I'm sending you home." I don't think anyone in this house would want that. My simple request is therefore: is the cabinet prepared to conduct a national investigation into the reports of victims of sexual abuse? How were they treated? How is it rolled out nationwide? Is there sufficient knowledge and expertise? I ask for a simple investigation so that we can see what actions we can take to improve this with each other. I'm hoping for a positive response. I will also table a motion to that effect. Mr. Chairman. Sexual violence is horrible. Sexual abuse of children is, if possible, even more gruesome. It's something you don't even want to think about as a parent. If the perpetrators of child pornography and abuse have been tracked down, then you also want the footage of those children to disappear from the Internet. Those images should no longer be available and there is a technique available to detect, remove and inform victims. But it's gonna take money. That is why I think it is extremely good that my colleague Van Nispen from the SP, together with us and a number of other colleagues, has tabled an amendment to that effect. The purpose of this is to enable the technique to detect these images. I hope for a positive opinion from the cabinet, and I am actually counting on it. Mr. Chairman. I told you, every parent's biggest fear is that your child doesn't come home safe. That is why we must also be sure that psychologically disturbed criminals are kept off the streets and cannot go wrong again. These kinds of people, even if they don't cooperate in psychiatric research, should be able to get tbs imposed. Michael P., the only suspect in Anne Faber's murder, is a poignant example of this. He's been convicted before in a rape case, but he didn't cooperate in psychiatric examination, got no TBs and got out. We must prevent this from happening again. That is why I proposed to Mr van Oosten of the VVD that judges should be allowed to impose TBs two years after the imposition of the prison sentence. In those two years, a criminal can't hide. You can't say you're not cooperating in research; you're just being observed. Those two years may just be enough for a judge to say, on the basis of a psychologist's or prison director's assessment, in one case: I had a suspicion that I should impose TBs here, because he already has that authority, but now I am confirmed in my suspicion that I should actually do so. Mr President, there are still some hooks and eyes on it, but we really think it can be done. We didn't make it up ourselves; former judges have been thinking along with us about this proposal. I would therefore like to ask the cabinet, through the President, to take this proposal very seriously and see how we can achieve it. That's in the best interest of all of us. Then we can be sure that we don't leave these people on the streets unauthorized. As a follow-up, I would like to join with the questions that have been asked and comments made by Mr Van Toorenburg on the gap between prison, have not yet been dealt with and psychiatric institution. There's a problem. I don't really care how we solve it. We've been talking about it for ten years. I had my colleague Lea Bouwmeester on the phone yesterday. What are we gonna do now? We have to be able to do this together and we have to want to solve it. We have been talking about legal aid in various interruptions for a while. The law must serve all of us, not just those who can afford it. If you are going to fight a legal battle, which no one wants, then you must also be sure that you can get legal aid and that there is a lawyer available to defend your right. The latter is particularly crucial, according to the Van der Meer report. I know that money is always scarce. However, we must take this kind of report seriously and the way they warn us about access rights. A lot of critical questions have already been asked about this, and I am happy to endorse that. Interesting comments have also been made by Mr Groothuizen of D66, among others, on mediation in criminal law. I would have liked to have seen a little more money for that, I agree with Mr Van Nispen. Nevertheless, I hope that this money will again help to provide mediation in criminal law with the necessary support, precisely because it has proved to be so successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u189	Nice words from colleague Chicken. I have learned from a reliable source that the money made available by the Chamber last year on the initiative of the Labour Party and that because of the political hassle was made available very late, has not gone all the way. The half million euros that we are missing for next year would be possible over this year. Would it be interesting to ask the government, and that is not quite the way the rules are; it is all technical and complicated to be able to bring that budget to next year? In doing so, we can make the D66 proposal and the PvdA proposal, which is actually about too little money, a full proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u190	So you're actually asking a question to the cabinet through Mrs. Kuik?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u191	Yes. I am very interested to hear Mrs Kuik's opinion on this, because it is also about her amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u192	Mr President, I did not know this, so I am very pleased with this question. I think it's an excellent suggestion. I also think it's possible, because every department always has a little space to transfer money left behind to next year. So it also fits within the system. It seems to me to be an excellent proposal. I would like to pass on the question to the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two brief points. A number of questions about discrimination within the police were rightly asked by GroenLinks' colleague. I found it brave of colleagues that they have shown that discrimination within the police is unfortunately a fact. I also thought Mr Akerboom's reaction was very good, but my question is how we can jointly ensure that this cultural change takes shape. Finally, asylum. My main point in that regard is this. I know there's gonna be a new country report on Afghanistan. That must be achieved in the short term. Can we suspend evictions there until then? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u194	Madam President, thank you very much for the floor. Law is more than just a system of laws. It creates trust between people who don't know each other and peace in society. These rulers are responsible for the law and justice in our country. That sounds abstract, but it is becoming very concrete in the issues that are being discussed today, for example the undermining crime, which is accompanied by violence, threats and intimidation of citizens and administrators. Previous speakers have already asked questions about the elaboration of the undermining law and the undermining fund from the coalition agreement. I am happy to endorse that, because security is also a form of justice and justice, and very important in people's daily lives. The Christian Union is therefore very pleased with the extra money for the police. In addition, prevention is also necessary, for example in the prevention of fighting divorces, also in order to prevent damage to children. Finally, justice and justice for the Christian Union also include the chance of rehabilitation and the work on recovery. I would like to hear from the rulers their views, from which they will work over the coming years of their responsibility for justice and justice. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have already been asked about the fight against terrorism. I would like to add the question of how the Minister intends to work out the intention that money flows from non-free countries should be reduced as much as possible. I would like to draw particular attention today to four issues that are of particular concern to us: the neighbourhood judge, the approach to trafficking in human beings, mental support to the police and the return to society after detention. Mr. Chairman. Justice is more than dispute resolution; it is about restoring relations or solving underlying problems. That is why the Christian Union is very pleased with the experiments with the district court, which have been given a place in the coalition agreement. We've been arguing for that for a long time. Under the current legislation, it is already possible, on the condition that both parties agree, to follow a simple, quick and inexpensive procedure. For example, in Brabant and Utrecht experience is acquired with the neighbor's judge, who helps neighbors find a sustainable solution to a conflict, and in the North of the Netherlands we know the court judge, where citizens and businesses can quickly get to the court's office. The judge first tries to find a solution with a good conversation and only decides if that does not succeed what is really necessary to do. These experiences show that there is a need for an experimental provision in the law, in order to broaden the scope for this. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we must get to work quickly on the experiments, both with the district judge and with the debtor, who will deal with the debtor's cases in conjunction. I would like to hear from the Minister for Legal Protection how he intends to shape this and what the timetable of the legislative process looks like. This really is a wonderful opportunity for innovation in justice. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is very pleased with the commitment in the government agreement to the fight against trafficking in human beings and illegal prostitution. A first result of this was already seen last Friday, when extra money became available for exit programs for prostitutes. But there's more in the coalition agreement. For example, there is investment in international investigation and in the regional Prostitution Control Teams. The government agreement for next year has already earmarked EUR 4 million for the reception of victims of trafficking in human beings. That extra money should end up in the search and enforcement next year, but also in healthcare providers such as Fier, the Salvation Army and others. Yesterday we received a letter with a plan of action for the first quarter. I look forward to it. But can we wait so long with the money that 2018 should be in place? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. The Minister and the Secretary of State will be happy to provide me with a precise booklet of legislation and investment in dealing with trafficking in human beings. What steps will the rulers take and what timetable does this include? Mr. Chairman. Trafficking in human beings is a hugely profitable criminal activity. Men and women are exploited and abused to make big money from it. That is why we were shocked by the report that 95% of the municipalities would not have a policy when it comes to trafficking in human beings. I encourage the Secretary of State to continue the conversation with the municipalities, such as with the aldermen of the 35 center municipalities for women's care. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Mr. Chairman. I want to express my appreciation for our policemen. Every day they work with heart and soul to ensure our safety and experience dramatic events. An agent who was on duty in 2011 during a shooting in Baflo that also killed a colleague of his, described in a letter to me the impact that that event had on him and within his team. In this crisis, there was a Team Collegiate Reception, a corporate social worker, a psychologist and a mental caretaker for the unit. There was room for processing and reflection, and that was badly needed. Space for questions I have done well, and what is good? For thoughts about fear of your own life, for intrusive questions about life and death, good and evil, obedience and responsibility. It is therefore important to provide adequate care, including mental support. Ten years ago it was agreed that there would be a professional provision for this, but that has not yet come to fruition. I find that difficult to understand, because our policemen work with heart and soul and meaning is inextricably linked to their work. With the national police, there is now the possibility of creating this in a uniform way. That is necessary. That is why today, together with Mr Van Dam, I am tabling an amendment aimed at making enough people available for this work of mental support to the police, to support units in terms of meaning issues and in situations of acute care and distress. I would like to hear from the Minister how he looks at this and whether he is prepared to send a letter to the Chamber in the short term with a plan of how he intends to shape it. Mr. Chairman. Social work, victim support and psychological support have been in place for years. However, a relatively large part of the force is at home with PTSD complaints. That's what we're worried about. I would like to join the previous speakers who have drawn attention to this. I'm gonna ask the Minister how he's gonna handle this. I would also like to draw attention to the use of volunteers in police and fire brigades. The number of volunteers is under pressure. What possibilities does the Minister see to maintain the commitment of volunteers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u195	In the past, Mr Van der Staaij, among others, has also called for attention to be paid to sense and mental care in the police. I understand that there will now be another motion from the Christian Union and CDA side. Is the scope of this motion about the elaboration of the letters we have had in recent years following the Van der Staaij motion, or does the Christian Union and CDA propose something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u196	This goes back to agreements that were given a place in collective bargaining ten years ago, namely that there should be room for mental care in the police. That's been quiet for a really long time. The motions to which you refer have given an impetus, though some progress has been made, but this really needs to be made even better and more concrete. In the amendment we are tabling, we are making two tonnes available for this purpose. You can see this as a further step in initiatives from the Chamber that have already been put in place, and in which the Christian Union was also involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u197	Sure, it said "c.s." Behind that name. That's right. Then I am reassured, because I was afraid that there would be another new initiative which would go against an initiative that was already being launched. Fortunately, that is not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u198	You can rest assured. I've done a lot of pre-work for this and there's a need for more commitment to mental support in the police. I hope, of course, for your support. Mr. Chairman. After serving a sentence, people must be able to return to society. The Christian Union is very pleased with the commitment in the coalition agreement to position resocialisation more firmly. In this light, I ask the Minister how he assesses the Council's opinions on criminal law. Not only will there be investment in professionals, but there will also be more attention and space for volunteering. Organisations such as Prisoner Care The Netherlands and Exodus are having recovery talks, helping to find work and put the administration in order and visiting the family members of prisoners. This contributes to a successful return to society and should prevent them from making another mistake. In order to give this more concrete form, the Christian Union, together with the SGP and the CDA, is today tabling an amendment to make the extra money really beneficial to the work of these voluntary organisations. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. There is a great responsibility on these leaders to work on justice and justice and thus to serve peace in society. I wish them every success and I look forward to working together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u199	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be responsible for the part on migration and asylum on behalf of the Christian Union. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet represents an effective, but also dignified, asylum and migration policy. The coalition agreement therefore sets out the framework for this. Agreements with safe third countries can and are also necessary to stop uncontrolled influx of people and drownings into the Mediterranean, but these are covered by the Refugee Convention. Furthermore, the cabinet will focus on a better and faster integration path, language lessons starting from day one, good bed-bath bread facilities and a good guidance scheme, small-scale care, in principle no relocations for families with children and an increase in the number of resettlements of refugees. These are important benefits of this coalition agreement, but that does not mean that we would no longer have any worries. I shall now list a number of these concerns. First of all, I refer to legal aid. If the lawyer disappears from the first stage of the eight-day procedure, volunteers will have to jump in. Then an organisation such as Refugee Work should also receive additional resources for this. If the lawyer does not come into the picture until a refusal is made, he should not be allowed one more day to prepare the view. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for preparing the asylum seeker for a rejection plan? I am considering a motion on this point. Previous colleagues have also spoken extensively about the security situation in Afghanistan. We have heard that the UN Security Council is no longer talking about a conflict country, but about a war country. The UN is also talking about a 20% increase in the number of wounded. There are 69,000 wounded by now. The situation is deteriorating. That is what we heard yesterday during the technical briefing on the mission in Afghanistan. Is the Secretary of State prepared to have an accelerated security analysis carried out by the Foreign Office and to investigate whether it is indeed safe enough to send people back to Afghanistan? Is he also willing to be reluctant to evict until then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u201	Good thing Mr Voordewind is asking. I would ask him to explain what he means by'resisting', because that can also lead to expulsions being carried out, while Mr Voordewind and the undersigned do not agree at all. Does he recognize that? And shouldn't we push it a little harder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u202	I just mentioned the shocking figures we received from the UN. Amnesty has also published a report on this subject. I would point out that we should get a security analysis from the State Department as soon as possible. I understand that this can also be done quickly, that it will be possible at the beginning of next year. I'm asking the Secretary of State to be restrained in the meantime. We are told by the UN that the situation is deteriorating. Those UN reports are also involved in our own security analyses. That means that I assume that no masses will go to Afghanistan now either. In the past, there was a moratorium on Afghanistan. That has now been lifted; some of them are going that way, I understand. But I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction. How does he think he's gonna handle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u203	There won't be masses going back, but there are people under heavy pressure. This morning, Haroon presented a petition on behalf of many Afghans who are in danger of being deported in the short term. The new notice, which will not be published until next year, would be too late. Does Mr Voordewind accept that? Or does he agree with me that we should ask the government to take action this week not to let that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u204	I ask Mr Van Dijk to await the reaction of the Secretary of State. Maybe we can come back to this in the second term. I'm also waiting for the Secretary of State's response. I assume he's seen the same reports from the UN. Let's talk again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u205	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u206	Mr President, I will move on quickly, because time is ticking. I'm afraid the children's pardon hasn't been extended. The Christian Union and D66 have worked for this. Now that this is the case and now that the regulation still exists, I ask the Secretary of State what the possibilities are in the existing framework of the children's pardon to deal with it in all reasonable terms. Then the resettlements. Is the Netherlands prepared to take a proportionate share of the European Commission's offer to resettle 50,000 people through UNHCR? Is that separate from the Dutch share from Turkey and also separate from the real location from Greece and Italy? I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction on that point. Then there are the number of source countries and the situation of the converts and the IBTs. People can get the death penalty if they're converted and have to go back to Iran. Can the Secretary of State look at the situation of converts and debts and improve assessments? Finally, the shelter on Lesbos. I agree with Mr Maarten Groothuizen. Are the delays in dealing with family reunification applications now being resolved as quickly as possible? Rounding up. A new cabinet with a new coalition agreement, the Christian Union has more confidence in that than before. I therefore wish the new Secretary of State all the wisdom in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u207	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Before I give the floor to Mr Krol, I shall suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u208	I call Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u209	Mr. Chairman. This new Minister of Justice and Security has a difficult legacy, but 50PLUS appreciates him. He's the example of the outstretched hand. As one of the few in this cabinet, he took the trouble with his secretary of state to join the opposition for tea. Thank you for that. I'd like to take him on a journey along the criminal justice chain. There are 4.5 million traditional crimes every year and 7 million crimes are committed, including cybercrime. Two and a half million people are being killed. There are only a small million reports. Of these reports, 250,000 are investigated and 200,000 suspects continue to enter the criminal chain. Less than 100,000 suspects will be brought to justice. How is it that, out of 2.5 million victims, we come up against only 100,000 suspects who have to answer to the courts? As a perpetrator, you must be a very big dork if that's what you want to happen to you. For 50PLUS, this funnel symbolises the erosion of the rule of law. It takes a trend break to fix it. 50PLUS wants victims to return to normal reporting, that their declaration does not disappear in the trash can, that judges can rule again, that offenders are convicted, that punishments are carried out and that imposed sentences are re-assessed as appropriate by society. And, around the circle, the government not only cares about convicted offenders, but the victims who want to get their lives back on track. We start our journey with the police. Victims' willingness to report is low. Does the Minister have any recent information on the reasons for this? Victims who do want to report it are becoming increasingly difficult. A police station or a simple police counter in every municipality found the former minister excessive. What is this minister going to do to increase the willingness to report? Is there perhaps a need for a special declaration agent: an employee who does not have to follow the entire police training, but who is very good at filling out declarations? The police are pulling out of the street. We'll get special investigators back for it. Started these boas as extra eyes and ears of the police, they now pass fines. And all this without any direction from the police and with violence instruction. The boa fines are up to €340. A man walking his dog into the woods while it's twilight gets a fine. A shopkeeper on his sidewalk drinks a cup of tea as well. 50PLUS is in favour of maintaining public order, but it must be under pressure before boa fines are handed out. The public gets the impression that overzealous boas are banning the harmless citizen, while the justice system treats dangerous criminals with the velvet glove. Last week we received the news that two women kissing in Amsterdam were abused by people who did not make our values their own. What is the Minister, whom I know from a common past as a true advocate of equal rights, going to do to ensure that this does not happen again? Does the Minister have control over enforcement by boas or is it up to the municipalities to make enforcement policies and to the municipal councils to check that? Are we going to have a different enforcement regime for each municipality? Isn't that legal inequality? Can the Minister provide an overview of the differences between municipalities in boas' enforcement and penalty policies? If we're wrong, we'd like to hear it. Looking back, we've messed up a new enforcement model. There are now 30,000 boas and 50,000 cops. Is that what some kind of municipal police is like next to the national police? I thought the police were supposed to be national. Is it true that there is a penalty quota for The Hague boas? How does the boa's baton relate to the police's monopoly of violence? I would like an integral view of these developments. In the municipality of Rotterdam, so-called city marines have been performing for a number of years. These super-officials are deployed in certain areas to solve problems, not by passing fines but by removing the underlying causes. Is the minister familiar with the city marines and what is his opinion? So much for the police or the lack of them. The other problems there are raised in the evaluation of the national police. In the area of justice, too, we mess with new models, starting with the EU-Public Ministry. Are they going to say that a European Public Prosecutor does not actually work without an EU criminal code? Are we gradually moving towards an EU criminal code? Is that the intention? 50PLUS sees a tendency in which the independent judge makes way for officials of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Judicial Institutions Department, both of which are part of the Ministry of Justice. 16% of the cases are now dealt with as a criminal order by the D.A. The district attorney's office is sending fewer and fewer suspects to the judge. There are already less than half the number of suspects. What about in five or ten years? So it's only 30%? Is it better for the D.A. to judge than an independent judge? Or is it a cutdown? If a suspect is still in prison, then it is up to the Justice Department to execute that sentence. A convict can leave after two thirds. It's a good thing the cabinet is putting a line on this automatism. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, only offenders who repent or wish to improve their lives are eligible. There should also be no shortage of judges. According to Trouw, that's true. According to the Justice Council, it would not be so bad. But according to the Dutch Association for Justice, it really is. In any case, additional judges are needed to serve citizens better. In order to preserve the knowledge and skills of those judges, 50PLUS advocates raising the age limit for judges who wish to do so, while at the same time checking the functioning of passing judges. This allows longer use of that knowledge and experience, it saves costs and reduces the workload. 50PLUS asks the Minister to examine the possibility of raising the legal age limit for substitute judges if he so wishes. Mr. Chairman. Let's move on to the punishments. Research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that the Dutch believe that judges punish low. There are reservations as to whether or not this is right, but we cannot ignore this signal. The increase in penalties does not work preventively, but it does give judges more freedom of movement. 50PLUS asks the Minister to investigate whether it is desirable to impose a life sentence in the event of repeated serious crimes in the future. Then we get to the position of victims. Are we doing enough for them? For a tbser we pay €575 per day. That's the price of a suite at the Amstel Hotel. On average, a tbser costs society 1.5 million euros. If only we as a society would invest such a sum in the victim to get his destroyed life back on track at all costs. Revenue from fines, transactions and removals is estimated at 1.7 billion for 2018. 50PLUS wants that money ear tags. We would like to see some of these proceeds for the benefit of crime victims. One-off or periodic benefits may be paid from the proceeds in order to mitigate the damage suffered by the victims. How does the Minister feel about that? Our rule of law also has other victims: innocent people who are withdrawn from civil proceedings by malicious fellow citizens. After acquittal, they have enormous costs, which are barely reimbursed. Can this be dealt with, for example, from the proceeds of fines and take-away money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u210	Fortunately, Mr Krol is now also advocating higher penalties in some cases and even for life, as the PVV has done before. That's great news. Can Mr Krol explain why it should only be imposed for life in the event of a recurrence, so if it happens again, and not even at the beginning, if an offender commits a very serious criminal offence in the first instance? Why doesn't he want to live for life if for the first time an unsub does some really bad things?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u211	I'm still from the school who believes that even very bad criminals can repent and improve their lives. If there's been a recidivism, I don't have that confidence anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u212	I hear Mr Krol making the sympathetic proposal to make available to victims the 1.8 billion which is apparently collected by fines and that sort of thing. That is very nice, but Mr Krol also knows that spending 1.8 billion on something else means a gap in the budget. What's his proposal to catch that hole?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u213	It's 1.7 billion. I didn't say "in its entirety." I said very clearly "partly." In any case, I would like to hear the Minister's views on the possibility of helping victims in one way or another. The same applies to people who have to defend themselves unjustly in court. They are often told by the court that the other party has been convicted of the costs, but you also know that these costs are often only a fraction of the costs that the person indicted had to advance first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u214	I think it is such a nice proposal that I would like to know what part of that 1.7 billion Mr Krol is talking about and how he is seeking funding for that part in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u215	I haven't talked about what part. I said "part of it." I'm glad to hear that's found sympathetic at the CDA. Let us wait for the Minister's answer and then see whether we think that is enough and whether there is indeed cover for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u216	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u217	Then I come to the threat of terrorism. 50PLUS has always advocated stepping up the fight against terrorism. The question is whether the additional resources are sufficient. While Europe is a slaughter ground, Islamic State in Iraq and Syria increasingly loses control. This has negative effects on safety in the Netherlands. An unknown number of jihadists are coming towards Europe, a part with the aim of sowing death and destruction. The situation is very dangerous. Should we not take more measures to deal with terrorism? It is right that the cabinet should be extra alert and that measures should be taken. The point is also here: what is this going to look like in practice? By what time is the provisional detention extended? What maximum penalty will be imposed on voluntary stays on terrorist territory? Furthermore, does the Minister consider it desirable for jihadgoers to return to the Netherlands? How does the Minister view Rutte's statement in 2015 that jihadists can be better killed than returning to the Netherlands? And what will he do with young children of returning jihadists? Is there a playbook? I'd like a response. 50PLUS aims to strengthen intelligence services, promote cooperation and preventative action where necessary. Tackling hate preachers is a step in the right direction. But how is this cabinet going to implement that? How does it intend to do everything possible to prevent hate preachers from being offered a stage, in practice? Who qualifies this cabinet as a hate preacher? And how does this cabinet come to this qualification? Is this cabinet going to ward off hate-mongering? Where and how? Or is it just people who have previously been convicted of, for example, inciting hatred? Are foreign hate preachers declared undesirable strangers, stopped and returned at the border? Hate preachers must be stopped, especially if they are inciting violence. We must therefore ensure that rights, such as freedom of expression, can be used by those who wish to destroy our democratic rule of law. The coalition agreement offers hope, because on page 5 it says: "Freedom of expression is not a free pass for inciting hatred and radicalisation." But what exactly is meant here? What is inciting radicalisation? What exactly is radicalisation? And is inciting radicalisation anything other than inciting hatred? And, if so, is the cabinet going to criminalize the inciting of radicalisation? Where's the border? What persons, organisations and actions does this cabinet have in mind here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u218	It is good to hear that Mr Krol of 50PLUS wants to protect his constituents and calls for more action. I am very curious whether he wants to protect his constituents as well as the PVV does by introducing, for example, administrative detention? Does he support our plans to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u219	No, we do not yet have that intention in our programme, but I would like to have a cup of tea with you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u220	I would now like to invite Mr Krol to that cup of tea. That's fine. Of course he doesn't have that in his program. You can't. Not every party can have everything in its programme, but at least Mr Krol can say whether he likes that proposal at least? All those elderly people in the Netherlands, who represent 50PLUS, are particularly vulnerable to those scumbags that are running around and that we want to put in place preventively. He can just go along with that by saying, "I protect the elderly in this way too"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u221	I'll take the invitation to the cup of tea. Then I'll tell you what else I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u222	I have a question for Mr Krol. When it comes to sowing hate and stopping people who poison our society, you will find DENK by your side. How do we establish that there is a kind of causal link between what one calls for and the actions of another?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u223	That's very hard to determine. That is also one of the reasons why I am raising this problem here. I hope that the Minister will give me an answer to that, because we are both rightly concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u224	But do you have any ideas? We talk about it a lot. I have heard it in a number of other contributions. Hateimams and people who preach hatred were called. How do we determine this? Do you have any ideas of your own?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u225	I don't think I called the word "hateimams."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u226	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u227	I've been talking about hate preachers. Unfortunately, this also occurs in other religions. I think we should all see what we can do about it. Is there a causal link? I fear that there is much more to study.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u228	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u229	This brings me to another intention of this cabinet, namely to extend Article 20 of Book 2 of the Civil Code, which provides the public authorities with better facilities against organisations whose aim is to overthrow or abolish our democratic rule of law. With this provision, will the government prohibit religious organisations? And, if not, which organizations? I would like more clarity from the cabinet and this minister on this point. Then migration. Dutch society has received a huge influx of disadvantaged immigrants. The reception capacity and support base are now under severe pressure. 50PLUS stands for a strict and just, but also humane refugee policy. Refugees are welcome as far as 50PLUS is concerned and are granted temporary right of residence. Economic refugees and displaced asylum seekers should be returned to their country of origin as soon as possible. The coalition agreement offers a perspective on this point. 50PLUS wants as much reception as possible of refugees in the region. The idea of creating safe ports in the region can count on our group's agreement. But that safe haven must be really safe. Now we have the idea that that is not always the case. What guarantees can this Minister give in this respect? In order to take real steps, 50PLUS advocates sending asylum seekers who are illegally present in the Netherlands directly back to the safe ports in the region, waiting for the asylum procedure, and not to pass it on to our European partners. Combined with better surveillance of the European external borders and an effective fight against trafficking in human beings, this will benefit the acceptance of genuine refugees and European solidarity. Madam President, you may have noticed that I have hardly talked about issues that concern older people in particular. Finally, there is one specific point, namely age discrimination. 50PLUS is against all forms of discrimination, including age discrimination. That's a big problem. 50PLUS has previously tabled a motion on the criminal approach to age discrimination, in which we asked the government, among other things, to examine its approach. According to the previous minister, it is not appropriate to introduce a criminalisation of age discrimination. The previous minister only referred to Articles 137c and 137d of the Code of Criminal Law, while the motion of 50PLUS was really broader. Other criminal provisions should also be taken into account, such as Articles 429c and 137f and g of the Code of Criminal Law. What is the Minister's position on this? Finally, I wish this team a great deal of strength and wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u230	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u231	Madam President. The government agreement begins with justice and security and promises the necessary investments, tightening up of laws. This is a legitimate priority in the service of justice; it is a core task of the government. The SGP looks forward to good cooperation with the new rulers of Justice and Security. Having read all the letters from the last few weeks, we have been able to see that they have started to work quickly. Mr. Chairman. I will make a few comments myself in the areas of criminal law and personal and family law, and my colleague Bishop will then make a few comments in the area of asylum and police. The cabinet wants to increase security by making more money available to fight recidivism, giving more attention and space to volunteers in the execution of punishments, and making more money available for the fight against terrorism. We support that. Can the rulers lift a hint of the veil about how it will be filled out? The unease of many citizens about law enforcement in the Netherlands must be taken seriously. There are many areas where improvement is needed and where improvement is possible. It is the SGP a thorn in the eye that those who are to be punished for 12 years are in fact only eight years in prison. The SGP wants to get rid of this. If you are to be punished unconditionally, you must also serve that sentence. The subsequent measures needed to return to society could be linked to a paroleal penalty. The initiative proposal is now for the opinion of several relevant bodies. Can we count on a constructive response from the cabinet to these plans? I have seen that the coalition agreement also wants to change that conditional release. So we hope for a good dialogue on this. Mr. Chairman. The strengthening of the laws against terrorism is a good thing. We insist on speed. It would be a pity if the criminality of staying in terrorist territory, which we have been advocating for so long, were finally realized if no one were to travel to ISIS territory, but we were mainly dealing with returners. How is the cabinet going to work on a more stringent approach to jihadism and the banning of hate preachers? I just heard Mr Krol talk about hating preachers. In preachers, I think especially of people who lead Protestant divine service. Mr Krol undoubtedly means in a broad sense from the Latin "predicare": making public, announcing. In that broad sense of the word, I can follow him. Mr. Chairman. Timeliness is essential in law enforcement. We are calling for more speedy clarity about prosecution. That often takes too long. The policy of tackling hate speech also raises questions. I want to send you an e-mail that I found in my mailbox these days. Someone said: how can it be that a Hague council member who is visiting peaceful Jewish children in this Chamber does not stand in the way of future child killers, while a report of an anti-black-eyed club against someone who did not make statements that are not acceptable to the courts? That gave a feeling of double measure and misplaced political correctness. I have to answer this gentleman. It would be useful if I could say: well, I put the case before you and this is the answer. I'm curious. Mr. Chairman. We see weakness in Dutch drug policy. The evil of harmful use is not addressed in the coalition agreement by closing the front door of the coffee shops, but by opening the back door. My question is: are the remaining rules strictly enforced? Or is it mainly relaxation that sets the tone? In concrete terms: is the resident criterion "Cannabis for tourists" not maintained, even in Amsterdam? That's still on the wish list. And what about the distance from schools? The Netherlands is also high on the lists of online drug trafficking. Our question is whether the cabinet wants to fight this online drug trafficking vigorously. Mr. Chairman. More action is shown in the fight against trafficking in human beings and abuses in prostitution. I commend the coalition parties and these rulers for that. Is the Minister also prepared to work on a speedy submission of the promised legislation in this area? In an earlier debate, I have already discussed the legislative proposals that are still waiting for the Upper House. Therefore, a request to speed up this process and also to consider the implementation of the motion tabled in the Chamber last year and adopted in order to encourage municipalities to pursue policies for ending work in prostitution, i.e. with regard to exit programmes. More attention should be paid to this at municipal level. Mr. Chairman. In the area of road safety, I would like to draw attention to the estimated 75 to 140 road deaths, which are the result of driving under the influence every year. I understand that the number of checks has actually decreased in recent years. Shouldn't that number increase on this important point, driving under the influence? And wouldn't there be a need for stricter penalties for driving without a driver's license? There are people who have already been convicted and whose driver's license has been taken away for driving under the influence, and who then just drive on. They will get away with a few hundred euros for driving without a driver's license, while the danger is enormous. Please also respond to this point of stricter penalties for driving without a driving licence. Mr. Chairman. Faithful law enforcement is essential in matters of life and death. A remarkable development is that the so-called self-euthanasia is also taking increasingly open steps. Think of the powder of the Cooperative Last Will and the suicide manual of an Australian doctor. The Netherlands appears to have a network of all kinds of people who are consulting on how to end your life. We saw that manual banned in Australia. In the Netherlands it is just printed and distributed. Does the government want to make an effort to ensure that illegal suicide aid is put to an end? Shouldn't the legal ban on suicide aid be extended precisely so that any form of direct or indirect aid is included? Mr. Chairman. A linking team around dealing with confused persons is hard at hand. That was a follow-up to a previous hunting team and to the Hoekstra committee, which we also discussed in detail in this Chamber after the horrific murder of former Minister Borst and Lois of Urk. Then there was a strong sense of urgency. This committee also made a working visit to the switching team. There you also tasted the concern that the urgency disappears, despite all the good that is happening, also in the city. Many people are doing well, but in the end it is a chain whose strength is determined by the weakest link. So do the rulers want to work towards a final approach and maintain the urgency so that we really do not slacken down on this point? Mr. Chairman. Finally, there is also the necessary movement in the field of personal and family law. The coalition chord shields in various places with the best interests of the child. It is right, but we are calling for this to be done in practice in all the areas in which it is being discussed. It's still a bit of a misunderstand sometimes. Children are too often the victims of conflicts between parents, especially when they break up. My final question is: what concrete plans can we expect from the cabinet in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u232	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u233	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to express my joy in cooperating with these three rulers. I look forward to it, even on two dossiers, namely police and asylum. I would like to make a contribution on this. About the police, the commitment of the coalition agreement is clear: more money goes to the police. The SGP welcomes this, but the question is what this means in concrete terms, first of all, we would say, for the district agents in the villages and the neighbourhoods. Still there are places where there are no fields or roads where a district agent can be found. And that's even though, under the law, every village of 5,000 inhabitants is entitled to a district cop. The government agreement says that the distribution between the regions is improving, but what is the Minister going to do to ensure that the district agent is actually available everywhere? Additional agents in urban areas are beautiful, but this should never be at the expense of the division of agents in the region and thus of the rural area. The role of the police is being extended and expanded. All tasks are important. But what does that mean for the concrete work on the street? Is a district agent still available for the fight against ordinary crime, something that almost everyone encounters? How does the minister view the breadth of the police task? Should we no longer look at the core of police duties? Other tasks may need to be invested in a different way. I had another comment about the mental care of the police, but I already made it during the interruption. Then the point of asylum. The SGP welcomes the planned commitment to reception in the region. This requires agreements between EU Member States and other countries. My question is: what kind of agreements should the EU make, according to the Secretary of State, and with which countries exactly should these agreements be made? I would like to have a bit of a coloration of the intentions in this area. As long as there is no proper reception in the region, refugees will continue to travel to Europe. In addition, there is still no successful return policy for rejected asylum seekers. In this light, the SGP considers it illogical to invite additional asylum seekers to resettlement in the Netherlands, as long as that is not in order. How does the Secretary of State view that? The cabinet wants to speed up the asylum procedure, which has been advocated by the SGP for years, and fortunately not the SGP alone. That's a good point. But are the measures envisaged sufficient? And also a very exciting question: why and how does this Secretary of State, unlike his predecessors, manage to speed up these procedures? One of the first achievements of the new Secretary of State for Justice and Security is the relaxation of asylum policy for apostate Muslims from Pakistan. Often they are Muslims who have become Christians. The SGP welcomes that decision. Christians are having an exceptionally hard time in the area in and around the Middle East. Today, the newspapers headlined that requests from converted Christians will be better assessed. That too is good news. As far as we are concerned, it cannot be possible for the State to test the credibility of a convert without seriously involving the church. Hence the question of the role of the opinions and reports of churches in the assessment of applications for asylum. Mr President, that was my contribution, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u234	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u235	Mr President, thank you. The rulers have been there for some time, but I would also like to welcome them to their first budget debate. The DENK Group is counting on constructive cooperation. DENK sees a lot of sensible measures in the area of justice and security. Let me at least highlight two of them. DENK thinks it is a good experiment that we will have neighbourhood judges and simple procedures, but we do want those district judges to reflect society properly. Among other things, sufficient women and people with a migrant background should be recruited for this purpose. We are pleased that EUR 95 million is being invested in cyber security. A number of speakers have already spoken about this in detail. Experts estimate that in the next five years half of all crime will be related to cybersecurity. The economic damage to the Netherlands is estimated at around €10 billion. So it seems like a sensible investment. Mr. Chairman. DENK sees many more positive points, but DENK is also worried, worried about the Netherlands. There is still so much fundamental injustice. It is precisely in the area of justice and security that there should be no such fundamental injustice. Let me illustrate this with the following question: what kind of country would I like to live in? I want to live in a country where citizens are an integral and unconditional member of our society. This means that everyone has the same rights and obligations. With these rights and duties, we are not going to negotiate. Police and justice uphold those rights. Think, for example, of the situation in Dokkum two weeks ago, when a group of citizens took the law into their own hands and took away anti-Black Piet protesters. Then the police and the D.A. are gonna have to step in instead of turn a blind eye. Then rulers, such as Secretary of State Knops, should not show understanding. Mr. Chairman. I want to live in a country where citizens do not have to choose between two nationalities. You're not gonna let people choose between their father and their mother, are you? It is ruthless to force people to deny their origins, as the government wants to do to the children of newcomers. Moreover, your loyalty is not determined by your passport but by your actual perceptible behavior. Mr. Chairman. I want to live in a country where citizens are not unnecessarily arrested by the police and where the police do not use unnecessary force against civilians. DENK is happy and grateful that a lot of agents contribute to a safe society every day. However, we believe that the police should act more fairly and fairly and be more broadly constituted if they are to enjoy the trust of all citizens in the country. Ethnic profiling really has to stop. You can't arrest people simply because they're different colors. It just can't be. Focus research showed that cops make choices on the basis of their abdomen at 50% of the checks they carry out on the streets and that they often keep people with a migrant background more often. On the Facebook page Stop Useless Police Violence we see a long stream of disproportionate police violence passing by. Just this week, a few days ago, the black book on police discrimination was in the news: staggering revelations by 26 police officers. Chief Constable Hicham Argani summarized it aptly: "Elevating diversity rates does not contribute much if culture remains the same with the police." How is the Minister going to steer and monitor that culture in the police is going to change so that all agents feel at home and that everyone feels invited to be part of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u236	Mr Azarkan and the party DENK regularly discuss this issue. Here's what I want to ask him. The police have the guts to produce such a report internally. We know, you know, from other things too, that the police are very much on this subject. We have a chief of police who doesn't run away from it either. What else should happen in your opinion other than asking the Minister what he's going to do? What do you think should happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u237	I indicated in my contribution that I have compliments for a lot of agents who are working every day to ensure our safety. At the moment, I do not think there is sufficient commitment to changing culture. I'm glad that Chief Constable Erik Akerboom is working on boosting the diversity rate. That's good. I believe that the current influx rate is about 25%. But there will really have to be another way, in a much more explicit way, to look at how we are going to solve these problems, this culture that the former chief of police has already described as a poisonous arrow in society. That is also my question to the Minister. We have been four years ahead, and there has been too little progress on this issue, including the black book.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u238	Mr Van Dam, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u239	Yes, Mr President. It's kind of saying that every day the sun has to shine without telling you how to shine. Especially in view of the background and the target group for which Mr Azarkan's party stands, I expect him to have good initiatives, so there are good initiatives. I just miss that. I would like to call on Mr Azarkan not only to make this point, but also to make a real contribution to the solution, even if it is not now, but at another time. Because saying that culture needs to change is for me really saying that tomorrow must be nice weather.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u240	That's really too short a turn. We presented the approach to racism and discrimination here a few months ago. I'll hand it over to the new rulers as well. The rest of us already have him. There's five steps in there. I'm gonna name it later. These are concrete ways of combating racism and discrimination. The police can learn something from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u241	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u242	I want to live in a country where the government listens to its citizens instead of listening to its citizens. Well, then, of course, I'm talking about the upcoming draft law. DENK is in favour of good tools for the security services to make the Netherlands safer, but DENK is not in favour of massive surveillance of innocent citizens without the supervision of judges and of passing this information unfiltered to other foreign security services. I want to live in a country where humanity is also a starting point and where there is room for real refugees. DENK wants to solve the refugee problem in a constructive and sensible way. We are in favour of a four-point approach. First of all... Let's start with the root causes. Those root causes are well known. We are talking about poverty, war, international injustice and often cynical geopolitics. Second. The shelter in the region. It is extremely important that so much happens in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey. It is also important that we continue to support it financially. Third. The European Union must do more. We cannot leave it to the region alone. 97% of refugees are admitted to their own region. So we also need to take on a fair and significant share in Europe and spread these people fairly across the EU countries. In doing so, the Netherlands must appeal to other countries that simply do not comply with their agreements. Fourth. The support base in the Netherlands needs to be increased. This is done by small-scale care in neighbourhoods where refugees can quickly be absorbed into society from day one and not by large-scale reception in very small villages. At first glance, the proposal by colleagues from the SP seems sympathetic. I also want to live in a country where priority is given to combating discrimination and racism. 22% of Dutch people are discriminated against, according to the Social Cultural Planning Bureau this year. That's almost 4 million Dutch. Do you know what the essence of discrimination is? It hits you in the heart and in the core of who you are. People who don't experience that really wave it away too easily. I would therefore like to hand over to these rulers the Chain Approach Discrimination of DENK. That is a comprehensive approach with five components. The first is working on permanent awareness. The second is to increase the reporting process and the willingness to report. The third is more control by inspections and by investigation. The fourth is more effective prosecution by investing in expertise with police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. The fifth is to increase and broaden the penalty rate by higher fines, more naming-and-shaming and by the educational measure discrimination, on which I have already tabled a motion for a resolution. Mr. Chairman. I wonder what the rulers think of the society I dream of. Do they recognise the concerns I have just expressed? Are they willing and able to move into other groups in society as well? Are they willing to look at the problem of ethnic profiling or are they immediately shooting into denial and saying that this is part of the problem? What are they going to do to prevent unnecessary police violence? What are they going to do to protect citizens' privacy and to combat discrimination and racism with priority? Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few loose questions. I'd like a response from the directors to these questions. A question about sexting: nude photos that are distributed on the internet. This could have a huge impact on the person concerned. This year in Enschede even a boy committed suicide because naked pictures of him were sent around. Imagine, what a tragedy! It's a good thing the government wants to criminalize revenge porn for that reason. DENK assumes and hopes that sexting in that law also takes shape and space. We also ask whether it is possible to take into account the consequences for the victim, both in the new law and in the policy of the Public Prosecutor. Because wouldn't a dramatic outcome like suicide fit a heavier sentence? After all, if you hit someone with a black eye, you will be punished much lighter than if someone died later on, even though that was never your intention. Then there is the fight against terrorism. For many years now, we have been calling for a balance to be struck in the fight against terrorism. Unfortunately, we have to note that our society is vulnerable to those who want evil and we must oppose it. That applies to all groups who want evil. We rightly have an Integral Approach Jihadism Action Programme with 37 methods and approaches, but DENK notes that there is no comparable action programme for the far right and that experts point out that the consequences of right-wing extremism and its danger are underestimated. I will conclude with a look back at my interruption this morning with Mr Markuszower of the PVV. Let me start by apologizing. In an interruption with Mr Markuszower I spoke too briefly. I have drawn conclusions on the basis of separate newspaper reports in De Telegraaf which cannot be drawn. I have also given rise to the suggestion that many PVVs are criminals. The truth is, of course, that there are a lot of honest PVVs and it is also true what Mr Markuszower said, namely that he himself was never convicted by a judge. And Mrs Van Toorenburg was there as the chickens to bring the standards of conduct into the Chamber to establish that I had accused the PVV's and ex-PVV's when they were not present to defend themselves against it. An interesting and rightful point. Mr Markuszower went even further. He spoke of slander and defamation. He almost jumped on the lap of the D66 judge who he had just before demoted in his contribution to a kind of wandering mink. Unfortunately, that's how it works at the PVV. If judges and prosecutors don't do what the PVV wants, they don't do it or, worse still, they're accomplices of terrorists. If the College of Human Rights pronounces in favour of a Dutch citizen with headscarf, then that college is no good and must be lifted immediately. Keep chopping with that bone axe. It is not only necessary but also our duty to discuss and exchange arguments on the basis of facts and normal standards of conduct in this Chamber, so that the concerns and solutions we provide to ministers can deal with the problems in society. Of course, we must keep each other focused on these principles in debates. But why did I debate this way, Mr. Chairman? I wanted to show the PVV a mirror. It is the PVV who speaks of Muslims and refugees in this Chamber in this way. Half truths and whole lies are thrown into the great PVV blender of hatred. They're doing a little research that they've selectively shopped in. Bosma throws in another beautiful one-liner, such as testosterone bomb, street terrorist or head-vodden tax, and look at it, there is a deadly smoothie of hatred and disgust that some of society finds eager deduction. So what's the result? We've seen arson, occupation, pig heads and even a terrorist attack on a mosque. We have seen incidents in many azc's as far as threatening directors. What do you get when you sow that hate? Then you get hundreds of incidents involving mosques, against refugees and a huge increase in violence based on Islamophobia. Mr. Chairman. Let me make a promise to the Chamber. As long as the PVV continues to spread lies and continue to sow hatred about Muslims and refugees, I will fight them here in this Chamber with all the verbal means at my disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u243	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mr President, is there water in the case? Oh, thank you. On behalf of the Forum for Democracy, I will shed my light on criminal matters as mentioned in the coalition agreement. But first a little personal word, if it's allowed to me. The Forum for Democracy wishes the Ministers and the Secretary of State every success in their important work. One more personal word, which I will explain further. Don't be alarmed. I believe that modesty will also have to be shown. It could be that Minister Grapperhaus, in particular, is lurking in some pride. It may be that he walks in the clouds with his thoughts, because he has noticed that he may have unsuspected abilities. He can be very de-escalating in near-war situations. Let me explain. A miracle took place immediately after his arrival. A miracle of hope in scared days has recently occurred in Amsterdam. At a time when our country is in great danger because of the return of the ISIS executioners, an IS fighter is exposed in Amsterdam, not in a creep mosque, but in a debate centre, in De Balie. What a spectacle! A once religious fanatic, I presume, fightingly tuned, ends up in tight shoes in Syria. It gets too hot on the sand and he thinks: I'm going to Holland, I'm going back. And what happens? And now I see the Minister's steering hand. He is inspired by the texts of Minister Grapperhaus. He said: with Syria-returners I want to have a debate; I want to be able to give them mercy. Well, thought the Syrian in question, that does appeal to me. That's the de-escalating effect that came from those words. That's nicely taken. How can it exist differently..................................................................................................................................................... That's inexplicable, unless you can believe in Minister Grapperhaus' steering hand. And I can. The Syrian was in that debate centre to focus on Dutch debate techniques, to prepare himself for his debate with Minister Grapperhaus. And then he was exposed, so I guess it never came to a debate. And again, Minister Grapperhaus's steering hand: another little miracle is taking place. The Syrian in question does not make a tumult after his exposure. He leaves, so I read in the newspaper, and mixes with his bike between the audience. And he's gone. That man is healed; there is no other way. It's amazing. All this thanks to the Minister's simple ukaze about the way in which he wishes to receive these gentlemen. It's amazing. And that is why I must warn the Minister not to keep thinking too lightly about returning Syrians. I do not think it is wise to think that future returners too will be spawned with the extension of the opening hours of Mr Yoeri Albrecht's chat club. It's gonna keep babysitting, I guess. I must admit that the Minister is also very strict. According to the government agreement, the Minister believes that we should not ignore the risk that the returner might be able to move in our society. That's a good point. I have a question about that that I'm serious about. The wonderful disappearance of this Syrian after his exposure from De Balie and his ride by bike to the unknown places: is it followed by his accompanying AIVD staff? Hopefully they were also in possession of a bicycle, otherwise they will have lost him. I'd like to know if this gentleman was being held up and followed after he left. I think that's a good thing for a country's safety. Question two. The coalition agreement states that legislation is being put in place to allow returnees to be held in remand for a long period of time. Question: On what grounds can this longer pre-trial detention be imposed? Does the level of suspicion required remain unchanged, but will the detention be extended? It is not clear to me from this wording. Furthermore, with the coalition agreement, everything must be done to prevent hate preachers from being offered a stage. Well, maybe a little sharpening again: who are we talking about here? Preachers? Hate preachers of baptismal cut? Reformed? Christian? Freed? You should know. I have just been initiated by Mr Krol in the knowledge that there are also hate preachers. Well, then we'll add it as a possible alternative. It is not surprising that I am asking you this, because in the coalition agreement the word 'Islamic' does not occur at all, or at some point a possible cause of, let me say, social inconvenience. It's not mentioned at all! My group leader, Mr Thierry Baudet, interrupted the Prime Minister and he was barked up: "But not Buddhism either! That was not the case when the coalition agreement was concluded." That's when the quarter fell for me. All that religious hysteria we've been familiar with, all those kalashnikovs, all those bullets, all that blood, all those concrete posts at the Central Station and in the Kalverstraat, in short, all those signs of Buddhist vandalism: if our Prime Minister doesn't have an eye for that, I can see why he can't get the right view of Islam at all. So that riddle is solved. A question to the Minister: how are they prevented from the stage? What new approaches are being applied? That does not make any sense at all. That will often be a point of criticism. That coalition agreement is being read like a grabbelton, because it is something for everyone. There is a persuasive and decisive discussion of future policies and methods of action, but nowhere is it provided with content. One wonders whether, when this agreement was concluded, one only agreed on views. How we fill that out later: well, we'll see about that. That is the strong impression I have of this coalition agreement. Fog all over! Will there be new laws to ward off these hate preachers, preachers from the stage? That's my question. There will be a ban on outlaw motorcycle gangs. That also sounds very warrior. The government is full of society! Those are criminal motorcycle gangs, as it is made clear. Is there going to be a ban on that? On a criminal gang? Wasn't that there already? That's very special. What kind of ban will that be this time? I think this is how I understand it: the government, at least the public prosecutor, has not so far succeeded in banning motorways, because of the fact that the purpose of the association or club must be illegal. Only then can it be dissolved. If the work of the club is illegal, it can be banned. The D.A.'s office isn't gonna be able to get a restraining order like that out of court. And now I'm reading here that it's going to be forbidden. Well, then the question is very clear: how then? There will be a motion on this issue because the Democracy Forum wants to show you the way and try another way. And how are we going to do that? It's very simple. A club without a criminal member has lost a member. That's easy. It is a fact of general fame that these clubs are constantly being examined because their members are breaking the law massively. In no small measure. Think of violating the Arms and Ammunitions Act, unreasonable violence in the club context, often outside the clubhouse, Opium-law crimes, weapons crimes, which is not the case. That's not a lie. So to date, these people have been put in prison for a few years through communal criminal law. But then it gets quite a bit, because then they're serving their time in front of the club, and they're getting caught up in the club again. That's another thing, and we're not gonna get that club banned. What does Forum think the government should do? We are coming up tomorrow with a motion on a reverse approach. What is it that binds the members of such a club? An iron fascination for a motor of immense size with bangpots from here to gunder, yucks of vests and a bald head. You could say that, that's the atmosphere inside the clubhouse. What if you were to deny those convicted criminals who have come into contact with those harsh criminal offences and face prison sentences? Then they're worthless to the club. Do you see it happening? By bike to the clubhouse with your bald head and your big vest and your tattoos. Burned!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u245	I wonder if Mr Hiddema has read the latest reports on the criminal motorcycle gangs. About a third of them don't even have a driver's license.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u246	Ma'am talks so fast and so decisive that it's too fast for me, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u247	I was curious to see if Mr Hiddema has read the latest reports on criminal motorcycle gangs. It says that about a third does not even have a motorcycle license.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u248	Just assume from me that someone is sitting on his bike for a monkey with his vest and his bald head when there is a driving disqualification of substantial duration. Then he's worthless to the club. The whole macho culture will be burned down. The proposal will therefore be: make sure that those who, in groups, often run into club members against towering prison sentences receive an additional penalty in that prison, i.e. a denial of substantial duration. That can be done if the judge, as is already possible in community criminal law in some of the crimes, takes into account that he has become convinced that a psychiatrist may add that the communal crimes have been committed in the sphere of that club and that his mental state, his behaviour and his violence stem from the environment in which he has wronged within that club. Then the judge has to say, when you get out, you'll be away from the club for a while. That seems to me to be more efficient than always trying to get a club ban along that other road. However, we are tabling a motion on this tomorrow, and Mrs Van Toorenburg can expect some clarification. But now I want to know how the government intends to get those clubs banned. That would certainly sound welcome to prosecutors who are now in the process of this kind of procedure. Judges can anticipate future legislation, so you never know if it will work. But we'll see. I also have a few loose questions about this grabbelton, of which I do not know how the government intends to provide these issues with substance. "In the EU, the Netherlands is committed to a much stricter approach to jihadism," I read. What is meant by this much stricter approach? I don't know. "Money flows from unfree countries, which abuse our freedoms, will be reduced as much as possible." Pats-boom! We have already had a lot of questions about this. What about Saudi Arabia? When the question was asked by Mr. Van Raak, the Prime Minister ducked away as if stabbed by a wasp and had to be somewhere else. Then Mr. Van Raak got a little tempered talking to you, Mr. Chairman. We still haven't figured out what that investigation turned out to be. What non-free countries are referred to here? Then who are they? Saudi Arabia, perhaps? Qatar? Kuwait? All countries where our royal house is welcomed. Should we call them "unfree countries" now? I don't know. I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Then we get to 137d, the hate-sowing article. Mr. Azarkan, are you listening? Here's what's going on. It is stated that the maximum penalty is extended from one year to two years within 137d. Is the Minister aware of the fact that within that article a maximum sentence of two years has already been mentioned? What's gonna happen to that? Paragraph 2 provides for a maximum sentence of two years, but here the government agreement states that the penalty rate in Article 137d is increased from one year to two years. Simple. Well, then you'll get into trouble with the next member. What's to be done with that? We'll hear about it. The Democracy Forum is against this increase, firstly because it is pointless. There must now be a two-year sentence on hate sows, but the current maximum sentence of one year for hate sows has never been imposed. In fact, as far as I know, prison sentences for hate sows are being imposed on me. I haven't been able to find them yet. Why does that have to be two years? I don't know. There have never been complaints from justice, from the courts, or that sentence may be raised. We are not aware of any signal in this direction. Nothing at all. So you create symbol laws, and that undermines law enforcement. Then you make the law unworthy to be called that. Then it's symbol law. Moreover, with this provision of law at this stage, you, Government, are suspecting that there is an impure policy that can be pursued. A certain MP here is now pleading his innocence in a hate-sowing case. This senseless increase is proposed during this process. Could the public not think that this should be a signal for the judges who are trying to judge this politician that they could anticipate the next two years if they were to be punished? That's what judges can do. That's not a tasteful display. It is pointless, it is unnecessary and it gives the public the impression that this is an impure political game.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u249	Does Mr Hiddema agree with me that adapted punitive provisions can never work retroactively?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u250	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u251	I asked if you would agree with me that adapted punitive provisions can never work with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u252	No, of course, but you didn't listen very carefully. I say that the judges can take into account signals from the House of Representatives that there will be an increase in the penalty. It's called anticipating. Those laws are not yet in place, but take into account the mood and humor of the Chamber. Especially if adopted, they will be able to take even more account of it. But they can do that already, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u253	I've never met a court that anticipates a sentence in this way. I actually think that Mr Hiddema himself is creating the point he is trying to make, namely that a certain suggestive image is being created.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u254	That you haven't heard of certain issues and possibilities... But that's late on this day. I'd be happy to. Okay, so we shouldn't do that for four reasons. I had stayed with the impure reason, as I would call it. Five. It creates a wholesome division in society. It strengthens the debate on racism with a constant approach to the courts. The debate is only being held by sharpeners, untruthful. On the left we now see high glasses, but also very highly educated, types who say that if you are white, you are already guilty from birth. On the right hand side you have all the crazy noises about blackbirds and what nonsense not at all. This article is the engine behind this kind of pointless discussion. People want to get the hallway to the judge, with that they get the publicity and with that they can make their point. The existence of this law therefore leads to a spastic debate. The calm, calmed citizen keeps quiet, for he thinks: otherwise I am a racist, let it go. Surely it is madness that now a simple........... a very laconic, cheerful lady suddenly.................................................................................................................................................................................. Oh, my God! Well, that's gonna go back to court, all because of this article. It's really crazy. But the most harmful effect is based on the sight of the trial that takes place on the basis of this article. What does it look like? What becomes visible day in, day out? That's horrible. All the time, it's black complaining, and it's white sitting in the dock. It doesn't create a connection. This article thus confirms the image of black protection, needs support, needs careful consideration and characterises a vulnerable human species. The discourse is maddening, I think, for the proud black man or woman who has to look at this and who has to look at the types that pose as his or her protector. That he needs support, that he needs to go to court, that he has to file a report and that he shouldn't take anything if certain qualifications are expressed against him. The real proud, proud nigger, can I call him that? However, if he is satisfied in front of the mirror, feels like a new day, the radio turns on and hears him protected again from those types. He's not waiting for that. This article stands in the way of a good emancipation of the proud, strong Negro, so call him so tired, all that help around him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u255	Mr President, I object to such words. I really think that Mr Hiddema talks about people in this way. I would ask you to prevent him from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u256	I'm talking about a very proud gentleman who I'm giving a qualification that couldn't involve anything disqualifying at all. What kind of bullshit is that? Not at all! That's it. As if by your actions someone should be protected from my disqualifying remarks. There shouldn't be such a person, because such a person has eyes in his head. I'm sure he can understand that I don't judge him anything less worthy than you or myself or anyone else. This whole debate on the basis of this article makes society sick. If it stays that way, we say: it goes on and on. Then you shouldn't raise that article. Then you have to get rid of it, except for an exception. And that's inciting violence. That's what that article says. This applies to Forum as a criminal offence as the pimps. Don't even think about it. Then the playing field becomes clear to the judge too, because there is no starting point. But now it's a playground for professional activists, queryers and, yes, the usual suspects at talk shows. Day in, day out. Get rid of it. For the benefit, I read, of a natural association of people with different colors. How do I know? But keep Article 137d, where it comes to inciting violence. Motion follows. Then we have the coalition agreement again before us. The commitment is to increase the willingness to make a declaration, then you know how to increase the clarification rate and reduce the lead times. Well, nice, isn't it? That's a story from the old, old box. All these intentions have been reviewed so often here and it hasn't worked. Everyone knows the dramatic detection figures, the big gaps in the path of court declaration or vice versa. They have all remained hopeless exercises and beautiful intentions and nothing has changed. The citizen is not satisfied with the quality of the law, the possibilities of declaration and trial and the duration of the route offered to him. And that doesn't get any better. So now the Forum for Democracy is throwing it over another tour. There must be pressure on the organisation of police justice to achieve better detection and prosecution. Just press the kettle. And that pressure has to come from above, from above to below. At the top of the chain is someone who has to press the bell and say: get to work, because if you don't, I'll be liable. How are you gonna get that pressure downstairs? If you put the pressure on top. If upstairs doesn't continue then downstairs is paged, because upstairs must continue. The D.A.'s office should simply have an obligation to prosecute. Now that the public prosecutor has the principle of opportunity, they all know why, and often excuses, to be lazy. You got lazy cops, too. There is all very much appreciated talk about the difficult work. Well, read the internal reports and books about how diligent colleagues look at people who make a mess of it. There's a lot of them. And those people, who don't do their job, think, "I'm gonna get away with it if I don't do anything else with that report, 'cause upstairs there's no one I'm gonna dump. In this way, you create an environment in which declarations disappear, in which the chain is stretched very long and in which the complainant eventually starts a complaint procedure at the court because the prosecutor does not prosecute. And with that, the courts have become overloaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u257	I'd like to pick up the harvest for the moment. If I understand correctly, Article 137c must be removed from the Code of Conduct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u258	No, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u259	No, c.D. is that state of violence and c is that other thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u260	No, sir. You're wrong again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u261	Well, that's why I'm asking if I see it right or wrong. So group termination has to come out and the opportunity principle has to get out of the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u262	No, no. We'll figure it out. 137c is group swearing and 137d is hate-sowing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u263	Yes, but first, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So group termination has to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u265	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u266	Hang on, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u267	The principle of opportunity has to be on the side and what we need is really Jacobse and Van Es is a strong man at the top. Is that about the summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u268	Well, if you come to such a daring conclusion on the basis of legal knowledge that you are now presenting, then I cannot take that conclusion entirely seriously. I don't know what you mean, simply put.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u269	Yeah, maybe that's exactly my problem with what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u270	Are there any law books in the house?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u271	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u272	It's gonna be okay. So the pressure has to come from above. The prosecutor should no longer be able to sit in his lazy chair because of the opportunity principle of "well, I don't, I didn't get a sentence like that" or get nothing delivered from downstairs because they think downstairs "well, they're not upstairs either." No, the D.A. has to go to work. We are going to propose the principle of legality, which is also in force in Germany. That's where the District Attorney, the State District Attorney, is obliged to prosecute. This speeds things up, gives the citizen satisfaction and speeds up procedures. I will ask the government tomorrow in a motion to ask the WODC if they can assess to what extent the legality principle can speed up procedures. For now the courts are full of all sorts of complaints from citizens who run against a non-prosecution and who are complained through Article 12 Sv. At the courthouse. This is becoming more and more and the trajectory is slowing down immensely. If there's no prosecution, we'll be a year away. Then the complainant goes to court. That's where he'll have to wait a year for treatment. Then, if he's lucky, he gets a court order. Then he'll have to wait another year, and then he'll be back at the courthouse after four years where he could've sat from day one. We need to get rid of that. Tomorrow I hope to be able to table a welcome motion on this point, all in the interests of the rule of law as Forum wishes to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u273	Mr. Hiddema started his speech with a reference to an IS-goer who apparently had adapted very well to the Netherlands, who was in the debate centre and took off on a bike. Is Mr Hiddema not curious about the news that just came to us, that an IS-goer was arrested in a couple's club? This was very integrated! I think that Mr Hiddema too would like to know what is going on in this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u274	Well, maybe another minister had a thing for horses. I honestly don't know how...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u275	Couple-club.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u276	Couple club? Yes, well, I turn away from the assembled ministers. I don't know who to blame for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-7.u277	Okay, thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. It was a long debate, but 22 speakers participated. That's a unique thing, too, I think.
