ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	I welcome the National Ombudsman, Mr Van Zutphen, and, of course, the Children's Ombudsman, Mrs Kalverboer, and the Deputy Ombudsman, Mrs Sylvester. The Court considers it important that the presentation of the annual report of the National Ombudsman should receive the attention it deserves. It is one of the few reports presented and explained in plenary. This year this happens for the tenth time. The National Ombudsman also offers the annual report of the Veteran Ombudsman's activities for the year 2016. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Zutphen on behalf of the National Ombudsman Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Madam President. All citizens need the government to be able to participate and vulnerable citizens most. That is why good laws and rules are needed; laws and rules that are understandable and enforceable. Citizens trust you to make such rules. Citizens are entitled to a reliable government that enforces such laws and regulations properly. The title of the 2016 annual report of the National Ombudsman is: Who does not fit, is stalled. This has to do with the citizens' claim to a reliable government, because for those who are low-literate, these are 2.5 million people in the Netherlands who are in debt, 500,000 households in debt; 400,000 children are growing up in poverty for those who return from a military mission with PTSS, for those who live with intellectual disabilities, for those who are physically disabled, for those who live in Groningen, for those who are one of the 50,000 Q-fever patients, the trustworthy government is often far away. Parliament is ideally in a position to enable citizens to participate. You can make sure that the government is a humane creditor, that the administrative spaghetti in Groningen disappears from the board, that laws and rules are readable and understandable and that people with disabilities are not questioned. You can make sure that the elderly do not fall into poverty. You can safeguard the perspective of citizens in rules, laws and policies. That's what the citizen expects from you. Ensuring the citizen's perspective precedes the adoption of laws, rules and policies. Never afterwards, because often it's too late. For example, the pgbs could go wrong because too late new rules were invented and added to the law with the result that the reliability of the government was violated. However, a lot is also going well, and getting better. The number of hostage takings after non-payment of fines by people unable to pay has been drastically reduced. Some municipalities have adapted their assistance policies for 27-plussers, in the right way. A genuine excuse is made by and on behalf of governments for what has gone wrong between the government and the citizen. A new improved attachment-free foot has been established by the Chamber. I'd say now we've got the bank deposit. There was an improved complaint settlement for defence personnel. The number of non-payers in health insurance has fallen well below 300,000. Of course, citizens also expect a little from the National Ombudsman: to step in and intervene where things go wrong between citizens and government, to put their finger on the spot, to encourage governments to improve and learn from mistakes made. That is why we are constantly paying attention to and researching people who are in debt and in poverty, the consequences of digitalisation and the implementation of the various decentralisations. In the annual reports of the National Ombudsman and the Veteran Ombudsman, you will see and read how we did this in 2016. We went to see the civilian and gave him support where it went wrong. We challenged all governments to learn from mistakes and experiences, so that it goes better, even better, between citizens and government. Parliament makes rules and laws that allow every citizen to participate. We have been doing our work for 35 years; we are celebrating our seventh lustrum. That is what we are doing on the basis of your shared belief that the government is there for the citizen, not the other way around. That is why, Madam President, I am happy to present to you the 2016 Annual Report of the National Ombudsman and the Veteran Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	I thank the National Ombudsman. Thank you very much for the annual report, Mr van Zutphen, and for the much work and attention that has once again been devoted to the annual report. Of course, I would also like to thank the substitute Ombudsman, Mrs Sylvester, as well as the staff of the National Ombudsman Bureau, who have been involved in the preparation of this annual report with great energy over the past period. The Children's Ombudsman is coming in next week with her first annual report. This is offered separately to the Chamber. We look forward to that, too. I will pass on the annual report of the National Ombudsman to the permanent committee for internal affairs. The report on the Veteran Ombudsman's activities will be forwarded to the Permanent Defence Committee. The further procedure will be decided on there at a later date. For now, once again, I would like to thank the National Ombudsman and the people in the Chair.
