ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mr Fritsma of the PVV, the applicant for this debate, as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Some time ago, the Telegraaf managed to get information about crime among asylum seekers and other foreigners. This information was far too late, flawed or even wrong. One of the causes of this, indeed amateurism, is the fact that arrests or convictions never record the residence status of the person concerned. That is why, for example, the cabinet has no idea how many criminal asylum seekers or how many criminal illegals are around. The cabinet doesn't even know the residence status of terrorist suspects. This lack of understanding of major problems must, of course, be remedied quickly and therefore, as regards crime, it is now necessary to keep a standard record of whether the perpetrator is Dutch, status holder, asylum seeker or illegal. This should not be swept under the carpet, but mapped out. I'd like a response. What we do know is that the cabinet, with its unforgivable open borders policy, has created a massive wave of crime. In 2016 alone, approximately 20,000 foreigners were arrested by the police. Asylum search centers became predatory nests and we saw shocking rape cases involving perpetrators from countries like Sudan and Somalia. We also know that the approach to these problems is far from satisfactory. It begins with the fact that criminal asylum seekers are not always prosecuted and thus get away with their misconduct. As an explanation for this, the cabinet states that rapid expulsion is sometimes better than prosecution, but in practice the police see that this rapid expulsion is often absent. And here again we have the problem of a lack of information which means that nothing can be controlled. For example, the cabinet did not know how often asylum seekers' cases are dismissed. Of course you can't. Instead of quickly giving the equipment of asylum seekers a one-way ticket to the country of origin, the cabinet comes up with special asylum seekers' centres for the problems. Yeah, that's how you keep the problems here and, of course, never solve the case. Furthermore, we see that criminal asylum seekers can simply end up in the street after their application for residence has been rejected. They're often not locked down and they're often not deported. The cabinet has therefore completely lost its grip on the problems and saddles Dutch society with them. That's gonna have to change soon. I'd like a response. Of course, the PVV always pleads for a complete asylum stop, but this cabinet, knowingly, still treats criminals among the asylum seekers to a residence permit. For example, if an asylum seeker has been in prison for five months, that is no reason for the cabinet to reject the application for asylum. That can't be explained to anyone. The border is now six months in prison, but of course any crime in the asylum procedure must lead to a rejection of the application. As long as that does not happen, every word about tackling asylum crime is worthless.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Criminality by asylum seekers often keeps the moods in society very busy. Unfortunately, fact and fiction sometimes get mixed up. It is therefore very important that we are transparent and honest. By far the majority of asylum seekers behave properly, but unfortunately there are also exceptions. We shouldn't run away from that. I therefore find it regrettable that the police initially took such a limited view of De Telegraaf's WOB request for the chairman: Public Administration Act of De Telegraaf. This nourishes the mistrust and is bad for the support for the reception of refugees. I would therefore like to know from the Minister whether he agrees with me and what steps he has taken to deal more generously with this type of WOB requests in the future from the outset. For real refugees there is always room for D66. People who are not allowed to stay in the Netherlands must, of course, leave as soon as possible. Police figures show that a large proportion of the offences committed among asylum seekers are committed by people from safe countries, which are therefore usually not allowed to remain in the Netherlands. The most important thing, as far as I am concerned, is that these people leave the Netherlands as soon as possible. Short, effective procedures and a good expulsion policy are therefore very important. If people commit crimes, they must be investigated and punished. But sometimes there's the opportunity to turn people off before they've been in court. When it comes to lighter offences, I can understand that. Especially when it comes to people who regularly go wrong, it is nice to get rid of those types quickly. The individual consideration is always up to the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is of the utmost importance that the police and the Public Prosecutor cooperate closely with the IND and the Return and Departure Service. We must prevent people who commit repeated offences from slipping away between two systems. My question to both leaders is therefore where there are bottlenecks in this cooperation between the police and judicial chain and the alien chain, and what measures can still be taken to prevent these bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u4	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to facts, I fear that this will be a bit of a repetition of Question Time on 4 July, but that is not a problem in itself. Then things will be made clear again. It is clear and clear: every Dutchman, whether he has a residence status... Well, a Dutchman has his residence status, so that is not the right formulation. Every Dutchman, every stranger, every asylum seeker who goes beyond offences and certainly crimes, deserves punishment. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure that this happens. Failure to do so gnaws at the roots of the rule of law. As the State Secretary himself points out, the Public Prosecutor's Office chooses in some cases not to prosecute asylum seekers but rather to expel them. The SGP is in favour of expulsion, but the practice is unwieldy. The expulsion is not always possible, but we do not want the asylum seeker to be punished and then expelled. The SGP therefore wants asylum seekers who behave badly to be prosecuted, including shoplifting and disorderly conduct. After serving the sentence, the alien will be evicted. If necessary, part of the sentence can be used as a stick behind the door to ensure that an asylum seeker actually leaves. If we are on work visits, then we get signals that it can work very well in this way. The Secretary of State indicated at the beginning of this year that 480 convicted foreigners left in connection with a prison sentence. Now it might sound a bit harsh: a stranger who misbehaves, has to leave. Of course, we understand that there is a need to talk about which offences or offences are linked to such an additional sanction, if it may already be a sanction, but that is another discussion, so I will leave that for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u5	I have an enlightening question. You said: I believe that any asylum seeker or unwanted stranger who has committed a crime, even if it is a shoplifting, should serve a sentence before he is deported. I understand this emotion very well. I also want people who have done something wrong to be punished. I'm just asking what's going on here. Would you like to remove the assessment from the D.A.'s office to make a possible decision against seposing? Or are you saying that I would really like the D.A. to always make that decision, but I'm not taking away the power from the D.A. to make a decision on my own?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u6	The power to dismiss or not to dismiss is, in my opinion, not a point that you can remove from the D.A.'s office. That authority must remain with the D.A.'s office. In the end, there is one body that, if it goes well, can assess whether a case can be dismissed and whether that is desirable or not, and that is the Public Prosecutor. But we, as politicians and administrators, can say that we consider it desirable that persecution should take place. In doing so, we are not acting in the jurisdiction of the public prosecutor, or anything like that, but we are sending out a signal, also in view of the signals that come to us from society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u7	An argument from the cabinet to do so is that you could have a long trial and people should stay in detention, while there might be a glimpse of a quick eviction. Are you saying that serving the sentence should go for a quick eviction at all times?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u8	If an offence or a crime has been committed, it deserves punishment and enforcement. But you can take measures in their implementation and use a certain amount of space to speed up expulsion. In this way, through a combination of both the execution of a sentence and the use of a firm expulsion policy, you could make an excellent combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u9	But what crimes are we talking about? For the withdrawal of a permit, we are talking about six months from now. I call a pickpocket incident with an opportunity to deactivate quickly, for example to Albania. Are you still saying that the whole process should be conducted? Don't you give this cabinet the room to say that because we can put him on a plane tomorrow, we're going to turn him off tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u10	If we choose to do that, we choose to leave a crime unpunished. I don't think the expulsion is just enough sanction for a crime committed. I believe that it is preferable to proceed with the criminal proceedings and to find a form after the execution of the sentence in which the expulsion can be accelerated. You can combine that with forms of quick justice or whatever. That's how I'd like to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u12	Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. In the past year, 480 convicted foreigners have left in the wake of a prison sentence. What could be the objection to first prosecuting, punishing and partially enforcing all or part of the sentence to foreign nationals who behave badly, in particular offering opportunities for expulsion and subsequent expulsion? Finally, Mr President. Crimes must have consequences for the right of residence. In some cases, this is already the practice. Can the Secretary of State indicate how often this is applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u13	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. De Telegraaf wrote on 30 June that so-called asylum seekers from safe countries are hopping from one azc to another and are often criminally active. But even worse: some of these criminals are not prosecuted in the Netherlands. The police keep secret reports on this crime. My first question is: what about the latter? Why did this even involve a WOB request? And at whose request were these records kept? Mr. Chairman. Not only do I have great difficulty with the idea that these people come from other countries to the Netherlands to behave criminally here and then not to be prosecuted and punished. I also find it shocking to the people who have fled war and seeking violence and protection. Among other things, the reports describe that the police suspect that cases of arrested criminal asylum seekers are being dismissed because the expulsion of asylum seekers is faster if no criminal procedure is in place. The Secretary of State states in his response that this can indeed occur. Can the Minister explain where this idea came from with the police? And how does the Minister assess the situation that criminal asylum seekers are not being punished for their crime? I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether the so-called VRIS protocol takes account of the fact that certain countries do not participate in forced expulsion. A criminal offence committed by a foreigner may have consequences for his residence permit. I read that this is based on the so-called sliding scale method. The Secretary of State states that there is a link between the duration of a sentence imposed and the duration of the lawful stay in the Netherlands. But I think that's crazy. How does that relate to the tightening up of public order policy on asylum, where you should not be punished for 12 months but six months? Isn't it true that there was an act of action to take away from people who are misbehaving here their residence permits or not to renew them? On June 23rd of this year I read another remarkable article. This is about the assaulter in Hoorn. This article ends with the sentence that the possibility of this effect on the asylum seeker's status of residence has not been taken into account when determining the penalty by the court. I didn't know what I was reading. Does this happen at other times? Wasn't the judge's reaction in Hoorn the right one, namely that the criminal should have taken this into account before he behaved badly? Would the Secretary of State or the Minister like to examine what is going on in other courts in the Netherlands? Finally. I do not read much in the Secretary of State's response about criminal gangs travelling around pretending to be asylum seekers and that this is becoming a growing problem, for example among Albanians in Amsterdam. How are we working to fight these gangs? Can we work in cooperation with other countries with lists of hopping criminals who pose as asylum seekers so that they can be detained as soon as they are arrested or reported to an asylum-seekers' centre?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u15	Mrs Keijzer rightly refers to the sliding scale that applies to people who already have a residence permit. There is also another category of asylum seekers, who do not yet have a residence permit, are in proceedings and have committed a crime, and who still get a residence permit despite the fact that they have committed a crime. This is because the border is six months in prison. What does the CDA Group think about the fact that asylum seekers who have just arrived do not yet have a residence permit and who are directly guilty of a crime can simply collect residence permits from this State Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u16	I believe that the Secretary of State explained to all of us in a letter of May 2016 what that is like: by means of higher regulations, you can then deny a residence permit to people who have committed a serious crime with a certain penalty. By the way, the Secretary of State has even tightened conditional sentences. I always hear the PVV group say that there is never so much punishment in the Netherlands. I hear her always saying that there is far too little punishment. So in what situations would that be, I don't know, but that's a good question for the Secretary of State. If you ask me what I think, if you report here because you fled violence, then you are guilty of a serious crime, for example against the physical integrity of another person, I think you should be ashamed of yourself. I support the policy that, if even a suspended sentence is imposed, it is different, eh: you have six months and twelve months.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u17	I conclude from the answer that the CDA Group is in favour of government policy. You're talking about serious crimes. You're talking about the six-month border. In the case of treaty refugees, that border is even higher. So I find it a little disturbing that the CDA Group on the one hand says that we need to tackle the matter hard but on the other hand agrees that asylum seekers who have been in prison for five months simply get a residence permit. Mrs Keijzer also knows that you have to have a lot on your plate to get five months in jail. It's not normal to treat these people to a residence permit, is it? I hope that the CDA will really repent at this point. I also hope that the CDA will vote in future if a proposal, for example to oppose any crime committed in the asylum procedure, is put to the vote. Because that's the least you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u18	A fundamental difference between the PVV Group and the CDA Group is that we do care about international rules. We are looking, unlike the PVV Group, at how, within the rules we have set with each other, we can be incredibly sharp on people who abuse our systems. I really applaud the day when the PVV Group stops setting up this kind of easy one-two. Just take a look with the CDA Group at what we can really do now to make this sort of thing go another way. I have to think about what that means to the people who hit this. That assaulter in Hoorn has been punished for 18 months, and rightly so, but there have been situations in which there have been serious offences and even crimes, in which ultimately they have been punished. I have therefore, and you know the CDA, then asked the Secretary of State if, after lawyers have requested it, judges take into account that six months limit in their sentence. That would really be putting the horse behind the cart, because that is something that such a person, such a suspect, should have realized in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u19	Mr Fritsma may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u20	Mrs Keijzer is talking about respecting higher regulations. This regulation comes from Brussels. Brussels stands in the way of action being shown. The CDA in Brussels is always voting in favour of Brussels guidelines which ensure that we can solve almost nothing here in the area of foreign crime. So please put your hand in your own bosom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u21	You also have other places where beautiful, beautiful human rights treaties come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u22	Madam President. For a victim, it really doesn't matter what the perp's residence status was. What is important is that someone be punished: for a shoplifting, for a rape, for all crimes committed. This afternoon we had a debate in the same place with the Minister of Security and Justice on the enormous number of sepots. Seizing for no reason affects the sense of justice. That is why it is very good that it has been indicated that it is going to be investigated why the prosecution has so often closed the case. In today's letter from the Secretary of State, it becomes clear that sometimes the prosecution dismisses because the alleged offender has no legitimate residence and can be expelled from the Netherlands. It is not clear how many cases are involved. My question is whether the detentions of people without legal residence or in the Minister's research promised this afternoon can be carried out and, if not, what is necessary to do so. If the D.A. decides not to prosecute someone, but to bet on expulsion, it is important, as other colleagues have said, that the expulsion takes place quickly. Otherwise, you're gonna signal that crimes aren't being punished. Exactly that detachment, as is well known, is proving very difficult. I paid a visit to the p.i. last month. In Ter Apel. In this VRIS facility, foreigners are punished, sometimes for 20 years, and then have to leave the country. But there I also heard from the staff that, despite all kinds of efforts, it often does not work. If I understand the Secretary of State's letter correctly, I just don't know if I understood that part correctly. Perhaps 22% of these people will continue to hang in the Netherlands after serving their sentence, without a residence permit and therefore without a rehabilitation plan or without control. Is that right? If so, it seems to me that it is precisely for this category that we should be asking for difficulties. I'd like some more information on this. A good expansion policy requires agreements with countries where many people come from without legal residence, such as Morocco. What does the Secretary of State think that is necessary to make the agreement with Morocco to take over its own nationals? We all know that the European Union is now negotiating with several countries, but it is only successful in these readmission and readmission agreements with countries that I believe are largely not safe, such as Afghanistan, or where few people come from. But it's Morocco that can't do it. The question is what is needed to achieve a truly serious result there, preferably in the European Union. Otherwise, we're gonna stick around in "I can't do it." What's it really gonna take? The final point is the insecurity in the azc's. Last year, GroenLinks supported the initiative of colleague Azmani to set up additional guidance and monitoring locations in Amsterdam and in Hoogeveen where people who cannot be deported but have criminal behavior are going. Unlike my colleague from the PVV, I think it is very good that measures have been taken by the cabinet so that other asylum seekers are safe. My question, also following an earlier debate we had here today, including on staff, is whether enough staff have been found when setting up these centres and whether these centres can function in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u23	Mr. Chairman. Honestly, I think the message that led to this debate was somewhat tendentious, but it might also have been a reaction to the stubborn attitude of the national police to the provision of the desired information to the media. The latter was also regrettable in the eyes of the VVD, but let us not pretend that we do not punish criminal asylum seekers because we find it so pathetic. It often has a reason, for example that the evidence collection is insufficient. People from safe countries are also increasingly involved, i.e. people who are not at all at risk of obtaining an asylum permit and who should be expelled as soon as possible. But then the latter must also be done; that is what I am saying in the direction of the cabinet. If you don't want to comply with the law, we'd rather you leave the country. The same applies to asylum seekers who are still in procedure. The VVD has not ensured for nothing that the commission of criminal offences has become heavily involved in the proceedings. For example, the public order policy has been considerably strengthened by this State Secretary and the penalty for refusing or withdrawing the asylum permit has been substantially reduced. In addition, the Secretary of State has ensured that asylum seekers can be banned from the territory or previously detained in alien detention so that they can subsequently be deported. Two aso-azc's will also be opened in autumn, as Mrs Buitenweg pointed out. It's a long-cherished wish from me and my party to separate harassers and nuisancers instead of taking the victims out of their neighborhood. The decision whether or not to prosecute someone for a criminal offence is ultimately up to the Public Prosecutor's Office, as has already been said tonight in interruptions. In the event of a minor offence, the VVD can imagine that criminal prosecution before the Public Prosecutor's Office does not outweigh a lasting departure from the Netherlands, especially in cases where you run the risk that the person concerned will not be able to be expelled later. But the VVD believes that this cannot be the standard. The standard must be that foreigners who commit criminal offences do not escape their punishment, after which expulsion can take place. I'd like a response from the cabinet on this point. But this also applies to asylum seekers who have been processed. Without wishing to comment on individual cases, I am always far from being concerned about matters in which the judge finds detention too difficult, but the asylum seekers who have been tried could not impose community service. In these cases, too, they must not avoid their punishment. If that paper is pricking until they can be turned off, it's pricking paper. I would therefore like to conclude with a response from the Minister on this point too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u24	I ask Mr Azmani whether he himself is not tired of all these broken promises, both from his own party and from the cabinet. I've put together a few statements from Prime Minister Rutte. "Criminal asylum seekers must be locked up. Better yet, they have to get lost." He literally used the word "get lost." What do we see in practice? They don't come under lock and key. They're getting their own asylum-seekers center. So they will not be deported, because they will have their own asylum-seekers centre. I see the Secretary of State shaking no, but they even get a residence permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u25	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u26	I cannot repeat it often enough: asylum seekers who have committed a crime will be granted a residence permit, unless prison time is six months or more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u27	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u28	The question is whether Mr Azmani is not tired of broken promises. Mr Rutte says that they have to leave, but in practice they get a residence permit. Can Mr Azmani explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u29	This evening Mr Fritsma brings another caricature to the scene. I just happened to look at DT&V's expulsion figures and the recent July review of what has taken place in the last six months. 660 foreigners or asylum seekers were expelled with a conviction. That is not the picture that Mr Fritsma also outlined in Oral Question Time, namely that this cabinet would not expel criminal asylum seekers from the country. The aso-azc's have everything to do with bullies. I do not need to explain to Mr Fritsma what this bullying entails in the case of a refugee. No matter how condemning a harassing refugee, so do I: you want them to get out of here. There are limits and obstacles to that. Then I would prefer those people to be in a separate facility, where the bath water is coldened, rather than in facilities where they are bothering other real refugees. That is the choice that was made in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u30	The figures I used in Question Time were literally from the COA incident reports provided by the Secretary of State. So the cabinet figures have been used. But my question remains. Surely you cannot agree with the Prime Minister saying that criminal asylum seekers should leave, but agree that they should be granted a residence permit? It's adjacent to folklore. You say we're gonna take 'em down, we're gonna lock 'em up, we're gonna shut 'em down, and they're gonna have to go. Those are literally the Prime Minister's words. And then you just give them a residence permit and you don't turn them off, but you put them in a separate, expensive azc while of course they have to go to the country of origin. That's bordering on folklore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u31	This is still cheap rhetoric. Mrs Keijzer mentioned that too. It is such a pity that the PVV does not think any further about what is possible within the rule of law and in human rights treaties to make it difficult for these troublemakers. The moment you can't evict an assailant, because you can't send him back to the country in question, you can make the bath water so cold that someone likes to leave the country. I miss the creativity of the PVV, even in recent years, to look for these solutions and not to say with a hollow rhetoric: we're sending everyone out of the country, even though you stole a chocolate bar and you're a Syrian refugee! That's just selling fried air. It feels good, because we think that hospitality should never be abused, but that's not how the world works. So I challenge Mr Fritsma to come up with more creative solutions instead of this hollow rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u32	Mr. Chairman. DENK stands for a merciful Netherlands. It is a sign of civilisation that we can offer refugees safe refuge in our country. But this mercy must not be abused, because abuse puts pressure on social support for the reception of genuine refugees. And that's a bad thing. Last June, we read reports of nuisance and crime by some asylum seekers from safe countries; about people who apply for asylum without opportunity, misbehave and then, in some cases, avoid their punishment. DENK is clear about this: nuisance and crime must be punished and combated. DENK therefore has some questions for the ministers about the role of the Public Prosecutor. In the event of possible expulsion, as stated in the letter, a case is sometimes dismissed by the prosecution in order to promote the expulsion. The defendant then awaits his or her expulsion in freedom, which, according to the police, sends the undesirable signal that a crime will not be punished. My first question is: do the rulers share the view of the police that this is an undesirable signal? The police also indicate in the report of the Task Force V&M that there is a solution to this problem. Together with the State's Attorney General, it should be considered whether a form of rapid justice is possible, whereby a suspect who is found guilty until the expulsion is detained. I should like to hear from the rulers what they think of this proposal. Then there's the decision-making with the D.A.'s office. In individual cases, the D.A. may proceed to a dismissal and prefer rapid expulsion. But does the prosecution have any clear criteria on the basis of which a decision on such a dismissal is taken? Is there any clarity, for example, as to which offences are serious enough not to go into a sepot? And can the rulers guarantee that occupation and capacity at the D.A. never play a role in a decision to place expulsion over criminal investigation? In addition to decision-making, we do not have a good idea of the scale of the problem. According to the Minister, the D.A. does not register residence status during the task. Why isn't this registration taking place? Wouldn't it be better if this did happen? Finally, a point about the scope of the debate on asylum seekers. The PVV is doing whether asylum seekers are already robbing and raping our country. The PVV demonises, discriminates and demolishes a group of people who have had to flee from war and danger. DENK will always fight the PVV. The worst thing is that the generalising expressions of the PVV are downright hypocritical. If we apply the PVV's logic to the PVV itself, it turns out that 2.4% of asylum seekers are suspected of one or more crimes, based on the police figures, while 5% of the PVV group in the Lower House has been convicted by the criminal court. In doing so, the PVV Group is twice as criminal as the asylum seekers that it has denounced. I would therefore like to say to the PVV: above all, put your hand in your own bosom. I would like to ask the rulers: is it not time for a PVV crime task force?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u33	With this kind of nonsense, I often tend to let it go, but I would just like to point out that it is a bit sad to link asylum crime to the condemnation of my group chairman. You cannot equate this with a scandalous political process, where the verdict is clearly wrong and where it is to be hoped that the judiciary recovers it on appeal, if it still has a little bit of sense. I'd like to give that to you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u34	The PVV always tends to judge at its own discretion whether or not they are justified. I believe that we have agreed to accept the Constitution and our constitutional system. I always notice that the PVV only does this when it suits it, regardless of the international conventions in which it also shop selectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u35	This too is hypocritical. Mr Azarkan himself knows that. Everyone has an opinion about the punishment that Volkert van der Graaf, for example, received for the murder of Fortuyn. Even VVDs said the sentence was too low. VVDs said he shouldn't be released early. So what are you talking about? It is on the agenda of the day that court rulings are commented on by everyone here. If you say the PVV does, that's very hypocritical. I would like to draw your attention to the general's pardon and to all those court rulings which meant that people had to leave the Netherlands and had no right of residence. Half of the Chamber, almost the entire Chamber, says, "Don't take any of the judgments; here's a general's pardon." Yet these strangers had already been told by the judge several times that they had to leave. So please stop with the hypocritical shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u36	I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u37	Mr. Chairman. So much for the DENK versus PVV. Crime needs to be addressed. The same applies to Dutch people and also to foreigners. According to an article in De Telegraaf, criminal asylum seekers from safe countries are not regularly prosecuted because it would prevent their expulsion. In some cases, we even see that persecution goes off the table and so does expulsion. That's the upside-down world. Can the Secretary of State confirm this? The fact that persecution of foreigners would stand in the way of expulsion raises the question of whether or not to prosecute. However, I understand from the letter from the government that persecution can indeed take place while at the same time the expulsion is being carried out. What is it now? If expulsion is possible, the Public Prosecutor decides whether the criminal investigation should prevail over the expulsion. The question is whether this is satisfactory in all cases. The Secretary of State's letter seems to suggest that in the event of non-serious offences, it is sometimes decided not to prosecute because that expulsion would stand in the way. Why not, in the event of a minor offence, be prosecuted simultaneously by the D.A. and be worked on expulsion by the Return and Departure Service? I think that is the preferred route. I'd like a response. 'Cause, Mr. President, imagine someone being deported without serving his sentence. Will the prosecution be reported to the receiving country? Are we going to let Germany know, for example? Or do we say: it's your problem now, good luck with it? Finally, I would like to ask what is happening with the group of asylum seekers from safe countries who cause a relatively high level of nuisance. This is very undesirable. These people have no business here. Is it possible to reduce the influx of this group? Is it possible to deactivate these nepasile seekers if they have been rejected? I have also received a motion to use more forcefully the forced return of rejected asylum seekers. That motion is from May 11th. This is very important in order to maintain support for asylum policy. What is the situation with regard to talks with countries such as Morocco and Algeria, which is particularly important in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u38	Mr. Fritsma, I haven't tied the number of interruptions to a maximum, but you're here with almost every speaker. Did you intend to interrupt everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u39	Not every speaker, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u40	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u41	Well, almost. This will then be something that I can promise the last in terms of Members' contributions. I'll save the rest for the cabinet. I had one short question. The story of Mr Van Dijk is clear in itself: criminal asylum seekers have no business here. But how does this relate to Mrs Marijnissen's statement on television this morning, namely that sending criminal asylum seekers back is too far-reaching for the SP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u42	Yeah, I didn't see that broadcast. So that's gonna be a little tricky. Perhaps the President would like to grant Mr Fritsma an additional interruption in the second term. Then we'll take a look at the fragment together. I am sure she meant that well, because we know of course from the government too, and you also asked Mr Azmani that within a certain period, namely up to six months, there is not yet a direct expulsion. That was your point in your own contribution. The essence of my speech is that persecution and expulsion should not stand in the way of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u43	Does the SP support the government's policy that the border should be at six months' imprisonment? Or does the SP support the common sense that that border really needs to be tightened up to simply filter out criminal asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u44	Wait a minute, you're confusing the PVV with common sense, I understand. We need to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u45	It was a deliberate remark, Mr President. And that's exactly what I meant, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u46	No, I'll answer the question. I read that the government has the policy of accelerating the removal of asylum seekers. That was not too long ago early from 12 to 6 and from 24 to 12 months in certain variations. My proposal is to take a good look at how this is going to work in the coming period. If you don't like it, we'll get back together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u47	Mr. Chairman. The problem of asylum is getting worse. And again it is not because of transparency of government, but again it is the frustration with the police, who is calling the bell and has her lines to the newspaper De Telegraaf. And so we were also in possession of the letter from the Secretary of State. I really read about this problem. I'm restricting myself to the robbing, bouncing, robbing, that's what you can say too, robbing highway robbers. Actually, that's what I read in the coverage. I would like to confine myself to that, i.e. to the safe country-free asylum seekers, who are bumping and bumping. Let me just call it that. Then you think, "What's in the letter?" It states that the prosecution does not know how many cases have been dismissed against asylum seekers because this designation is not registered with the suspect. You're gonna lose the shoes. Isn't that the first thing you start with? You want to know who's getting you into the house, don't you? They are total strangers with a story that may still rage on all sides. The external appearance of the stranger indicates a safe country. He's committing crimes, and you're gonna dismiss him. And you don't keep track of how many times you do that. That's so silly. First of all, in my best judgment, you want to know what you're getting at home. Secondly, in assessing his refugee status, his asylum needs or his flight story, it may be important to take note of the criminal stature he has built up here in the meantime. I think it's a good idea to keep track of what he really does with getting here. Can the government tell me why it's not being kept up to date? Then the article from De Telegraaf. The frustration sprang from it as agents describe that some of the asylum seekers are not even being prosecuted. The task force, which appears to be operational, has also found out that this frustration sprang from it in several units. Is the Minister or the Secretary of State now aware of the content of the findings of the task force, where it all falls apart? And do they know what exactly causes the frustration? I can guess. Then there's one more thing. I read in the letter that there will be a new commitment from the government. That commitment will lead to previous foreign detention. I'd like to know: how? Then we have a very interesting point. The people from the safe countries, I read, are two thirds of all the suspects who are bumping and hopping around in this country. The release, which is so much frustration about, sometimes has the reason that one does not want to frustrate the expulsion procedure. That's also confirmed in the letter. Often then and not punished and not deported. And so the principle of opportunity is used with the possibility of expulsion in mind. I don't think that's right. The knife cuts both ways. If there is a hopping gentleman here, I shall confine myself to doing so, and the Public Prosecutor, in his assessment of the principle of opportunity, is going to consider whether it might frustrate the expulsion, then he must stop that thought immediately. He should simply give priority to the security of the state and apply the criteria for pre-trial detention and insurance. He can do that, because there are grounds for remand with these gentlemen. They're a flight risk; they've proven it. Often they're recidivists. They have no permanent residence or residence. And they commit crimes; that's what I'm talking about right now. So there's plenty of reason to be remanded. Then you just continue the expulsion procedure. I also ask the Minister if that's already happening and follow the 'airplane staircase method'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u48	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u49	The moment there is an airplane, and the opportunity gets through to the prosecutor and people want to do it differently, he gets a withdrawal of his subpoena and the notification that he is not being prosecuted, and then he's gone. It's as simple as that. So I have asked three questions, and I would also like to comment on my last point on the 'airplane staircase method'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u50	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Crimes committed by asylum seekers, those who call on the protection of the Netherlands, are understandable and rightly the cause of great indignation. If it turns out to be about people who abuse an asylum procedure, then it is double wrong. And if it turns out that people are not being prosecuted and are not being deported, then that is really unacceptable. According to De Telegraaf's report, something must be done about this. This report gave rise to this debate. However, in the letter we received from the Secretary of State, it hardly deals with the combination of 'condemned, yet released and not expelled'. It is understandable that, on the basis of the opportunity principle, the Public Prosecutor's Office decides to give priority to expulsion if that can be settled rather than a conviction. When it is not a matter of serious crimes, it seems to us to be fair and sensible. But, like almost all other colleagues, can the Secretary of State indicate in how many cases there are no prosecutions, but there are no expulsions? Because we can't get that out of the letter. Doesn't the Secretary of State consider it appropriate to prosecute in such cases? With the police sources quoted, we can ask ourselves whether it is desirable to dismiss a suspect if he cannot be deported equally. It is true that the police are concerned about this, so I ask the Minister. Will crimes against personal integrity be dismissed, such as threats, assaults, rapes or violence? Does it occur that asylum seekers are suspected of a crime involving six or more months of unconditional imprisonment? Is it possible that these cases will be dismissed and the defendant will not be deported? If so, how often does that occur? The Secretary of State writes in his letter that the Public Prosecutor's Office cannot indicate how many cases have been dismissed against asylum seekers because they are not registered. Arrested foreigners are, however, registered, he writes. It seems to me that, on the basis of the registrations, there should be some insight into the number of cases dismissed following the arrests. I like to get a reaction. Is the Minister for Security and Justice prepared to register this in the future? Offences committed by foreigners can also affect foreigners who still have an application. Can the Secretary of State indicate in how many cases a residence permit is refused or withdrawn on the basis of a criminal offence committed? We also miss the figures in the letter from the Secretary of State. Finally. The Secretary of State reports that 480 convicted foreigners left in the first five months of this year following their imprisonment. I am actually very curious about how many have not left after the conviction, even though their sentence gave rise to the withdrawal of their residence permit. Can the Secretary of State give those figures, too? I'm asking for numbers because I didn't see them in the letter. So I can't estimate exactly how big the problem, the frustration of the police, is. I like to hear those numbers. It might be a solution to put someone in a foreign detention earlier, but then we have to make an analysis based on the figures. I am therefore anxiously waiting for the Secretary of State's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u52	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u53	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is not the first time we have talked to the Chamber about the policy of persecution of refugees and asylum seekers. For me, the main line, as I have already said, is that the Public Prosecutor's Office does not have a standard procedure to prosecute refugees or asylum seekers in no way or less. Many of you asked: the main line is that in the Netherlands, regardless of your residence status, you will be prosecuted if you commit an offence or commit a crime. However, in addition to the principle of opportunity, the Public Prosecutor has the opportunity to decide on prosecution. It can involve how it works in the ability to deport a stranger. It is not a standard policy to prosecute no less. I found this at the heart of the question, which is why I am starting with it. The questions relating to police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and once or twice the judiciary will be answered by me. The Secretary of State will answer the questions relating to foreign law and the alien chain. I will answer in the order of the questioners, so I will start with Mr Fritsma's question, which first asked why a WOB request was needed. Others also went into that. Let me start by repeating that the way in which the WOB request was handled was unfortunately not good. That's what the police reported themselves. I am politically responsible for the police, so for my part too: we did not do that right. There are lessons learned from that. As I often say in this Chamber: where people work, mistakes are made, so I cannot guarantee that it never goes wrong. I think we should learn from it. It is also quite right that a comprehensive assessment was carried out later. Mr Fritsma asked: can the police not register residence status in all offences and crimes? Mr Hiddema also discussed this in detail later. The police record the nationality. Registering the residence status sounds simple when you pronounce it, but the execution is extremely complicated. This applies both to the police and to, if there is later a judicial procedure, the Public Prosecutor's Office and/or the court. The residence status of a person can change, and that can happen quite quickly. This is especially true when someone follows the path of asylum seeker to status holder, and he may have to go through a lengthy procedure in between. It is therefore very difficult to reliably record the residence status at the personal level. That registration can only be correct at a certain point in time. Nationality is a constant of the type you can automate. I understand that the questioners are referring to this: can you not draw from a system the residence status? In fact, it is not justified to draw this from a system, which is perfectly possible with nationality. That is why both the police and the judicial chain cannot keep up with the status of residence. If you're going to look very closely, you'll be able to get information about it afterwards. That is the case, among other things, in the research we are talking about. I will explain later why this has happened. But the residence status is not suitable for automation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u55	The reason why it was such a mess with that information to De Telegraaf, because that was just it, is precisely that that residence status is not registered. The government could not answer the simplest questions. How many criminal illegals are there? How many criminal asylum seekers are there? How many of these are still in the Netherlands? The cabinet just doesn't know. Surely we in the Chamber cannot check whether the fight against asylum and illegal crime is successful if there is no information at all? The request to the cabinet is to register the residence status. The Minister's remark that this status is changing is not valid, because you can change it in the systems. You can update on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u56	I have had a lot of debates in the Chamber earlier on ICT pathways and the question of why it went wrong, because that was what it was all about. But an equally relevant question is what is the condition for them to go well. A very crucial condition in ICT projects is that you can standardize, so things can be clearly recorded. This can also change the nationality of a person, but this happens less frequently, but the status of residence will change with one person, especially with the target group we are talking about: first asylum seeker, later possibly recognised refugee and later perhaps even person with Dutch nationality. Suppose you have a procedure that lasts months or years. Of course, this can be done very well, especially in the case of more serious crimes, because there can also be appeals. How do you register that person? Do you then register it as an asylum seeker that may be so in the first few weeks or as a person with a fixed-term residence permit that will be the period after that or as a person who now has Dutch nationality? The latter could be the case if someone stayed under the radar for a while but was prosecuted later. I'm talking about one person. Isn't that abracadabra coming out of a computer system like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u57	No, this answer is abracadabra. As long as the residence status isn't registered, we don't know anything. The PVV has asked the Minister how many terrorists there are in the asylum influx. The answer is that, unfortunately, the status of terrorists is not maintained. We can't work like this. Again, register that residence status. Those technical problems of yours can be solved. As long as this does not happen, it seems as if the cabinet is afraid of reality or has something to hide. We can't settle for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u58	Mr Fritsma is making things far too easy for himself here. I gave him an example. I challenge him to indicate how he would register this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u59	It is very simple: if someone is an asylum seeker, register him as an asylum seeker and if he has a residence permit, register him as a status holder. These are the different residence status categories that can, of course, be registered on. Register...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u60	Now Mr Fritsma mentions two residence statuses for the same person. What residence status does he want him with now in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u61	Don't you want to get mixed up? Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u62	If information changes, you need to change it with you. It's that simple, isn't it? Register if someone is Dutch, asylum seeker, status holder or illegal. As long as that does not happen, we do not know anything at all and you can hide the hard facts about asylum and foreign crime. We can't settle for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u63	Mr Fritsma cannot, therefore, indicate here himself in a specific case of the type we are talking about here, in which way he wants to return the person. If he can't do it himself, he can't expect it from me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u64	I've heard it. I still think Mr Fritsma's question is an ornament of simplicity. The Minister's answer is excellent, but I don't get it. If an asylum seeker here, we think, commits a crime, maybe it's a big-time crime, but that doesn't matter, it's not that hard, it seems to me, to verify how that man is currently registered. Is that so hard? If that status ever changes, then surely it must be possible, with the technical ingenuity that surrounds us all, to keep up with that? Is that the problem we have now with the observation of government that the prosecution does not know how many cases against asylum seekers have been dismissed? That's weird, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u65	I have the same question to Mr Hiddema. We're talking about one person who's been in the asylum seeker's position for a while. Afterwards he has the position of a person with a fixed-term residence permit and then he may have Dutch nationality. That's one person. How do you want him back out of that system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u66	Work fast! The moment the man is taken out of a store, they end up at the police station, they start snooping about how he's registered and they find that information. Now it's done! Then you know that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u67	Mr Hiddema knows more than anyone how long a procedure can last. That's his day job. It's not like every procedure is completed in a week, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u68	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u69	No. Well then!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u70	Well, I know that in identifying some types, if there are major interests at stake, the police can communicate very quickly with other corps and services. It'd be a nice place! We can't arrest the suspect one, two, three, we don't know his nationality. It can change, too, and it could take a few months. Yeah, who are you looking for? End of criminal justice! But this is also a criminal investigation, isn't it? The man commits a crime. There's absolutely no verification of how that man is registered, what he's already said about what he's doing here and how he's ever signed himself in. Well, I don't understand why that can't be figured out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u71	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u72	And that tempo change of statuses, well, then keep it tidy! That's not such a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u73	Mr Hiddema says in succession that nothing is being kept. That's incorrect. I have indicated that the nationality is kept, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u74	I don't think there's any record of anything in a lot of cases either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u75	Mr Hiddema, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u76	Because it's easy to register. When it comes to the status of residence, that was the question asked by Mr Fritsma, who was later asked by Mr Hiddema, I indicated why this is so complex that it does not provide good information either. I note, quite frankly, that Mr Hiddema is also running into this dilemma. But that's something other than saying there's no record.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u77	Finally, Mr Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u78	I can only say that it is said that it is very complicated. Apparently, it is so complicated that the Minister cannot begin to explain this complex matter here. I don't think that's a very pleasant situation for a ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u79	I note that Mr Hiddema also has no solution to the situation I have outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u80	I'm not a minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u81	I have just listened to the Minister's explanation that there is no other solution. I take it for granted at the moment, but the D.A.'s office makes an occasional decision to dismiss a case. In doing so, the D.A. has a view that someone can be deported quickly. Is such an argument even registered? After all, when we were talking about an investigation this afternoon, we talked about the need to investigate precisely what the prosecution's argument is to dismiss so many cases. Then I wonder: is that perhaps a coat rack to find out how many cases are dismissed for this reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u82	I already indicated that you can't automatically record this reliably, but that when you're actually going to go through targeted files and start ticking, you can get similar information. That's also the type of investigation we're talking about right now. That's what happened inside the police. I would like to take Mrs Buitenweg's request along with the research I promised this afternoon. If it's possible to extract that information manually, I'm very interested in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u83	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u84	Mr Groothuizen asked me, also in view of the fact that this request for a WED was initially not properly answered, whether lessons have been learned from this. I hope I have already indicated in my introduction that this is the case. The Public Administration Act is there for a reason. It is also very important that the answer is as complete as possible. That should have happened right here. So that is also the commitment to new applications, of which I can assure you that very many are being submitted. Mr Bishop's question will answer the Secretary of State. Mrs Keijzer asked why the investigation, which eventually came out through the WOB request, was drawn up. Later on, Mr. Hiddema went into this. The investigation was prepared at the request of the alien chain by the Foreign Affairs Task Force and Migration Crime in order to obtain a better picture of the crime committed by foreigners, especially during the peak in the asylum influx as it took place at that time. For there were signs that have also been discussed here in the Chamber on a regular basis that there was a connection between migration, asylum influx and crime. So it was a targeted investigation of this question. Mrs Keijzer also asked what the police are registering. I hope I have just answered that, even in the interrupting debates. Mrs Keijzer asked me to deal specifically with the phenomenon of criminal asylum seekers hopping around the country in the form of gangs. That's one of the public prosecutor's spearheads. National coordinating prosecutors have been appointed to address this issue. Because the phenomenon also occurs in a number of our neighbouring countries, an action plan has also been organised at EU level to exchange knowledge and also to ensure that where gangs operate in different countries, detection is coordinated. Mrs Buitenweg asked us how we will take the removals with us in the investigation. I just answered that in response to an interruption. I can indeed confirm to Mr Azmani that it is really the standard in the Netherlands that you are being prosecuted regardless of your residence permit if there are offences or crimes. He asked me to deal specifically with the situation that community service might be the most appropriate, but community service will not be applied in practice because someone has to leave the country. There is a community penalty framework at the Public Prosecutor's Office, which also contains a number of contraindications. On the one hand, this has to do with the gravity of crimes, but on the other hand, it has to do with the willingness and ability of the accused to carry out that community service. On the basis of that balancing framework and the contraindications, the Public Prosecutor's Office will logically not come to community service when anyone can think that a person will not carry it out. That consideration will also be made logical for someone who has to leave the country in the short term. Mr Azarkan asked whether the capacity of the Public Prosecutor's Office plays a role in the consideration of whether or not to prosecute. The Public Prosecutor's Office has objective criteria, the Designation use secret grounds, on the basis of which it is decided. A state's attorney may be motivated by that, but they're both substantive considerations. That is separate from the capacity debate. There are more often discussions in your Chamber about the capacity in the criminal justice chain, where you hear from me, including in this case, that the police and the Public Prosecutor can do their work responsibly, that no doubt everyone would be happy if more money was added, but that it is not the case that they are not able to do the prosecution that should also be done. It is in any case the case that the decision to dismiss is made on the basis of an objective basis. Mr Azarkan asked how it would be prevented from being dismissed for expulsion, but that the expulsion would not succeed, which would be the end result of not being punished but not being expelled. When considering whether the rapid expulsion should have an impact on the penalty chosen by the Public Prosecutor, the question whether expulsion is realistic is indeed taken into account. There are a number of countries where this is very difficult or even impossible. In such a case, because that information is also shared in the alien chain, the Public Prosecutor will not assume the fiction that is being evicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u85	Before you continue, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u86	The Minister is right to say that there are countries to which it is difficult to return. That's right. I also tabled a motion in May of this year to make greater use of agreements with those countries to which it is difficult to return. The government also writes: we are going to contact Algeria and Morocco to improve that return. Can the Minister tell us how the return of rejected asylum seekers to these countries is progressing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u87	If it were easy, we wouldn't be standing here. Under international law, countries are simply obliged to include their own nationals, I think that is a lousy word, but still people of their nationality. Now we in the Netherlands are off the line: you implement international treaties. I'm very much in favour of that. Mr Baudet would even say: pacta sunt servanda. Unfortunately, that is not the case in the whole world. It is not so difficult to imagine that countries have their reasons for doing so. These are often economic reasons. The communities in another, generally richer country... and the Netherlands is a very rich country.. are often a source of income. Or they want concessions in return. Unfortunately, this is true in a number of countries where relatively large numbers of foreigners come from. We hope to get a move on this by doing it at EU level. That is actually more the area of the Secretary of State, which can undoubtedly tell us more about it. It is still more annoying to have an argument with the whole EU than with the Netherlands alone. So it is really being coordinated, but if only we could force one of those countries to comply with international law when we move to Algeria or China. Then I hope you will table a lot of motions, because that would make the world a lot better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u88	Well, who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u89	That's entrapment. I realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u90	Yeah, exactly. I did not actually plan a second term, but if the Minister invites me to do so. No, I await the answer of the Secretary of State, but I would like to add that it is remarkable that a country such as Spain is able to achieve a good return to a country such as Morocco. I would say: there may be something to learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u91	I do not know if all the countries that manage to deport people do so in a way that everyone will address here, but again, the commitment is to proceed in a decent way to expulsion. Mr Voordewind asked to indicate numerically for which offences are being dismissed and whether there could be more serious offences. To begin with the last question, sepot can also be applied to more serious crimes, because it can also be quite factually that the evidence cannot be obtained, so that the crime that can be registered will be quite difficult, but in the preliminary judicial investigation it appears that it is so difficult to get the evidence that it is still going to sepot. The numbers, and specifically those relating to asylum seekers or status holders, fall under the same category as I mentioned with Mrs Buitenweg. I'll try to get them up in the announced investigation. I hope I have answered the questions put to me from the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u92	Does that mean that the Secretary of State will answer my question about how judges deal with the imposition of less severe penalties so that public order policy, i.e. the withdrawal of a residence permit, is not on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u93	It is a good thing that Mrs Keijzer calls it, because that is indeed within my area. Moreover, I have understood the judgment in Hoorn in such a way that the judge has imposed a penalty which may lead to the withdrawal of residence status. In any case, this is a sample of one case which shows that such a serious penalty is simply imposed with associated residence consequences. Mrs Keijzer will agree with me that in a rule of law I should not influence how judges deal with it. I can look at this, but for the sake of justice I need the Council to find out whether there is any information on the relationship between residence status and judgments. But that will be a very factual report, because I am not going to send it in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u94	I understand the separation of powers, but shouldn't justice also appeal to the fact that if it is punished lower because otherwise it would have consequences for a residence permit, which leads to disbelief in society? People will ask: how can this be? The Secretary of State has rightly tightened the policy. In the case of serious crimes, a sentence of six or twelve months may have consequences for a residence permit. Then it can't be that every time just below that limit comes out to be able to draw the consequence. That's my opinion. I welcome the Minister's commitment that he and the Council of Justice will look at how things work out in practice. I'm glad. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u95	In his letter, the Secretary of State comes up with an improvement plan. One of the points of improvement will be his increased commitment to achieving an earlier foreign detention. I just asked the government how that's gonna happen. What does the Secretary of State have in mind? I also read that it must be done at European level. Communication one-on-one in the Netherlands is not so easy, but at European level that does not seem to me to be a quick issue at all. Can the Secretary of State tell you, because that's the question I asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u96	The Secretary of State will be speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u97	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u98	I wanted to give him the floor, but there was obviously a supplementary question from Mrs Keijzer to me. Maybe from your colleagues, too, but I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u99	Then we'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u100	I ask the Secretary of State to take this point with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u101	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u102	I just want to say a few words, Madam President. All assumptions are made about what judges generally judge on the basis of one piece in a newspaper about a judge in Hoorn, but I don't think we know that at the moment at all and should not give us the suggestion that judges and masse listen to this or take this as a starting point for their consideration of the status of residence. We don't know. We have heard that this may be requested from the Council of Justice. I think that is a good thing, but I would like to correct this in case the picture arises that we now assume judges are already taking that into account, because we simply do not know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u103	That was a remark to Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u104	Hence my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u105	I have one more question for the Minister, which is about the substance of the matter that was the subject of the Telegraaf article, namely the frustration of the police because things would have been dropped and then there would have been no expulsion. In the letter from the Secretary of State, we read the reason why cases were dismissed, namely to accelerate their expulsion. We read in the letter that 480 criminal asylum seekers have left. They've been deported. But how many cases have been dropped that haven't been deported? Then we also know how big the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u106	To the question of numbers, I have just answered that I need additional research to do so, because I cannot draw these figures out of systems. But I also promised that we would do our utmost to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u107	We know from the letter that I believe it concerns 480 criminal asylum seekers who have been deported. So those figures seem to be extracted from the systems. But it must also be possible to get out of the systems how many cases have been dropped, and where they have not been turned off? Because that reflects the essence of the matter here. That's the frustration of the police, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u108	Then I come to the discussion I had with Mr Hiddema and Mr Fritsma, namely that nationality is registered but not residence status and that I cannot answer that question without additional manual examination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u109	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Fritsma's question. It was more of a statement he asked to respond to, namely that asylum seekers would not be detained and expelled. I cannot put it that way, because after a negative decision we are working on return and we are looking into whether there are grounds for detention if a foreigner does not want to leave on his own. If there are grounds, we will also proceed to detention and further work can be carried out on departure, forced or voluntary. Mr Azarkan asked why this cannot be done by everyone. We do that as often as possible, but that is also bound by rules. We can't put everyone in custody after rejection. In reply to Mr Hiddema's question, too, I would like to say the following. In recent times, we have improved the exchange of information and the formation of files, so that we have all the facts that can contribute to maintaining a stand-alone plea that detention is appropriate and that the requirements and standards for it are met. The other element is part of European legislation. It would help if there was a small adjustment. In the JHA Council, I urge my colleagues to convince the Commission that, in the revision of the European asylum legislation that is now coming, it will also take this element with it and adapt that rule for us so that we have more room in it and we can move faster to detention. In connection with the VRIS protocol, Mrs Keijzer asked whether countries that did not cooperate in return would be taken into account. The VRIS protocol describes the working arrangements between DT&V, police, KMar, DJI and OM, so that the alignment between the foreign and criminal justice chain is smooth and smooth. A criminal offence committed by a foreigner may have consequences for the right of residence. In doing so, you do not yet consider whether the country of origin does not cooperate with return. Of course it's ideal if it does. Then you can do so in the case of a criminal offence, which qualifies for withdrawal or non-authorisation of an asylum permit, namely also do so and then expel it. If it is difficult to close the case because the country of origin does not cooperate, then that is no reason not to withdraw or refuse a licence. Then that problem will remain. But the fact that the country of origin is difficult does not reward us with the granting of an asylum permit, also because self-employed return is possible. This is certainly the case if a punishment is imposed that can also link these things. In any case, it is not necessarily relevant for the VRIS protocol to put it first whether or not the country of origin cooperates. Let me put it this way: there is no country that never cooperates. The cases in which this happens can sometimes be counted on the fingers of half a hand, but the trajectory is always used. Mrs Buitenweg had asked about the 22% VRIS people who are not being deported. Most of them leave the Netherlands, but there are indeed foreigners who do not leave the Netherlands after punishment, despite the efforts we make. These are cases where the country of origin does not cooperate with forced return. We always check to see if foreign detention is possible after the detention. Are there grounds for this? How can we justify it? Anyway, you're gonna end up in the end, too. Then you're in the situation where the judge says that alien detention is improper and that the country of origin still says about forced return that it doesn't issue laissez-passer or any other necessary documents. Then you are indeed concerned with the fact that after a punishment and after alien detention, someone can no longer be held, even though they are not effectively returned to the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u110	May I ask if there are any contacts with this stranger without a residence status in the Netherlands? I'm thinking of parole or any other agency. Is there still some kind of control, at least is one still in conversation, as is done with Dutch ex-con?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u111	That's not because of their ex-con. We do not have resocialisation pathways for people we do not want to socialize or be part of in our society. The DT&V is the one addressed to keep in touch with them in order to keep that return file alive. This can be done by convincing the person in question that voluntary return is better than the perspectiveless existence in the Netherlands, or by convincing the country of origin to issue a laissez-passer for a forced return. Mrs Keijzer asked how the public order policy on asylum relates precisely to the sliding scale, with a longer stay also raising the threshold to be able to withdraw it. The sliding scale applies in principle to everyone, and is therefore not refugee bound. The same applies to expats, wedding migrants and people who have not had the right of residence in the Netherlands for a very long time. There is a sharper demand for asylum seekers. Of course, being a criminal isn't the reason they get asylum. Of course, it would be innocuous if this were the case, because nobody gets it. Most of the perpetrators we are talking about in today's debate will not receive asylum, even if they have only been punished for five months. That's because they come from safe countries. The question of asylum is, of course, completely separate from the assessment of whether they have gone wrong in criminal matters. If someone is entitled to asylum because he has fled war, but he has not become a fine person and is a criminal, then we have that other path. Such a person enjoys more protection, whereby we have reduced the requirement of subsidiary protection from 18 months to six months. Mrs Buitenweg also had a question about the ebtl and staff. There is enough staff to start in Amsterdam in the autumn, just like in Hoogeveen. There we work with experienced COA staff, supported by DJI employees. We'll make sure there's enough staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u112	I keep saying it: not rejecting criminal asylum seekers is a very big pain for the PVV. That limit is six months. Can the Secretary of State explain one more time in his own words why he agrees that an asylum seeker from, for example, Syria or Eritrea who has been in prison for five and a half months can still simply receive a residence permit? Can he try to explain that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u113	Of course. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u114	In addition to the explanation, can he indicate whether he considers it desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u115	Clear, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u116	I hadn't even started, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u118	Mr Fritsma starts by saying that criminal asylum seekers are not rejected. The first part is that a lot of criminal asylum seekers are rejected anyway because they are not entitled to protection. So then it doesn't matter how criminal they were and how much punishment they've had. People from safe countries, who are the most affected by numbers, such as people from Morocco, will not receive an asylum permit regardless of their punishment, except for very exceptional cases, for example when an individual in the country of origin is not safe. For people who really burden our society and do not belong here you have a problem if such a person behaves both badly and cannot return because he is not sure of his life in the country of origin. That's when those interests collide. I think we should get as tight as we can for our society there. That is why I have also looked at how I can set the bar as low as possible, while at the same time complying with the rules of the Refugee Convention, so that the judge can maintain it. I say quite honestly to Mr Fritsma that the six months is the nearest thing I can do. If I could have done it for three months, I would have, but I'm limited in that because of the Refugee Convention. I'm not gonna pretend that I would've put it on six months if the Refugee Convention had been okay for three months, because I would've put it on three months. I understand there's a conflict of interest. People who are actually refugees cannot be sent back to their country of origin if they are not sure of their lives, or if they are oppressed or persecuted there, but at the same time you want to use the measure that shows that we will not accept any behavior. From six months, it's over anyway. If it's five and a half months and if you make another mistake after that, we'll add it up. If it's community service, we'll charge it and add it to the list. Even if it's a suspended sentence, we add it in. So anything that's possible at that point, we'll do it. I believe that this is a major step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u119	Mr Fritsma, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u120	That step is nothing at all. If a Syrian or an Eritrean asylum seeker has been in prison for five and a half months, then he must have done a great deal in this country. Those are the facts. The Secretary of State is now keeping a very technical story, but he just has to make sure that it stops, because as long as this happens, the public order policy of this cabinet is not to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u121	Mr Fritsma always talks about five and a half months, because he knows that it is bingo from six months on. So it's a big deal, and something's not nothing. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the DT&V could also work on return during the prosecution and possibly the execution of the sentence. Yes, we can, and we will. Sometimes we also use an arrangement whereby people who do not cooperate in a forced return can be agreed to shorten the sentence in exchange for voluntary return. That's better off for our society. For example, with Dublin claims, you run the risk that the time limit for claiming to Italy, Germany or any other country will run if the prosecution and punishment last for a long time. With someone who comes from a country that is difficult to return to, you have the risk of giving him the punishment but having him in your society and having difficulty getting him out of it. So sometimes we have to choose pragmatically between two not optimal things, and then you choose to get rid of someone from our society. Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Dijk asked about Morocco and the return policy. That is perhaps a recurring issue of concern, because progress is not as we wish it to be. I think that the Minister was apt to reflect the differences in attitudes to international legal obligations, but unfortunately neither a motion nor our opinion from trade union K in such a country makes such an immediate impression that it changes its policy on that point. We have constant visits, exchanges and contacts at a high administrative level to see what contours might improve. If we get the impression that contact at political level is fruitful, we will certainly lay it down. At operational level, cooperation has already improved somewhat, namely in terms of identification. As the Germans did last year, so did our DT&V. We are working on this step-by-step, but the fact remains that these countries have a different view of the balance between their duty towards other countries and their short-term self-interest. As a result, this has not yet resulted in a huge leap forward in the number of forced return cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u122	Should we then note that, since we discussed this earlier this year, and certainly many times before, no progress has actually been made, that Morocco does not want to change a step in this respect and that there may be all kinds of dubious deals between Spain and Morocco? That might be possible, but if we don't get along with this, it's a nice thing to say that honestly. Then, as a Chamber, we should also look at what other means we could use and what other means of printing might be available. Is it true it doesn't work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u123	Well, "nothing" is so little, but it's not much. To be honest, this is not new either. I have been doing this for two and a half years now, and I think I have been flapping myself openly for two years by recognizing that progress is not as I want it to be and as it is important to us. I also believe that the European Commission, where the mandate is to negotiate on this because the position is potentially stronger than per Member State, did not do enough about this. Now that's better. I do not think the result has yet been achieved, but in the run-up to our Presidency, we have made it a difficult point to highlight the return. It was not such a point of attention at first on the JHA Raden. It is now politically important in the European circuit, but it is still a matter of implementation and willingness to put real pressure, both through the EU and through the Commission, together as European Member States, and to link things with one another towards such a country. That is first of all an EU internal push. I see progress in this respect, but that does not yet lead to the desired effects on a country such as Morocco. So far, Spain has not felt as a problem owner as other Member States, because it had its own arrangements. That didn't help either. But, of course, in return, they gave a lot of access to their own labour markets, through temporary work permits. And I do not taste much willingness to go that way when we talk about motions from your side. It is a way in which Morocco did return until recently. In this way, the number of people who switched to Spain was also quite small. We now see other movements in that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u124	It would indeed be the strongest if this could be done by the European way. I think we have a debate on this tomorrow. Perhaps the Secretary of State can now indicate whether there are countries that are obstructing this point and therefore, in his view, do not run fast enough. Because I cannot imagine that if it is so obvious that rejected asylum seekers, regardless of the Member State in which they are located, should simply return to Morocco in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u125	I assume that Mr Van Dijk means EU Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u126	Yes. Are there any Member States that do not want to rush to improve this policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u127	Well, there are those who simply don't have such an interest in it or who so categorically try to keep every potential refugee out of the country that they say: it's not our problem. Those are countries that call out on everything you propose: build a fence. It's kind of in that corner. But those countries won't stop it either. Spain always mixes it, with a slanted eye on: isn't our own date in danger? But there's a little bit of trouble in that now. This may also make them more co-problem-owner with countries like the Netherlands on this file. But it is not the case that a European Member State blocks it. It is more in the habit that it is still necessary at Commission level to take a firm stand on this issue. Afghanistan is the first country that has managed to reschedule. In a number of other African countries, Minister Koenders has done a great deal about this during the Presidency. So it works, but the top prize in numbers is the North African countries. They also seem to be the hardest to move. I do not really feel unwillingness in other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u129	Mr Bishop asked how often criminal behavior has had consequences for lawful residence. In 2016, 44 authorisations were refused or withdrawn for this reason. I've been talking about the VRIS protocol. That is what the cooperation between the criminal justice chain and the foreign chain is about. You can see at any given time what the residence status of someone is. That's a real-time check. But that's something other than being able to get aggregated from a system afterwards how many query x, y and z are, and then put together. That's not gonna happen now. Mr President, I think I have... I do not know if I have answered all the questions, but I have given all the answers I had.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u130	That's how you can see it. Mr Voordewind has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u131	Apart from the sepots, because we receive a letter from the Minister, I asked a question in the first term about the 480 condemned foreigners who have left. Apparently, that's a hard number, but how many people have ended up staying here who have been convicted? Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u132	No, I don't have that grade on a beer skin. Look, if you turn someone off, you can see if he had a criminal history. Then you're gonna grab the stack of evicted people, and in it, you're gonna see who had backgrounds. I don't have a stack of unexecuted people, either. Some are no longer in your country. You can't draw the conclusion that anyone with a criminal record that hasn't been deported is still here. But that is what Mr Voordewind wants to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u133	On the one hand, we have the people who left, but on the other hand, we do not know how many convicted criminal asylum seekers eventually stayed. That has to do with the six months, I suppose. Anything that's under there can stay here and stay in procedure. In any case, their licence shall not be revoked. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many of them ended up staying here while they had a six-month sentence after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u134	That's another question. We have strengthened that policy recently. It cannot, by definition, be very many, because we have implemented this stringing to six months relatively recently. I need to think if you can get that out of the systems. It is therefore a question of foreigners with six months with whom it has been withdrawn, but who have not yet been deported. Then you should start looking manually. There have been 44 withdrawals and it's within that category. I get that it's tempting to say you don't know if you can't pick up the number from the system. Let me put myself in the position of a Member of Parliament for a moment. At the time I voted in favour of Mr Voordewind's motion as a Member of Parliament, I know that. But if I am asked how many times I voted in the Chamber for a motion by Mr Voordewind, I do not know the number. So you know it in the file, but that's different from asking a big-data question and getting an answer to it all at once. For those 44 we could manually assess to what extent people have already been deported, whether they may still be present and whether the return process has entered into force or not. This is a bit like the 1F problem. Although we know that we cannot send some back because they are not safe in the country of origin, we do not want to reward them with a right of residence, and we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u135	That was actually my underlying question: why weren't these people deported? Does that have to do with the fact that they come from an unsafe country? Does that have to do with the fact that they come from countries that don't take people back? Where's the bottleneck? That was actually my underlying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u136	This is also different from one individual to another. Again, there are also people who are not forced to return or who cannot be expelled to the country of origin for security reasons and who do leave our country. An open border works both ways. You cannot conclude that someone is still in the Netherlands because he has not been expelled with our supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u137	Thank you. Then we'll move on to the second term. Speaking time is one minute including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u138	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll start filing the motions quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to keep track of the residence status of all persons detained and convicted of committing a crime, specifying in any case the categories of status holders, asylum seekers and illegal persons, as well as to keep track of the part of it which has been shown to have left the Netherlands, and to inform the Chamber twice a year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government never to grant residence permits to asylum seekers convicted of committing a crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2345]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2346]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u139	The President indeed noted that the motion was sufficiently supported, but I thought about it for a moment. Can you even propose a motion that runs counter to treaties, as the Secretary of State indicated? In the debate I had with Mr Fritsma, he also asked me this question. I indicated at that time, and this is also apparent from the letter of May 2016 and from what the Secretary of State has just said, that within the limits of the law, to which we are still bound, he has sought the maximum. This motion actually says that this is all bullshit and that people who get two months have to be deported. You may want to do this, but if you withdraw a permit like that, that withdrawal will immediately be sabotaged by a judge. I told Mr Fritsma that I think that people who come here, who flee war and violence, and then commit these crimes, should be ashamed of themselves. But we all have to stick to the law here. I think Mr Fritsma should do the same. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u140	This really is a bizarre interruption of the CDA Group. Why? The Secretary of State says that I cannot refuse asylum seekers who have been in prison for less than six months in connection with the Refugee Convention. Mrs Keijzer, that refugee treaty can unilaterally denounce the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u142	The Netherlands has the right to unilaterally terminate the Refugee Convention. Treaties can be denounced. Treaties can be changed. The fact that you do not want to do so indicates that you are part of the problem. But it's possible. And, Mr President, there is nothing too much to ask to keep criminal asylum seekers outside the Netherlands and not to give them a residence permit. If the CDA wants to, I can't do that with the hat. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u143	Mrs. Keijzer, short response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u144	Mr President, you know, what I would love to do is if the PVV Group were to make a good legal analysis here, with, for example, an initiative legislative proposal, in which the PVV explains to the Chamber exactly why our, my analysis of law, that of the State Secretary and that of judges applying it, is not correct. What then needs to be changed into legislation in order to achieve this? But every time here with the greatest ease in the world, we have said to each other, when we were sworn in, that we would abide by laws and regulations, and at some point it is no longer possible to take them seriously. I wanted that point marked here anyway. For the rest, it's up to Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u145	Proceed, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u146	As far as the analysis is concerned. The analysis is: in connection with the Refugee Convention, you must admit criminal asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u147	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u148	So you have to cancel or change the Refugee Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u149	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u150	It is a very simple analysis, but you obviously do not want to cancel or change the Refugee Convention in order to keep criminal asylum seekers out of the door. I can't reach it with the hat. The Netherlands can unilaterally cancel the Refugee Convention and then you will be rid of the whole problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u151	Do you have another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u152	That's the way it is, and that's the way it is. Mr President, my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that criminal asylum seekers are expelled after serving their sentence and detained pending expulsion, so that they no longer have any freedom in Dutch society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2347]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u153	Yeah, but here's the same thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u154	Then it's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u155	... in the sense that this is not about the Refugee Convention, but simply about laws and regulations laid down in this Chamber. And the same goes for this. Come up with an analysis, with an own-initiative proposal that states what needs to be changed here in order to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u156	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u157	And the previous debate, Mr President, was not just about the Refugee Convention, but also about European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u158	Mr. Fritsma, thank you very much. Or did you have another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u159	No, but do I have to respond to Mrs Keijzer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u160	Well, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u161	I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u162	It's okay. I believe that there has been a sufficient exchange of views on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u163	It's okay, yeah. But here too, Mr President, rules can be changed, even European rules. But then the CDA in Brussels must have the right voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u164	Mrs. Keijzer, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u165	Yeah, then come up with an initiative bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u166	That's what you said. Thank you, Mr. Fritsma. We shall now proceed to Mr Grothuizen. No. To Mr. Bishop? No. I'll take a look around. Who needs a second term? No one? Oh, well, Mr. Hiddema. How could I forget you? I'm glad you're standing up for yourself. How many motions do you have, Mr. Hiddema? One? Okay. You have one minute's speaking time. You must read the motion first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u167	Do you want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u168	No, you have to read it to me first. Then you can hand him out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u169	It's going in the right direction; everyone wants it! But I have to read it to you first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u170	Yes, and then you'll have to file it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u171	Yeah, that's right. Mr. Chairman. I am not entirely satisfied when it comes to the debate on the issue of the European Union, and that is all I am talking about, for me, is the hopping suspects from safe countries. I shall put forward a motion to encourage misguided policemen, who are still in full attendance, and to prevent dubious dismissals and endless recidivism. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some of the suspected asylum seekers from safe countries are not being prosecuted;]] [[noting that, in such cases, the decision to dismiss is taken in order to avoid the likely delay in the execution of criminal proceedings;]] [[noting that the foreign police also considers that these detentions send out an undesirable signal, namely "that crime is not punishable until someone is expelled";]] [[Calls on the Minister to ensure that, in the event of a decision to be taken on containment and, consequently, on an action for indemnification or pre-trial detention against an asylum seeker suspected of a crime, the security of the citizen will be central and the conduct of the expulsion procedure will not be taken into account;]] [[Invites the Minister to point out that if it wishes to refrain from further prosecution in the interest of rapid expulsion, the detained asylum seeker in question may be expelled without delay once he has received a notification of no further prosecution by the Prosecutor and/or a summons against him has been withdrawn and that the criminal proceedings thus terminated cannot prevent a rapid exit from the former suspect asylum seeker,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2348]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u172	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u173	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State will deal with Mr Fritsma's second and third motions. I will deal with the other motions. In the first motion by Mr Fritsma, on item No. 2345, the Government is invited to maintain the residence status of all persons arrested and convicted of committing a crime, specifying at least the categories of status holders, asylum seekers and illegal persons. I have already indicated that this is extremely complicated in practice. In the debate it was mainly about the Public Prosecutor's Office, that agents should also keep track of all arrests. That will make it even more complex and also increase the workload for agents. That's why I advise against this motion. Mr Fritsma's motion for a resolution 2348 contains some of the longest sentences I have encountered in my life, but since they contain the motion's request, I shall read them out. The motion calls on the Minister to ensure that, in the event of a decision to be taken on containment and thus on a claim for insurance or pre-trial detention against an asylum seeker suspected of a crime, the security of the citizen will be central and the conduct of the expulsion procedure will not be taken into account. This is the first request. This contains an incorrect contradiction. It gives the impression that the Public Prosecutor's Office subordinates the security of the citizen to other interests. I think that's a really wrong picture. That's not how the D.A. works. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall, in a professional manner and on the basis of agreed procedures, make a trade-off on the matter. I therefore advise against the first request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u174	You mean the motion in part No. 2348 by Mr Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u175	Yes, but I agree with both requests, because the motion contains two requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u176	You said "Fritsma."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u177	Sorry. In his second request, Mr Hiddema also asked the Minister to point out to the Public Prosecutor that if he wished to refrain from further prosecution in the interests of rapid expulsion, the detained asylum seeker in question could be expelled without delay once he was given a notification of no further prosecution by the Public Prosecutor and/or a summons against him has been withdrawn. This request contains a serious simplification of reality. We have had a wide-ranging debate on the major problems that unfortunately exist with the expulsion. There are important countries of origin of asylum seekers who do not cooperate at all in expulsion. A motion suggesting that a quick eviction can be arranged simply by adjusting the procedure in the Netherlands is really a serious distortion of the world in which we unfortunately live. So I must also advise against the second request in the motion. So, on balance, I'm gonna dissuade the whole motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u178	I can reassure the Minister: I am not distorting reality. The asylum seeker in question, who, thanks to my aircraft method, comes out of pre-trial detention on the plane, will perhaps choose to cooperate in his expulsion during the period of time he is being held in pre-trial detention. It's a different story when he's out there. And that's your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u179	Mr Hiddema completely ignores the fact that we are dealing with large numbers of asylum seekers, or at least people pretending to be asylum seekers, from countries such as Morocco and Algeria. We can't shut down there at all. In addition, there are no aircraft stairs at all. It would be impossible for me to accept a motion as proposed here or to give a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u180	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u181	Anything helps, I'd think. I just heard you say that you are dealing with asylum seekers who do not want to leave and a government that does not want them. Imagine the situation that an asylum seeker in a home of detention is doing his utmost through relations in Morocco to have him received. Look what's happening. Try it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u182	I have just spoken of a serious simplification of reality by Mr Hiddema. I'm noticing that now. Mr Hiddema suggests that we are dealing with asylum seekers or people pretending to be asylum seekers, from Morocco, for example, who have also committed a crime and who really want to go back to Morocco. If it's that simple, we wouldn't be here right now. We're dealing with serious problems. Then it is important that we take both sides seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u183	I take you very seriously, but I refuse to take myself less seriously in this debate. I always assume a willing asylum seeker who wants to go to Morocco, because he is stuck in the Netherlands. Then he chooses freedom in Morocco. Then you will be rid of the problem that he doesn't want to go to Morocco and Morocco doesn't want to go to Morocco. I'll keep it simple as soon as I can. Now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u184	I'm really listening to Mr. Hiddema with stupid surprise. If we were dealing with fake asylum seekers from Morocco who were so eager to return, we would not have this problem here at all. Then we would not have to have this debate here at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u185	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u186	Mr. Chairman. I come to the dissuading judgments on the motions on the items Nos. 2346 and 2347. Mr Fritsma's motion for a resolution 2346 on further lowering the border in order to challenge the fact that people have committed a crime, I recognize from previous cases. I would advise against this for the same reasons I gave at the time and explained earlier in the debate. We've searched the border. If you want to carry out this motion, you will have to cancel the Refugee Convention, as Mr Fritsma wants, just like the ECHR. Perhaps Mr Fritsma doesn't think that's such a disaster either. Leaving the EU is a standing practice for him. In the logic of his program, therefore, the motion fits, but the negative consequences seem to me to be greater than the benefit of implementing it. What Mr Fritsma is asking for in the motion on item No. 2347 we do as much as possible, but knowing him he means his motions in absolute terms, always. But it is not always possible and legally sustainable. I don't think I'm supposed to put people in jail first and then hear from the judge by turning post that they have to go free and take a walk with our rule of law. Detention under criminal law has taken place in the event that Mr Fritsma describes, so we have already done so. I can't allow alien detention indefinitely. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-27.u187	Thank you. That concludes this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the MPs, the Minister, the Secretary of State, the messengers, the officials and the Stenographic Service.
