ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-eerstekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Prime Minister and the former Presidents of the First Chamber to the Chamber. I ask you all to stand up. On 12 July last, Gerrit Braks, Senator for the Christian Democratic Appèl, died from 11 June 1991 to 10 June 2003. Mr Braks was a member of national politics for almost four decades. For ten years he was Minister of Agriculture: a sector he was familiar with since childhood and on which he would have a decisive influence. Gerardus Johannes Maria Braks was born on 23 May 1933 in Odiliapeel, North Brabant. His parents, who had a total of eleven children, had an mining company. This is where Mr Braks worked until his 23rd year of life. In the evenings and weekends he took courses at the primary agricultural and horticultural school, the Landbouwwinterschool, the mulo and the hbs. After a temporary job at the Agricultural Information Service in Eindhoven, Mr Braks completed his training in arable and pasture farming at the Agricultural High School in Wageningen at the end of 1964. Soon afterwards, Mr Braks became a diplomat in Brussels: initially as a deputy agricultural attaché and later as an agricultural council. He considered the period in Brussels to be the happiest time in his life. The construction of the common agricultural policy was a challenge to him and also strengthens his faith in European cooperation. Later in his life he would be distinguished by the French government as Commander de l'Ordre du Mérite agricole for his efforts in this area. In 1977 Mr Braks made the switch to The Hague. "Don't be lax, voice Braks" was on the election boards in Brabant. In the Lower House he was soon elected Chairman of the Permanent Committee for Agriculture and Fisheries. It was therefore not illogical that three years later, when the first Van Agt cabinet was appointed, the choice for Minister of Agriculture fell upon him. When Mr Braks took office as Minister, he was confronted with an agricultural sector which had burst out of his joints. His measures against over-production and to promote sustainability often met with considerable resistance. Still, he went through with it. If his policy was criticised within the agricultural sector, it was independent of his person's appreciation. One of the reasons for this was that Mr Braks always clearly explained what he stood for. He called a shovel a shovel and a spade a spade. He himself later said that the art of politics is to bring everything back to the human dimension. He also had the great advantage of being able to move well into the position of the farmers. After his ministry, Mr Braks continued his career as president of the KRO. And soon he returned to national politics. On 11 June 1991, Mr Braks was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber of the States-General, a house where he also liked to come as a minister. Not only because there was more scope for substantive discussion, but also because it allowed him to remain involved in agriculture and to be a representative of the region. In his maiden speech he spoke out for the importance of good vocational education. He had himself worked hard to get this and wanted to make sure others got the same chance. During the General Political Reviews in November 2000, as group chairman, he denounced the policy of the purple Cabinets. These would be too wait-and-see in addressing major problems. "Success can easily make business blind," he said. With pain in the heart, Mr Braks treated the Pigs Act as a Member of Parliament in 1998. He stood up for the pig farmers, who had to deal with a 25% restructuring of the pig population. In the First Chamber, Mr Braks was known as an ambitel, open and optimistic person. He was a proud representative of the people, who was loyal to his party and homeland. On 2 October 2001, Mr Braks was appointed President of the First Chamber. I can say that as the only Member of Parliament in this Chamber today, I have experienced the entire term of office of Gerrit Braks as President. That means I'm very old. As chairman, he was committed to keeping MPs informed of technological developments. Otherwise they would not be able to carry out their work as co-legislator properly. In the First Chamber, Mr Braks encouraged the three core values he had received from agriculture: dedication, knowledge and solidarity. Mr Braks was strongly convinced of the added value of the Upper Chamber. In interviews and speeches he always underlined that First Chamber members are strongly rooted in society and that there is an important preventive effect of a political body that assesses the bill as a final product. "Braks swings with melancholy" was written in the newspaper at his farewell to the First Chamber. The hard work had put him in the blood after all these years. He himself said about this in an interview: "I don't work, I function." For a long time Mr Braks did not have to sit still, because soon he was appointed acting mayor in Eindhoven. Here he grew into a valued citizen father in a short time. In Brabant, but certainly beyond, Mr Braks held a large number of social positions. For example, he was chairman of the Catholic Noden Foundation, head of the Rabobank Executive Board, chairman of the Radboud Foundation and chairman of the Supervisory Board at Fontys Hogeschoolen. Mr Braks received several knighthoods and distinctions at home and abroad. In the Netherlands he was Commander in the Order of the Dutch Lion and Knight in the Order of Orange-Nassau. May our respect for his person and his great merits for parliamentary democracy be to support his wife, his children and other family and friends. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Gerrit Braks once said, "I'm Braks and that's agriculture." Agriculture was the common thread in his life. He came to say "from a farm of eleven children, ten sows and eight cows." Born in Odiliapeel, his life story is the story of the emancipation of the Brabant Catholic countryside, the story of how a peasant's son became minister. It took courage, diligence and ambition. Gerrit Braks worked for many years in his father's family business when he decided to go to the mulo and then follow the hbs. Afterwards he went to study at the Agricultural College in Wageningen. "That was something, in such a village," he said himself. "The pastor, the teacher and the neighborhood soon reasoned: what does Gerrit Braks imagine? That's how you had to. Failure would be a failure." Braks became an official at the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and indeed a top negotiator in Brussels. He became a member of the House of Representatives. On behalf of the KVP in the Lower House, he also became a minister. He said, "The world has opened to me." Gerrit Braks would remain Minister of Agriculture for almost ten years, at a time when the sector was undergoing radical change. But Braks was farming. That's how it was felt by his agricultural supporters. A ruler who without any difficulty managed to milk a cow with one hand in a short time, who had the right to speak. At the same time, Braks did not make it easy for the grassroots and his farmers. There was no other way. "Agriculture has reached its limits," he said. It was the years of the milk lakes and butter mountains. At that time more attention was paid to nature and the environment. The policy had to be on the move. Braks made difficult and painful measures acceptable. He always managed to strike a balance between the interests of his constituents, with which he tried to identify himself, and the importance of society as a whole. He stood for his choices and he sought the confrontation. He didn't hesitate to stand in front of a room full of angry farmers. I quote: 'If active farmers or angry fishermen scolded me, then I just moaned back'. He then also attached himself to shake his opponent's hand afterwards and to break up in a good atmosphere. This combination of courage, accessibility and friendship means that to this day he has the enormous respect of the entire agricultural sector. After his ministry he remained socially involved: indeed as a member and President of the Senate, but also as chairman of the CRO. Even after his retirement he remained a loyal visitor to the meetings of his party, the CDA. The home front was important to him. They always stood like a wall around him, as he himself put it. When asked how he wanted to be remembered, he said around his 80th birthday: "I've always lived a little bit like how I want to be seen later: as a human being, who attaches to reliability and integrity. I'd like to be respected by other people. And there's appreciation. That's why it's good." His social commitment and the appreciation he received for this were also evident at his funeral in the St.Jans' Cathedral in Den Bosch. The church was filled to the ridge. Many from the present and the past came to pay his last respects. Gerrit Braks remains in memory as a charming and warm man, accessible and with listening ear, but also brave and perceptive. We remember him with the deepest respect. On behalf of the cabinet, I wish his wife, his children, his family and his friends all the strength. Thank you.
