ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u1	In our midst is still the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. On the part of the Chamber, eight members have registered to deal with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u2	As the first speaker, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Kent of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When people only work for a short period of time, they also build up a small pension. It is certainly important for employees, but also for pension funds, that such a pension should not remain fragmented everywhere, but that it should be combined into one good pension. In order to reduce the amount of small pensions, there are three possibilities for us. The first way is, of course, to limit the number of temporary contracts. People with uncertain temporary contracts and temporary workers often build up pensions in many different places. In the case of temporary workers, this happens even after six months, and it is also a pension that cannot be written home. In order to limit the amount of temporary contracts, the Minister knows, I assume, what the SP has in mind at that point is that this government is taking exactly the wrong measures in our view, namely relaxing the right of dismissal plus waiting a year for a fixed contract. When it comes to reducing the number of small pensions, the government is counterproductive in this regard. I am also concerned about how that will be in the years to come. I'll ask the Minister how he looks at that. The second way is to reduce the number of pension funds. This can be done, for example, by making mergers easier. Can the Minister indicate how many pension funds would exist in his ideal world? And does the Minister consider it his mission to reduce the number of pension funds over the coming period? The third way is to make it easier to combine small pensions with the large pension. The bill we're talking about tonight will settle that. Of course, this can count on the support of the SP, because the large amount of small pensions is a problem. In September, for example, it became clear that more than 350 million of forgotten pensions were still on the table. These are pensions which have been built up by employees but have not yet been applied for or have not yet been granted. The Minister states that pension practitioners are doing their best to solve all of this and to find the right holders. But what does the Minister think about the existence of these forgotten pensions, and what will the Minister himself do about this? This legislative proposal does not provide for the possibility of buying off intermediate small pensions if value transfers fail. However, it is indicated that redemption is desirable when, for example, you become unemployed or choose to become self-employed. The Minister chooses to consider this provision only when assessing the law. As far as we are concerned, we need to introduce this now and we can look at the evaluation to see whether this is indeed unnecessary. Then we can still delete it. I also saw a number of interesting amendments on this subject. We will study them even better, but we will probably support them in order to make this possible. Mr. Chairman. The AOW age has risen rapidly in recent years. As a result, large groups of people have been in difficulty, because they simply cannot make it physically or financially. Needs are high. That is why we will also seize this opportunity to propose a solution to allow early cessation of work. We asked the Minister when preparing this law in writing whether the value of such a small pension that has been built up somewhere could be used to enable early retirement. According to the Minister, this is not possible, but he indicated that the distinction between such a small pension and the larger pension was made very clear. Because that distinction is so clear, my group believes that it is possible to allow such a small pension to be used to stop working earlier. We believe that this is a logical question, also given the importance that many people have because they simply cannot continue to work. That is why I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to take this step, because any possibility of early retirement has unfortunately become a bitter necessity for many workers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you for your contribution. As a second speaker from the Chamber, I shall give the floor to Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. May I begin by addressing the Minister? I would, of course, like to congratulate the Minister on his ministry. I wish him every success. The Minister will deal with pensions. That is a good subject, because pensions affect all of us. We almost all pay pension contributions as workers, and when we retire, we also count on an adequate pension. With this portfolio, the Minister faces a number of important challenges. Because the Dutch pension system may be among the best systems, we all know that there are also a number of concerns. For example, the system does not fit in with the current labour market, it gives participants little insight into how much pension has been built up and the size of the pension is often disappointing compared to expectations. The adjustment of our pension system is one of the bigger challenges for this minister. I have every confidence that he will work on this with his energy. Which brings me to the legislative proposal before us, the draft law on the transfer of value for small pensions. Some people hop consciously or forced from job to job by circumstances. They build up a small pension with different employers. For the people involved, this is unclear. They have to deal with different pension administrators, receive different pension statements at the end of the year, and the costs of managing these small pensions are relatively high. When we talk about a small pension, I say especially for the people at home, it is good to say that it is less than €467.89 a year. Pensioners can buy these small pensions unilaterally at this time. This bill regulates that small pensions are not paid off but are transferred to the pension executive of the next employer. The legislative proposal reduces the fragmentation of these small pensions and will lead to less administrative costs. Mr. Chairman. The VVD believes it is important for everyone to be able to build up a pension, so that they can earn their own living when they retire. This legislative proposal is therefore a good step to maintain the contributions actually paid for the pension and to avoid fragmentation. The bill reduces implementation costs, which benefits the pension of all participants. Moreover, this legislative proposal contributes to simplifying the transfer of value to small pensions. Mr. Chairman. My group still has a number of questions and amendments to this bill. The automatic transfer of value takes place to the pension provider of the next employer. Can the Minister explain why this was chosen? My group believes that a participant should also have the opportunity to transfer the value to a pension administrator where a pension has been built up in the past. Suppose you worked in health care for 15 years and have built up a pension there, then you have built up a small pension in another sector, that that happens again and that you then become a self-employed person. In this case, the participant should also be able to choose to transfer the small pension to the pension fund where he or she has already built up a pension for 15 years. I am considering tabling a motion in the second term to ask the Minister to shape this for small pensions, but it also applies to the voluntary transfer of value. The VVD believes that greater flexibility is needed, including in the case of voluntary value transfer. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. The pension administrator must arrange the automatic transfer of value. He must contact the participant for this. In many cases this will hopefully not be a problem, but we know that in some cases it is difficult to make contact with a participant. In the present proposal, the pension administrator should actually continue to approach the participant infinitely. That is not in the interests of the other participants. Supervisors, the Council of State, but also the pension field, are critical on this point. Can the Minister explain why this point has been maintained? Mr. Chairman. I have tabled an amendment to introduce the buying-in power if the transfer of value fails after five times. I added: a period of five years. The pension administrator really has to do his best to approach the participant, but if he doesn't, I think it's important to introduce the redemption option. This is also in the interest of the other participants. Mr. Chairman. The bill requires a new system of transfer of value to work from 1 January 2017. Is it true that in practice this means that pension practitioners have communicated towards participants about the buy-back of a small pension? If so, should this letter be revoked if this bill is passed? Is there going to be an automatic transfer of value? Can the Minister explain why the date of 1 January 2017 was chosen? Has it been investigated what it means to the participants if they first get a letter about the buy-back and then about the transfer of value? This will not increase clarity for participants. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The bill provides for very small pensions to lapse. We are talking about pensions of less than €2 per year or less than €0.17 per month. It is basically a point of principle: however small the amount is, it has been raised by the employee or in this case the participant. The amount therefore belongs to the participant. At the same time, I understand that the cost of a very small pension is such that it is disproportionate to the value of the pension. A colleague of mine indicated this morning that he built a very small pension in his student days. His UPO, his pension statement, shows that this amounts to a pension of €0.84 per year. €0.84 per year! That, of course, is not in proportion to the cost. Can the Minister indicate how the border amount was established? What is about the accumulated value of that very small pension, if you come to this kind of benefits? The Tax Administration applies an amount of €15 for tax refund. Does this correspond to the accumulated value of this very small pension? If not, what is the distinction based on? If so, that's a confirmation. I can see the Minister's nodding. Mr. Chairman. What does this bill mean for all those very small pensions, such as those of my colleague, who have really been built up a long time ago? If I am right, there is a provision in the law to allow these very small pensions to lapse, but this right lies with the pension administrator. This means, in practice, that these very small pensions can continue to exist. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that a one-off clean-up action is desirable? This would, of course, be in the interest of the participants, but certainly also in the interest of the permanent participants of the fund. I would also like a reflection from the Minister on the ownership of this very small pension. An additional question I would like to ask is whether there is any need to amend the tax legislation in order to allow small pensions to lapse. Mr. Chairman. The pension register has an important role to play in the overview of the saved pension. In recent years, cautious steps have been taken to broaden the information. How does the Minister view the next step that the pension register should take in order to share this information? Is it prepared for this task? I shall leave my contribution to first term, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I wish the Minister happiness and pleasure in his duties. The Minister deals with pensions and AOW, so we will often have a debate with each other. I look forward to that. Mr. Chairman. We will support good proposals. We share the view that it is important that workers with small pensions should also be able to retain their right to a good retirement provision. Now that the changing labour market is creating more and more small pensions, we regard automatic transfer of value as a natural improvement in the system as a whole. Because that little improvement is now coming, as we could stare into the eyes of the broad breakdown of our precious system, with the AOW age that is set to reach 66 years in 2018, reaching 67 years in 2021 and going up to 70-plus on the basis of life expectancy. What are the consequences of these sentences in the government agreement on supplementary pensions, of course, we are waiting for each other. We don't know yet. The uncertainty continues. We support the law subject to an amendment which, in our opinion, makes the operation of this law even better, namely by maintaining the possibility of interim buy-back if value transfers fail. We have therefore tabled an amendment in the context of the treatment of the Value Transfer Act on the basis of the current wordings. The line to maintain the possibility of interim buy-back if value transfer fails is endorsed by supervisors, Council of State, Association of Insurance Companies and the Pension Federation. That is a large and wide supporting field. Former Secretary of State Klijnsma has chosen to make the interim buy-back option depend on an evaluation of the law. We believe that it is already possible to clarify this point. Mr. Chairman. If this law comes into force, it may be important, looking at citizens and stakeholders, that this law should enter into force. For us this is, of course, known. We must be able to learn about this in good time by means of good communication. I wonder what the Secretary of State thinks about that. I would ask the Minister to speak seriously with the field about this. Finally, in a general sense, I would like to say something about the pension. Mrs Lodders did that at the beginning; I do that at the end. We understand that countries with pay-as-you-go systems cannot meet their commitments in times of ageing and have to make tough choices. This may sometimes be inevitable, but the unique thing about our pension system was and is precisely that we are not dependent on change. We have been spared for our pensions and not just about. Those savings are subject to huge amounts of tax. The total tax claim on our pension system runs in the many hundreds of billions, and that goes on. Some compare our pension fund with Norway's oil fund. We see that differently, but our pension fund undoubtedly represents a huge part of Dutch prosperity. If, according to a number of parties in this house, there is no difference in retirement age between the Netherlands and all those countries which have little capital coverage, but which do have generous cover pensions at least: often generous cover pensions, why have we saved so much? The Dutch own three quarters of all pension savings in Europe. Just when we could have exploited the benefits of our system over other countries, without capital funding, we would have thrown the system overboard. In this respect, we are inconsolable but also combatable. I look forward to the debate on the future of our pension system with the Minister. It is an immense problem with enormous uncertainties and budgetary implications. I would just mention the possible abolition of the average problem, with amounts in the order of 50 billion to 100 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Van Rooijen. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Fightable elderly people of 50PLUS; there are now a lot of combatable young people who are worried about pensions. I think that we should fight this fight together with regard to the future of our pension system. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing pensions with the new Social Affairs Minister. A warm welcome to the new minister. I have been facing him for a while at Question Time, but I wish the Minister every success. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about retirement, we are talking directly about work and the labour market. There is a great challenge to keep and ensure the work, pension and social security of people in times of digitization and robotisation: land under the feet of people, so that we can face the future optimistically with each other. To be sure of an income, to be sure of a contract, so that you can build a life, and to be sure of a good pension are incredibly important anchor points. With these anchor points, we will also test the proposals of this new minister in the near future. Mr. Chairman. You should only work with a flexible contract for years and have built up a lot of small pension claims. This is not a hypothetical situation: this applies not only to pupils and students with side jobs, but is a reality for many people. This is due to a very flexible, far too flexible labour market. In recent years, we have already taken the necessary steps to reverse the tide, but we are not there yet. So that is something we need to address, here in this Chamber and with this minister. This minister simply starts with a good bill, because building a full pension is important for every worker. Buying off small pensions often leads quickly to a small amount and a lot of administration, but ultimately it does not lead to a good pension. That is why we support this bill, which allows for the automatic inclusion of small pensions, so that, despite a lifetime of flex contracts, you still have the opportunity to build up a full pension. Again, this is not an abstract situation. This is about a lot of people: in the hospitality, cleaning, in the broadcasting sector and many other sectors. I have three questions for the Minister. The first concerns the entry into force of this law: when can this law enter into force? As far as I and our group are concerned as quickly as possible, because it is precisely for all these people that the automatic transfer of all these small pension claims must become a reality as soon as possible. Can the Minister clarify this and make a commitment to it? The second question is as follows. Once the law has entered into force, it is nice that you can also add the claims you have accumulated in the past to your pension fund and that you can have it automatically overwritten. In several letters from the sector on the implementation problems in particular, I have seen a lot of objections. Is it not possible to look gradually and with a view to the implementation of pension funds, not only after the review of the law in three years, but perhaps earlier, how can we add that claim to the participant's pension fund as soon as possible? Finally, Mr President, I would like to make one more point about those very, very small pensions, from around €2, which lapses with the argument 'it makes no sense to add them to the participant's pension because of all the administrative costs'. What about the responsibility, exactly? What should a pension administrator, an insurer, account for in the annual report? Where does this amount go? If you have a lot of very small pensions in that fund, it can still be a whole amount. What's gonna happen to that money? And how is that justified? I'd like an answer from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u10	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u11	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, a word of welcome to the new minister. I wish him every success. I hope that we can have a good and constructive debate here. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is positive about the legislative proposal before us on the transfer of value for small pensions. Transfer of value is a better way of dealing with small pensions than redemption, because in the end the money also achieves the pension goal, and that is what it was all about. If you look from that perspective at whether this law regulates that optimally, at least I have a number of questions and comments. The first, and perhaps most important, is the justification given for the expiry of the redemption right and the way in which the transfer of value is now being reviewed. Here's how it's gonna be. You have a small pension. It shall be reviewed annually whether this can be transferred to a new pension administrator. This means that it is theoretically possible that, say, 20 years in a row a test takes place and each time it is found that there is no new pension administrator. Then the cost of implementation, the administrative burden, will increase rather than decrease. That cannot have been the intention of this law. This is not in the interests of the participant nor does it lead to a solution. Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg then tabled an amendment to buy it off after five years. I would like to ask why this bill has not chosen, after a number of years of trying to transfer it to a new pension administrator, to automatically move to a transfer to a previous pension administrator. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. That transfer would be my preference over redemption, still. It could also lead to the end of the clean-up action becoming virtually complete, because there are only two options: either there is another implementing pension, which can combine one small pension or even two small pensions with the pension, or there is no other implementing pension, and then there is apparently one very small pension that has no follow-up and is still logical. Will the Minister reflect on this line of thinking and will he say whether he would feel that way? Mr. Chairman. In any event, comments on retroactive effect have been made by the pension sector. Can the Minister explain how this is going to work? Indeed, if you allow this to happen on 1-1-2017, do decisions have to be reversed? I'd think that's a complicating factor. Or do I misunderstand the law and it's different? It's still unclear to me. I would like an explanation of this. Why has this bill not chosen an obligation to transfer value? In fact, the reasoning in the explanatory memorandum seems to contradict itself. It says that there are funds that do not want to participate. Moreover, I am extremely curious as to which funds that would be. If several large funds are not participating, what are we doing about this whole scheme? That would be very strange. Then there's something crazy going on. Then they obviously have no interest in it either, while the interest of the performers would also be so great. However, the explanatory memorandum also states that there would be unnecessary additional costs to the scheme for some performers if you required it. I do not understand that; that seems to contradict each other. Perhaps the Minister can explain this and perhaps I can be persuaded by it. I have one more point. The scheme shall be implemented without the participation of the participant. In itself, that is of course a form of concern to the participant, and it means that it can be carried out easily, quickly and automatically. But I note that in this whole proposal, and also in the explanatory statement, nothing is said about safeguards for the participant. By this I mean guaranteeing in the sense of: does this transfer take place correctly, or does money disappear? Of course, that should not be the case, but for its testability and guarantees for the participant, the legislator has an additional responsibility in my opinion, since he chooses not to place the participant in the position that he can object to it. That doesn't feel right to me. I would therefore like to know from the Minister whether I am right. Could there be things that are not going well somewhere, but that are no longer impressionable? Or am I looking for nails on low water? Mr President, these were my comments. I repeat that I am in favour of this proposal as a matter of principle. I hope that we can solve the last issues together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Grashoff. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I move on to the bill, I would also like to begin by welcoming the Minister to section K. This is my first debate with him. After spending years in one hallway with him, I think that's kind of special. I'd like to have said that here. I wish him every success not only with the great and ambitious task in the coalition agreement, but also with great pleasure. I'm sure it'll be all right with that pleasure. The labour market and pensions are not only a fantastic subject, but he can also do it in the Ministry of Social Affairs with his fantastic staff. I therefore wish the Minister all the best. As my colleagues know, my group strongly supports the fundamental revision of our pension system. In the coalition agreement, the four parties made an ambitious but realistic move in this direction. I hope that we will now be able to take a major step forward together with the social partners after years of talk. In the meantime, it is of course important to keep looking at what you can improve in the current system. At the moment people lose part of their pension claims due to the automatic buy-back after two years. This means that, although people who often change jobs have more to spend in the short term, they have to pay off, but in the longer term they do not even have to build up a pension. In addition, there are also very high costs associated with often relatively small pension claims, all of which have to be managed neatly by pension funds and insurers. These costs cannot be underestimated. My group is therefore in favour of this proposal. This law provides for lower implementation costs and higher pensions for participants with many small claims. The law actually solves two shortcomings in the pension system. However, my group still has four points of interest and one short question. First of all, there is a broad call from the pension field to maintain the interim buy-back in case after years of searching it is not possible to make a transfer. If pension funds have to try to transfer the pension year after year, at some point that is a cost in itself. It stops somewhere. That is why, together with Mr Lodders, I have tabled an amendment which makes it possible to make a buy-back if it has not been possible to transfer after five annual attempts. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u14	This amendment also leads to a reaction from Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u15	I have just said in my own speech that transfer of value would still be preferable to redemption. I wonder whether Mr Van Weyenberg agrees with me that his amendment could still be slightly modified in the sense that it says: after five years, value transfers can still be made, but then to another former exporter, and if there is no one, then a buy-back can be made. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u16	I understand the search. We have just tried to keep this amendment as simple as possible. All this here is extraordinary in its implementation. That is why we have said: if it really does not succeed after five years, then pay off. But I can tell you that I'm about to say something about being able to choose where you're going at all. I am thinking together with Mrs Lodders of tabling a motion in the second term in order to be able to look at the choice of the fund you are transferring to at all. So I agree with you. I am curious to hear the Minister's response to your suggestion, which is actually a kind of refinement of the amendment. I do not know whether this is possible, for example because the pension register is not yet able to do so in all cases. But I am happy to answer that question, because the main thing is that we have no difference of opinion but agreement: the more pension you can keep within pensions, the better that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u17	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u18	Secondly, I have a question about the determination to which pension fund to transfer that small pension. Mr Grashoff provided a beautiful bridge. Suppose you started your career as a student assistant at an academic hospital. You worked there briefly and built up a small pension at the ABP. After your studies, you worked for 30 years in a hospital where you built up your pension with the Pension Fund for Health and Welfare. The last few years of your career you will start working as a general practitioner and build your pension at the Pension Fund Foundation for Family Doctors. Is it true that under this proposal is the agreement that the ABP will automatically transfer to the Pension Fund for General Physicians? I can imagine you saying: well, I might have preferred to transfer that little pension from the ABP to the Pension Fund for Health and Welfare, because that's where my biggest pension fund is. I think this is very close to Mr Grashoff's question. Is it actually possible to investigate in second term Mrs Lodders and I will return to that that you will have some more say? Yes, I want to have more say in pensions and more choices, but this actually seems to me to be a choice that could really be fit into the current system in the short term. What are the pros and cons here? Would the Secretary of State, if you'll excuse me, take a look at that? I still have to get used to the fact that the pension file has been transferred, I'm just saying. Nothing to the detriment of the Secretary of State, but this certainly deserves a large role from the Minister himself. The third point is the retroactivity that I am taking out of the bill. My colleague from the PVV has previously asked questions about this in the round of questions. Both the Pension Federation and the Association of Insurance Companies are wondering whether this introduction on 1 January 2017 could not create much uncertainty in practice, for example because there has already been communication. I also find "retrospectively" something that you use sparingly. That's what you do when there's really no other way. That's why I'm asking why this has been chosen. Because you want to prevent pension funds that have just communicated from having to correct that again in the sense of: this law is there. I think it confuses a lot of people. I have an amendment ready to put the date of introduction on 1 January 2018, but before I do, of course, I would like to start with the Minister's response. The fourth point I would like to raise is the possibility of redemption. Now the pension is paid off after two years and a participant sometimes gets an amount at once. This bill will amend that so that you'll have more retirement. I think that, once again, is a good development. But in the short term, some participants also have less to spend. I am actually convinced that this is a good idea, but I would like to apologize to the Secretary of State for the Minister, and I am persistently in that misunderstanding, so I would ask the Minister to look explicitly in the evaluation of this law how the participant experiences this event. That is what we are doing to help the participant by guaranteeing his pension. Is this also experienced or are there groups of participants who say: I am more affected by this? I don't expect that, but I think it's a good idea to go into that in the evaluation. I'd like to get a commitment on that. Finally. A number of colleagues have asked questions about the buy-back limit if your pension is less than €2 per year. Those are the real mini-mini-pensions. But de facto you're losing that property now. Even if it is a question of change, that is a question of principle. I understand the balance, because it is precisely those very small pensions that still have to be managed. Then we all have information obligations and that costs a lot of money, often a lot more money than what the pension is worth. But I am curious about the answer to previously asked questions. That is what we must consider as a matter of principle. I started this and I will conclude it briefly. The current pension system runs against borders. The labour market is changing. There are problems with promises that are not being fulfilled. And we've been working on repairs in the last few years. Think of better supervision, strengthening the position of the participant and now of the transfer of value small pensions. These are good repairs, but above all repairs which, as far as I am concerned, also show that it is time for fundamental maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Van Weyenberg. I would like to give the floor to Mr De Jong of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u20	Mr President, thank you very much. The increase in small pensions in the administration of pension administrators leads to high costs. Small pensions are often paid off. According to the cabinet, this happens tens of thousands of times a year, as can be seen. However, it ensures that the participants save less money for their old age. The Party for Freedom therefore supports the pooling of small pensions, as this increases the chances of a better pension for the participants. The legislative proposal will make it easier to transfer small pensions to a new executive, where the participant actively builds up. So far the bill is positive and sympathetic. Nevertheless, the PVV still sees a number of criticisms. Indeed, the possibility of involving the pension participant more directly in the transfer of value is not provided for in this legislative proposal. There are also situations where ex-participants are not affiliated to a new pension fund, for example because they are working as self-employed persons. For that group of people, redemption might be, in consultation, a possibility. That too is not regulated by this bill. Why not? Shouldn't this still happen? The second point which the PVV has difficulty with concerns the very small pensions, which has already been mentioned. Then we are talking about pensions of €2 per year and about €0.17 per month. Of course, that sounds like very little, as very small, but it is someone's money. No matter how small it is, it's someone's money. The right of ownership should therefore remain with that participant, but that is not the case. It's just gonna be expropriated in a minute. I also understand that it costs a lot of money to manage those pensions, but why isn't it possible to get it bought off? Why don't we inform all these people and ask them if they want to buy it off? In any case, we must ensure that it ends up with those who put it in. Why wasn't that chosen? I'd like a response. Furthermore, I am somewhat annoyed that IORP, the European directive, seems to be the basis, is an important part of the way we deal with this whole thing. I'm talking about those very small retirements. What am I talking about? Then it's about informing the participants. First, a pension administrator only had to inform a participant once every five years about very small pensions, so those pensions of about €2 per year. It says in IORP that this now has to happen every year. The European Directive requires funds to send an annual pension statement to all participants, including those who no longer pay pension contributions. Of course, that's going to cost a lot of money. Then I understand that it is said that we should look at the implementation costs, also because IORP is coming. The PVV tried to stop it a while ago. I'm afraid we didn't manage to do that. The CDA, Mr Omtzigt, has also tried. Unfortunately, the last time we tabled a motion on it, it voted against it. The Chamber should now take the opportunity and say that we should not take so much interest in what is indicated in IORP on how to inform the participants. The way in which we deal with our pensions and inform them should lie with the Netherlands itself. I would therefore ask the Minister not to implement the obligations arising from IORP's obligation to provide information to ensure that we do not have to comply with them. So I'm asking him not to take over. Then the last part. Mr Van Weyenberg has just mentioned it. The PVV has asked questions about the entry into force of this bill. It has a retroactive effect. Why did the Minister do this? Why does he not choose to allow the law to enter into force at a later date, for example by January 2018 and to demolish its retroactive force? Mr President, that's it so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u21	Thank you very much, Mr De Jong. As the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u22	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, a warm welcome to the Minister in Box K. He has an incredibly beautiful wallet. Pensions are many times larger in size than the entire government budget of the Minister of Finance. I also know that many people would have liked to have become Minister of Social Affairs, but I think he can do this very well. I wish him every success in this very important ministry for millions of Dutch people. People who are dependent on a pension, people who are involuntaryly unemployed and who like to receive their AOW benefit on time or who, against their will, have become disabled, have an interest in a well-functioning Ministry of Social Affairs which is well-run. Mr. Chairman. Today, Mr Van Rooijen said that a relatively small law is already in place. With all the important issues raised here in the context of the pension system, this is not the absolute main issue, but whoever does not honor the small is not the big one. With pensions, it is true that a large pension can be better than many small pensions. More efficiency, less costs, less administration but above all more clarity for beneficiaries. I will come back to the pensioners in a moment, because the whole bill seems to have been written mainly from the implementation system. The CDA therefore supports the purpose of this law. Pensions are transferred as far as possible and this also solves another problem, because now many small pensions are paid off at or just before the retirement date, often not much left after taxation and after recalculation of supplements. We have had quite a few dramas and Question Times about that. If this bill is passed, at least we will spare it. So it solves problems. The CDA therefore supports the proposal to transfer small pensions by default, but we still have a few questions. Why doesn't the transfer become mandatory? How can this law prevent employers from having to pay for the transfer of pensions of former workers which they thought could not be transferred on a large scale? The secondary payment system can certainly be quite intense for employers. How come they have to pay extra but never get anything back? Why should a small pension not be paid off after five annual attempts? After all, the law says that it is undesirable for the collective to bear the cost of that small pension. The statement and the note refer to the three-year evaluation, but in the view of the CDA Group, evaluations are actually for unforeseen effects. Effects that are already provided by the Council of State and a large part of the Chamber you are actually trying to solve during the legal treatment. You'll see if that solution works in three years. That seems to me to be a more normal design. This while the note following the report seems to imply that this law is good for funds with a high level of coverage and bad for funds with a coverage below 100% Is that correct? In other words, does this law have a de-levelling effect on the coverage levels? As a result, there is a risk that funds with a low level of coverage will not transfer existing small pensions, even if this may be better in the long term, in order to achieve a positive effect on the coverage rate in the short term. In addition to a number of other colleagues, I have a question about retroactivity. Isn't it more logical to set the line between old and new cases on 1 January 2018? I come to the expiry of very small pensions. Anyone who does not honour the small thing is unbearable, and this is particularly true of pensions, because under this bill, pensions of less than €2 per year automatically lapse. These may be claims for which €40 is reserved, because pension benefits often last about twenty years, and the calculation rate of pensions is very close to zero. So a pension fund must have €40 in cash for that. So that's what premium has been paid for, and it disappears into the big pot. Okay, a pension isn't a full right of ownership. I'm sure Mr Van Weyenberg will come back to that one more time, but it's kind of a derived right. It's still your pension. Imagine if we had a bill here that says all bank accounts of less than €40 should be cancelled, because the administration is a little too expensive for the banks. Or imagine a store saying good in return: that dress cost €39.95, which we don't take back. Or imagine that health insurance companies say: a declaration of €36, that's an amount below €40; we're not going to reimburse them. Well, the country would be too small! That is why I ask the Minister whether these very small pensions can be bought off by default, whether or not through the former employer. Another possibility is that the value is now kept separate, and then without the obligation to invest, without the obligation to provide UPOs, because I really understand that for €2 you are not going to send letters annually, not even emails. I get all that. At present, it may be difficult for the pension administrator to find out the participant's account number, but we just think that we are a modern party, chairman of the board that has developed ICT in a few years' time and that there may be a reverse iDEAL transaction, where the participant simply gets it refunded while there are hardly any transaction costs. That also makes more sense to just throw it back at the time. Pension funds may also use bsn numbers. If it's okay, they can get the bank account numbers through the employer. At the same time, arrange with the Secretary of State for Finance that when it is returned, there are not all kinds of tax charges and revision interest rates at issue. But that makes more sense to us. Would the Minister consider doing so? Otherwise, I may have another amendment that I can table. Someone should be given at least a time limit, for example a year, to simply pass on their account number. And if that deal with the Secretary of State for Finance is made, the money can just be deposited on it. There is no need to send ten letters, but one letter would be nice, with the message: you can get €15 if you enter your account number, because it is your money. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of other points. I am sympathetic to the VVD proposal to allow the transfer of value to previous employers. Other colleagues, such as Mr Grashoff, also mentioned this. That makes perfect sense. We've got the paperwork. Then why isn't it standardized that for the second or third time you're going to look, you're not just looking at whether there's a pension fund at the time, but you're also looking at if there's another pension fund where this person has a slightly larger sleeping right? It mustn't be incredibly difficult to arrange that in the database. In addition to what Mr Van Dijk said, I would like to add that it has to do with the flexible labour market. But some of the pension funds we are talking about, Mr Van Dijk, such as StiPP, also have a scheme that holds small pensions, because the scheme does not really end up as a pension scheme, even if you work there for 40 years. So if these pension funds think it's so important, it would also be nice if they could take a look at the scheme together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u23	I think Mr Omtzigt is right. There are a number of regulations that cannot actually pass the test of quality, including StiPP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u24	Then I get to the point where I started: the guarantee for the participants. Let's say that automatic value transfer happens and this happens before you know it. Can I then see somewhere an overview showing how much money my accumulated value transfer was worth and how much money was converted into a new scheme after that transfer of value? Maybe that doesn't have to be automatic, maybe it's just on request, but what right do I have as a participant to see: hey, my claim has moved and in this way that calculation has taken place? Because: €467 per year, again that factor 20, can be a claim worth €9,000. And you know: if you invest even €50, the AFM requires you to make such a thick prospectus somewhere. And if €9,000 is transferred from a to b, it's nice if you can at least check in case of doubt how that happened. Since this calculation is made by pension funds, I would argue that it should also be made available to the people for whom the value has been transferred. I would add that there are all kinds of technical problems involved. One scheme does have a survivor's pension cover and the other does not, but we take that for granted, because at least you will see what happens to that transfer value. You can't transfer the claim one-on-one identical, because arrangements just differ, but it would be nice to see that. The PVV challenged me. Perhaps the Minister could indicate when this eEurope implementation will take place. We have always been told that this is a bit simple, but in our opinion it is a lot of changes, so we will. Then I come to a point that nobody has dealt with and which is included in the legislative proposal, namely the collective recalculation of the retirement age. That could be another problem. The individual right of objection lapses, but different factors are used for the individual advance of the retirement age than for the collective deferment of claims. Can the Minister give a calculation example of the effect of this measure on an employee who, for example, is 64 years old and wants to retire early next year? So he wants to bring forward his pension claims, at a large pension fund, for example, ABP. If the retirement age is first collectively recalculated from 65 to 68, and then the individual says: but I don't want that at all, I want it to go back, how much difference does that claim make? If that is minimal, I understand that we are doing something about it, but I do want to be able to feel that someone will not accidentally lose a percentage of his claim. We have big debates here on indexing. If this happens, the protests will come later, I can assure you. I would like to make a few general comments. I told you, this law is pretty limited. The government agreement contains a very ambitious pension agenda, but this agenda can only be achieved together with the social partners and within the framework of the government agreement. This means that the pension system must remain a Dutch responsibility. That is what has been spared here and that does not need to be shared. The pension system should provide adequate cover for disability pensions and survivors' pensions. The pension system must not become much more volatile once it has been reformed, and it must be European law-abiding. For the people who are looking: this means that compulsory participation in pension funds must be maintained and that a new pension system cannot allow compulsory participation to lapse and therefore we are going to an insured system. And, very importantly, I say, any reform that will take place must also be feasible, and that will be a major challenge. The social partners now seem to have calculations on how the new contract will work. Would the Minister please contact the social partners to ask whether we can see these calculations? After all, they have been going on for a number of years. Would he like to come forward with a stand-of-business letter by mid-December or the end of December on exactly what is going on with these negotiations? Finally, Mr President. The new PEPP does not fit in with the adage that the Dutch system should remain Dutch. There is also a room motion of the VVD not to enter PEPP. How's the Minister going to carry out that motion? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u25	Thank you. I have reason to believe that Mr Van Rooijen would like to make another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u26	More like a question, Mr. Chairman. Now that Mr Omtzigt is looking ahead to ask the Minister for information, I would ask the Minister to also pay attention to another not insignificant aspect. If you want to realize things, you have to recognize the bumps along the way. Will the Minister also address the legal aspect of the famous entry, Article 83 of the Pension Act in conjunction with 20 or 20 in conjunction with 83, which requires the consent of the participant for each transfer of value and for each modification of the pension agreement? We have seen in the real contract that it was precisely that entry that did not succeed, which meant that the new system could not be put in place, whether or not it had subsequently been better or not than what is now in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr. Ommzigt, are you going to pass this question on to the Minister or are you going to answer him yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u28	No, I appreciate that we have this minister, and I think he is very capable of answering this question. By the way, it is a very relevant question, because when it comes to feasibility it is a very important point of attention, even if you do not choose to board. If the payout of pensions would not go, or if it were not properly arranged how your old schemes have been converted to new ones, then here they will not give a note where that is in place. So that just needs to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u29	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that he would like to prepare his term. I'm suspending the debate until 8:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u30	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Value... I mean Employment on the Value Transfer of Small Pension Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Many thanks also to the honourable Members who are here tonight, including the warm words and the success for the coming years. I'm gonna need that. Much needs to be done both in the labour market and in pensions. Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to confine myself tonight to the legislative proposal. I will soon be discussing in detail all plans for the labour market, on fixed versus flex and on the future debate on pensions. Following a question from Mr Asscher during the debate on the declaration of government, I promised that we would come forward with a letter on the strategic agenda for the social partners before the budget debate. I'd like to leave it at that tonight. It is a lot of work to do. There is still a great deal of thought to be given. I really want to talk today about the pension bill that is before us tonight, but with a number of insights into IORP and that sort of thing. I can see Mr Omtzigt getting up. The broader discussion on the pension system is a wide-ranging discussion, which I would like to conduct in its entirety and for which I also take the space. Tonight, I'd like to confine myself to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u32	The Minister is quite right to take the space for that. That is why I asked for some insight into the state of play with the social partners, including the calculations. You can do that with that letter or with another letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u33	I understand this question very well. I also indicated last week that I am now in an introductory round with the social partners. Of course, it talks in a broad sense about both the labour market agenda and the pension agenda. I just need a little time for that, I say in all honesty. I would indeed like to look at the budget, both in terms of its schedule and in terms of its state of play. That's what I'm trying to keep in the letter I've already promised. As this is a complex dossier, which has been going on for a long time and has been the subject of a lot of debates in this Chamber, I am taking a small step forward. I want to do this carefully. It's a complicated discussion. I don't want to mess it up either, to put it this way, by running too fast. But I'll be clear about this process soon. Mr Omtzigt is satisfied, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u34	The commitment's in. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u35	I would also like to thank the Chamber for the speedy handling of this bill. It's an important bill. There's been a lot of communication about it. I would also like to thank Members for their input into the plenary debate today. The bill has three objectives. The first is the automatic transfer of value for small pensions, the pensions with a benefit of up to €467.89 per year. As a result, the current possibility to buy off these small pensions will be lost, leaving the money for the pension. I think it's a widely shared wish in this Chamber that the money remains available for retirement. I have heard a great deal of approval on that point today, and I am pleased about that. It also improves the position of workers with many short-term jobs, precisely because the money remains available for retirement. I think that's a win, too. It also reduces implementation costs for pension administrators. This is in the public interest, because it makes the system cheaper. The second objective is for very small pensions to lapse. Those are indeed the claims on €2 gross per year, i.e. €0.17 per month. This is done because the cost of implementing these very small pensions is disproportionate to the material importance. I have received a number of questions on which I am about to go into detail. The third objective, as Mr Omtzigt rightly pointed out, is to adapt to an increase in the retirement age: the individual objection versus the collective objection. I will come back to Mr Omtzigt's specific questions in a moment. I've got a few cubes. The first block concerns the small pensions. The second block is the choice for a previous employer. Mrs Lodders, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Grashoff in particular spoke about this. The third block is the buy-back after an x-number of years: five years, three years. The fourth block is the limit of the date: is it 1 January 2017? Mr De Jong and others have asked for this. The fifth block is: why not buy it? The sixth block is the collective transfer of value, Mr Omtzigt's point, the calculation example and the discussion about it. Finally, there is the other block. Those are all small questions. I think I have all the subjects. I have a whole bunch of answers here that I'm going to go through with you in succession in the hope that you'll pay attention. The very small retirements. Ms Lodders asked why the €2 limit was chosen. It is a very small and workable amount. The amount is proportional, given also the balance between the costs to be incurred to maintain those very small claims in the pension fund administration and the material interest of the participant. Raising the border increases the risk of depriving them of their property, which is a fundamental discussion that some of your members have entered into. That is why the €2 limit was chosen. Mrs Lodders already referred to the amount of the Tax Administration, the €15 or the €14, in my opinion. That has been taken into account in the formation of thought about what a material amount is. It has served as inspiration; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u36	That brings me to the next question. The IRS is going to pay back to clients from €15, if I may call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u37	People.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u38	I feel like a client, including the IRS. It's been an inspiration, but I can see a difference. Mr Omtzigt already calculated in his contribution that it would soon be around €38, €40. Let's stick to €35 to €40. I can tell a difference. Why is this amount not set even lower, for example on the €15 the Tax Administration uses?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u39	This isn't rock science, is it? It concerns in particular whether the amount is proportionate to the cost of implementation. You have to choose an amount. Mr Omtzigt was right to say that an average life expectancy of 18 years at the age of 65 or at the age of AOW amounts to around €40. Each border is, in a sense, arbitrary, so it is indeed searching. Now the amount of €2 per year has been chosen, because it is a good workable amount. You have to draw a line somewhere. I can't make it much more nuanced. It is not based on a formula.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mrs. Lodders, you have an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u41	Yes, I do have an answer, but that is not entirely satisfactory. If the Tax Administration has to transfer money to the people, then they also have to deal with implementation costs. The same applies to pension funds. I keep wrestling with the principled point. The money has been raised by the employee and to some extent also by the employer, so it is owned by the participant, in this case the employee. Well, then I'm having trouble getting paid off. I think we should look for a balance. I believe that the balance is not quite in balance with other matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u42	I understand this discussion very well and you will see her on several files as well. This is, of course, always about proportionality and the balance between the public interest and the specific interest. A limit should be chosen as to what the implementation costs are and how they relate to the material interest of the participant. That's the trade-off you make. The amount of €2 has been chosen, with which the general interest and implementation costs for the whole system are so high that they do not outweigh the material importance of the pension claims accumulated. Is it, in a way, arbitrary? Yeah, that's true. But you have to set a limit and you have to strike a balance between the general interest and the specific interest. I can put a whole lot of money into that. I was just saying, the amount of the IRS is inspiration. But it's not rock science. Unfortunately, I can't make it much clearer. It's a line you're setting. Mrs Lodder also asked whether the clean-up of existing very small pensions would be desirable. The draft law makes it possible for the existing very small pensions to lapse, but it is not an obligation. It's really a possibility that we're putting in the law right now. It doesn't happen automatically. It is not an obligation or an automatism but the possibility for the pension executor to apply it in practice. This has been chosen because it can be very different with different pension administrators. If the pension administrator considers it desirable, the bill allows it to do so. The pension administrator must take a careful decision on this matter. It is clear that this is a restriction of ownership. Yeah, that's right. This is done in consideration of the general interest, where the exchange takes place. This limitation has been assessed in accordance with the relevant legislation. As indicated in the written reply, I believe there is justification for this. It is a general objective, it is also proportional and that is derived from the amount of the amount. It's almost a circular reasoning, but that's the trade-off you have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u43	Mr President, there is a danger that I will come forward every time, but that will help in the second term. To pay off: it is not an obligation but a right of the pension holder. Suppose a participant takes my colleague, who has built up €0.84 pension per year and sends a message to the performer. Can it go down that way? Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u44	I'm gonna take a look at the backup right now. I will return to this in second term. It is a specific question that you did ask in the first period, but I do not have the answer ready. Mrs Lodders also asked about the tax consequences. There aren't any. Questions were asked earlier to the previous Secretary of State for Finance and he indicated that there was no taxation on the expiry of very small pension claims. So I think that's the point covered. Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party has asked: are pension administrators also at legal risk because of the drop in a very small pension and what is the responsibility of the pension executive? The State and an individual pension fund each have their own liabilities and risks. Also for the deletion of existing very small pension claims by a pension administrator, the limitation of ownership is justified, because the scheme serves the general interest and is therefore proportionate, given the material importance of that €2. The risk to the State and a pension administrator differs in the sense that when the existing very small pensions expire, decisions are still taken by a pension administrator. It is therefore legally possible, but it is not an obligation. The new very small pensions will automatically lapse. There will no longer be a review. If the pension executive made that choice, it's an automatism. For a pension administrator, therefore, when existing very small pensions expire, there is a risk in the decision-making process, which will need to be done carefully and which will also need to be addressed. The pension administrator must inform the former participant of the decision so that it is known. The pension administrator will also account for this in the pension fund's management report; an additional guarantee for due diligence. Mr De Jong asked: why is a very small pension not automatically paid off and paid into the bank account? In preparing the bill, the possibility of a very small pension was considered. However, automatic redemption would not solve the problem of very small pensions. This is also evident from current practice. In many cases, the pension administrator does not have the necessary data, such as a bank account number, and in practice we see that many former participants do not respond to a buy-back offer. A letter will then be sent by the pension administrator, if we do have the address, but no response will be received. So you get very expensive trials where those letters are sent without being responded to. If the pension administrator does not have a bank account number, there can be no redemption. Automatic repurchase or simply depositing into the bank account is simply not possible. The offer to buy-back will only succeed in a limited part of the cases and will also entail costs that are disproportionate to the amount to be purchased, especially when it comes to that €2 per year, a total of €40 actuarially. In many cases, the pension executioner remains behind with a sleeper's appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u45	There's just a big difference between how things are going now and how things are going in a minute. Now a letter is sent saying: you can buy it off. It doesn't say otherwise. It's just gonna stay down. That is why this bill has been tabled. So if this is going to be a bit bigger than it is now, I could just imagine that people who put that money in would think: yes, wait a minute; it's just my money, no matter how small the amount. Moreover, I do not think €40 is such a small amount at all. If you can get that money back, then €40 is just €40. So I could just imagine that you might be able to get a little more response if someone were informed that he could now get that €40, and that it would expire otherwise. Has that been investigated, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u46	For that, too, I look at my support. That hasn't been investigated. This has simply been done in the core on the basis of proportionality and implementation costs, given that we have these small claims and that many attempts have been made in recent years to communicate. So, no, that hasn't been investigated. The choice now is indeed that there is a possibility of letting it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u47	That's crazy, because this is about property rights. Of course we are talking about small pensions; that is absolutely true. But it can also be about €40. If you can get that paid out, it's a lot of money for some people, I can imagine. So it wasn't even investigated what the response would be if a letter was sent saying: listen, you've now built up about €40; you can get that now, and if you don't respond to this, that €40 will expire. We're talking about property rights here. Would it not therefore be useful if the Minister went back with this and went to see if there might be a greater chance that many more people would react? After all, it's about people's money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u48	The system of this law is, of course, the following. For small pensions, up to €470 a year, the idea is: we're going to automatically transfer it to keep that money available. With these very small pensions, of €2 per year, the choice has been made precisely because of the material importance of this €2 and the general interest for the whole sector and the implementation costs to allow those pensions to lapse. I understand the question, but the more fundamental question that lies under it is actually the question that Mrs Lodder asked in advance, namely: why do you intervene in ownership? You intervene on the property right because it serves the public interest. Yes, that is, in a sense, a circular reasoning, but that is the choice contained in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u49	Finalizing, Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u50	I am referring to this because the Minister himself says that letters are already being sent about these very small pensions and there is no response at all, at least less response than we would like. I didn't report that. But those are letters that say: you can buy it off, period. It doesn't say: you can buy it off, or it will expire. In other words, people might think, if they got a letter like that, yes, fat ass, it's 40 bucks, but it's my money. The minister says that that wasn't even investigated while it was about property rights. Of course, the general interest is extremely important; this is also underlined by the PVV. That is why we say: why wouldn't it be possible to just buy off these super-small pensions? The Minister himself says that the response may be disappointing, but it has not even been investigated. Can the Minister return that is my only question with it and then come forward with a response to the Chamber stating the outcome of the inquiry into informing and buying off such smaller pensions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u51	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u52	The order is the other way around. In fact, the legislative proposal chooses, given that the implementation costs of these very small pensions are so high that they are not proportionate to the material importance of these small pensions, to say that we are automatically creating the possibility of dropping them. That's up to the pension administrator. This is happening on the assumption that a lot of costs are being incurred to provide information and to send letters of this kind. We don't want those costs anymore. That is in the public interest. That's what's behind that choice in the whole bill. So the fundamental question that is answered in the legislative proposal is that we do not want it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u53	In my view, we all agree that we should not impose high implementation costs on those pensions of €2 per year, but the question that is now on the table is not about that as far as I am concerned. The question that is now on the table is whether we can get these amounts up to €40 to the people who have ever built them up. I can imagine a last chance letter in the sense of: "This is your last chance. You can now pass on your account number. Then we'll transfer the amount x to you. If you do not, if you do not respond, it will expire." That seems to me to be a good idea to prevent the money from disappearing that is just people's money and that has been built by people. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u54	I shall come back to that in second place. I'm gonna figure out if this is a solution. The question of principle is, of course, the other way round, but I understand the question very well. I understand Mr De Jong's question very well. I'm gonna go check on the suspension. Then I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u55	I also have the impression that we are very much in line. If you have another supplementary question, that is all right, Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u56	I'd like to give the Minister the following. In my view, we agree on this fundamental question: we should not maintain all kinds of arrangements with UPOs and I know what is going on for this €2. But I would ask the Minister to make a cut between that fundamental question and the question of whether we can still get the money from the people who own it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u57	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u59	I agree with that question. If every few years we can send a UPO of pages to all those people, then once such a letter can also be sent. Indeed, that letter does not need to be sent five times, because then you will get a fairly comprehensive system. Once, digitally and by post if necessary. You respond in a few months and you give up your number, or you don't respond. Then everyone had that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u60	I understand this question from Mr De Jong, Mr Van Kent and Mr Omtzig very well. I'm gonna think about that, because I don't know exactly what the consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u61	You will return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u62	So I'll come back to it in second term. Mr Omtzigt asked why the employer did not opt for a refund instead of a very small pension. That's actually the same question. The refund of contributions was found to be too complex in the consultation with the Labour Foundation, where the main lines of the bill were established in consultation with the social partners. Premium refund requires additional data exchange between the employer and the pension administrator. They each have only part of the information, i.e. the duration of the employment and the amount of premium that must be available in order to allow that premium refund in practice. In that case, the administrative burden and costs are not in proportion to the size of the very small amounts contained in that overview. Furthermore, premium refunds are complex because they are always different amounts depending on the level of the salary and the duration of the employment. Many of these small pensions are very short-term employment, for example, for a week or 14 days. Then it's extra complex to get this back. This question is separate from the other question. I'd like to make that distinction. Mr Omtzigt also asked whether the value of a very small pension could be kept separate from a pension administrator without obligations such as UPO, communication and e-mails, as it could then be refunded in a number of years if such data were available. The answer is that this is not possible under the current pension law. It is not clear at the moment whether national or international obligations would allow this. This requires further investigation, so at the moment I cannot give a clear answer. Mr Omtzigt also asked whether one attempt could not be made to find out the bank account number before the amount lapsed. During the preparation of the legislative proposal, thought was given to the possibility of applying a waiting period before the very small pension lapses. That's kind of the discussion we just had. In this waiting period, another attempt could be made to retrieve a participant's bank account number. With a waiting period for the expiry of very small pensions, a large part of the cost benefit for the pension executive disappears and thus for the participants. Given the small material importance of the participant and the disproportionate cost to the administration, it has been chosen to abolish very small pensions. So every time I come back to this answer, I come back to the small pensions. That is also the line chosen in the bill. This has been discussed and discussed a great deal, including with the Labour Foundation. Mr Omtzigt also asked if the participant could see what the value was and how it was calculated. A participant may always ask the transferring and receiving pension provider how the transfer value was calculated. So there is that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u63	Someone can always ask the question, but does he also have the right to receive a detailed calculation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u64	My officials are nodding doubt. Maybe one of them can send me an answer, and I'll answer that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u65	I would like to, because I have become wise because of the damage and shame of ministers who say: yes, you have the right to ask. The right to freedom of expression is fairly enshrined in the Constitution. The point is that you simply get a calculation within a week or two weeks and have a way of objecting or going to the Ombudsman's Pensions if it really isn't right. You can't do that until you have a calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u66	I'll wait for the answer before I say anything unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u67	I would like to add my voice to what Mr Omtzigt said. The abstract existence of a right does not mean that it is also recognised in practice. There is also a communication problem. Then how is someone informed? Does it say in the communication that someone can ask it, that it can be simple and what does it get? If that right exists in abstracto and the calculation is available, I think it is to a large extent a communication issue. What remains is that someone still needs to feel at least to be taken seriously in this and have the opportunity to check what these pension practitioners are doing to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u68	Yes. I'll come up with the answer when I get it from my officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u69	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u70	There was one question left open on this point by Mrs Lodders. I just said I'd come back to that in second term, but I already have that answer. The question was whether your colleague could buy that amount of €0.84. That cannot be done, but there can be a transfer of value on demand, even for those very small pensions. That can therefore be done at the request of your colleague. I will continue with the second block, the block "choice earlier employer." Several people, such as Mrs Lodders and Mr Grashoff and Mr Van Weyenberg, have asked why the transfer of value is going to the next employer and not to the performer you used to build up. The participant already has no choice in the regular process of value transfer to which pension provider the pension is transferred. It is always the pension holder where he actively builds up at that time. That is the current practice. If members were to be able to choose which pension provider their small pension would be transferred to, there would be a risk of risk selection. Participants could actually go shopping to the pension fund with the best cover rate. Participants will choose pension administrators who are the most financially sound. This not only undermines solidarity and collectivity, because those who are left behind cannot or do not want to leave, but have to cope with the consequences. The question is, how big is this? Especially if you allow this wide, the potential can have greater consequences. But it is not an improvement either from the point of view of efficiency and the cost to the participants. The value transfer process will then be more like the regular value transfer, with the associated costs we already have. On the contrary, we want a system as simple and efficient as possible to reduce the costs for participants and employers. I agree that the review of the law will consider whether, in the situations where no new pension administrator is found, the transfer of value to the previous pension administrator with the highest pension claims of that participant can provide a solution. In this way, more small pensions can still be merged, while maintaining the pension destination, without the risk of the participant applying selection. A motion has been announced by Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. I'll wait for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u71	There is now an interruption by Mr Grashoff on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u72	I understand the Minister's words very well as regards the argument of risk selection and the cost of implementation for free choice. After that, the Minister said in his reply that he would like to examine in the evaluation whether such a transfer, an automatic transfer without that freedom of choice, to a previous pension administrator is possible if it is not possible to go to the current performer. But why does the Minister want to wait until the evaluation, because that is precisely a point that is part of the foreseeable issues? We could settle this relatively easily, either by means of a letter of amendment or by means of an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u73	In my view, it requires a more detailed analysis and study of the consequences of allowing that possibility. I have just pointed out the danger of risk selection and the danger of strange dynamics. I understand the request very well, as well as the wishes of several Members of the Chamber. But before I make that commitment, I'd like to take a good look at it and think about the consequences. Frankly, I can't do that right now, because we all know that people are going to show strategic behavior and because there are just differences in the level of cover and in the financial position of funds, which you shouldn't lightly step over. So I understand the request. A motion has been announced by Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg. I think I know what direction that motion is going in. I want to investigate this seriously, but I'm afraid I'm going a little too fast on this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u74	I think there's been a slight misunderstanding. The Minister goes back to the element of the risks associated with freedom of choice, while my proposal would be not to include that element of freedom of choice now, but this automation: if there is no new pension executive, and that has been tried a number of times, then you will automatically fall back on the pension executive, of course, with the greatest right built up. Well, that makes sense to me. I do not think that these risk selection elements are included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u75	Okay, then I misunderstood you. In particular, we are talking about the other amendment announced: if it cannot be transferred after five years, what will we do with it? This is really about more freedom of choice. That was Mrs Lodder's question and I responded to it. I will come to the question about the deadlines and how often you are going to try to transfer or buy off. In fact, that's what I'm coming up with. Several members, Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg, but also Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Omtzigt and also Mr Grashoff, asked for a fallback option to be included in the law. The amendment tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Lodders involves, for example, five years and five attempts, after which they are simply paid off. I understand this wish. It has been recognised that there will be small pensions that cannot be transferred directly. Think, for example, of situations with unemployment,zzp-ship or a subsequent employer without a pension scheme, the white spots. So there are indeed situations in which things are not automatically going well. In these situations, value transfer may be possible at a later date. There has to be that option. The law states that an evaluation is planned three years after the entry into force of the law. The idea was a bit to monitor how often this happens: how often does this situation occur and is this really a big problem or does it solve itself in practice? I heard you all very well. I think you have made a right point: you want to settle this in advance in the law. I also think that Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment can count on broad support, because a few attempts are being made and then a buy-back option is being introduced after five years. So I think I'm gonna throw down the flag and I'm gonna recommend that that amendment be incorporated into the law, so this problem has been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u76	Does the Minister see an opportunity within that amendment, which he welcomes, to look at whether after the third attempt another employer is being looked back at, so that there really is only an absolute need to be paid off?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u77	I understand the question. That was actually Mr Grashoff's question just now. I understand the system. I have to take a look at that, because this is very complex in the execution. I don't know if this is possible in terms of databases. I will come back to that in the second term, together with the points on the small pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u78	For the sake of completeness: under item No. 10 I have tabled an amendment. That is actually the same as the amendment tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Lodders. We'll have a little talk before the second term starts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u79	Yes, I have seen Mr Van Rooijen's amendment. I do not think there are any deadlines. Do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u80	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u81	Well? Okay, maybe the Chamber can come to one amendment in consultation. I understand and subscribe to the principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u82	In the second period, you will give a final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u83	Yeah, especially about whether you can't go back to an old pension fund after three years. I'll get back to you on that. Then the border of 2017. Several people, Mr Grashoff, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Lodders, asked why we are holding on to the 1 January 2017 border, considering that some people have already been informed that their pension would be paid off and should now be informed again that it will be transferred anyway. Different provisions apply to the automatic transfer of value of existing cases and new cases. So it's necessary to draw a line. Such a limit is, in a way, always arbitrary. The bill drew the line two years before the entry into force of this part of the bill. It's on January 1, 2019. The border was drawn on 1 January 2017. The sector wants to set the limit on 1 January 2019, i.e. at the time of entry into force of the law. This would mean that small pensions created in 2017 and 2018 would still be eligible to be paid off unilaterally. The right to repurchase will then expire in 2019. This is not in line with the objective of the legislative proposal, namely to ensure that as much pension-building as possible benefits the retirement destination. That's where it comes in. It has been recognised that on the small pensions that arose in 2017 and 2018, a stop letter has already been sent to the former participants, in which it can be communicated that the small pension will be paid off. These people do indeed need to be informed again. I'm sorry about that myself. When considering which disadvantage should weigh the most, i.e. whether to wait another two years and have the small pensions build up for another two years, or whether to make it benefit pension-building at the same time, we opted for the 1 January 2017 limit. I understand that there is also an amendment in preparation for a limit of 1 January 2018. I have no serious objections to that. It's a border, and it's arbitrary. I understand that proposal, because as of 1 January 2018, people cannot have received a note that it would be bought off. I can see that logic. An amendment has been announced, but I have not yet seen an amendment. If I agree with the logic and there is no legal text, I must send a letter of amendment myself. I therefore hope that there will really be an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u84	This is almost a call. The amendment is now being tabled. It was ready, but I was just curious about the Minister's image and waited. I understand his point of not setting the limit on 1 January 2019, because I also believe that we should reach the goal of this law as soon as possible. Indeed, the date in the amendment, 1 January 2018, has been chosen so that there can be no confusion because people have already been informed in the past. I think the Minister and I understand each other on this point. The legislative office is now bringing forward the amendment. If there is anything to improve in the legal technique, then of course I always recommend it, because it must be as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u85	If the amendment is available soon, we will ask the Minister in the second term to give an appreciation of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u86	The PVV asked questions about this in the written round. I'd still like to know from the Minister exactly what's going on. As a participant, you are informed that the pension can be paid off. Are there people who are going to receive another letter on the doormat saying: no, no, no, no, we're not going to buy it off, but we're going to do it another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u87	That is the risk that Mr De Jong himself has identified in the written input and Mr Van Weyenberg this evening. That was a risk. I believe that if the amendment is introduced on 1 January 2018, that risk will be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u88	Then I'll wait for the amendment. It is as good as taking over a PVV proposal. That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u89	Sure. I believe that Mr De Jong is indeed pleased that the PVV proposal will then be accepted by amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u90	The amendment must also be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u91	And they're also being submitted, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u92	And be filed. Let's see how it all goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u93	Mr Grashoff and Mr Omtzigt asked why a compulsory transfer was not chosen by the exporter. The answer is as follows. Some pension administrators aren't paying off right now. They would then have to incur additional costs for automatic transfer of value. Since they are not paying off now, the pension funds also reach the retirement destination. That has been a bit of the balancing to not make it mandatory. But there is always the obligation to accept incoming value transfer. That's part of it. This is why it is so included in the legislative proposal. Mr Van Kent asked: what does the Minister think about the existence of a forgotten pension? Pensioners do their best to pay all pensions, big and small, to the beneficiaries. People can check on www.mijnpensioenoverzicht.nl which pensions they have built up, so there is a registration of them. Pensions don't age, so all those people who think at a later point that they've forgotten something can still request it. It is therefore a recognised problem. We also try to unlock it through mypensionoverzicht.nl and give people more insight into what they have built up. We want to give people the opportunity to claim forgotten pension. But this bill doesn't change anything. Mr Van Kent has also asked: can the value of a small pension be used for early retirement and is the Minister prepared to take this step? Under the Pension Act, people receive lifelong old-age pensions. It doesn't matter how old they get. It is not possible to pay old-age pensions over a shorter pre-retirement period. It is possible, however, if you transfer your small pensions to the active pension, which increases the value of the pension, to draw that pension actuarially neutral forward and thus to benefit from the pension benefit earlier. That's not an early retirement and not a pre-retirement, but that's just the possibility you always have of getting your pension early. Due to the transfer of small pensions, these remain available for pension assets and increase that possibility, but it is not a pre-retirement or retirement scheme. Mr Van Kent has also asked a question about flex and firm. As I said in my introduction, I would like to return to the broader labour market agenda on flexible contracts and fixed contracts, which is also included in the government agreement. By the way, I have now arrived at the heading other than that, with all loose points. Mr Van Dijk asked when the law will come into force and whether it would be possible to transfer existing small pensions rather than the evaluation. The entry into force of course depends on the further treatment in your Chamber and in the Upper Chamber. It seems feasible to bring the law into force from 1 April 2018 or 1 July 2018. That would be great; the sooner the better. The value transfer component of small pensions is subject to entry into force on 1-1-2019. This also has to do with Mr Van Weyenberg's amendment on the border and the information period before that, and with the technical adjustments needed on the part of the Pension Register and on the part of all the practitioners to participate in the system. When transferring small pensions, there is a difference between new cases and existing cases. The new cases can go directly through the system from 1-1-2019. In the case of bulk existing cases, there are approximately 4.5 million; they are large numbers of debt securities need a phased and controlled transfer, because I do not want the Pension Register and pension administrators to become overburdened if they are to implement this law at one time. Lower regulation will therefore provide for a multi-annual approach in the first half of 2020, so that the bulk will not be transferred at once, but in steps. Otherwise it will be chaos in the execution. Mrs Lodders asked if the Pension Register was prepared for this new task. Yes, the Pension Register can handle this new task. Currently, mypensionoverzicht.nl is being rebuilt. The technical adjustments resulting from the legislative proposal will be taken into account during the reconstruction of mypensionoverzicht.nl. Pensioners shall be kept informed by the Pension Register of these technical adjustments so that they can make the necessary adjustments on their side in time. As of 2019, the Pension Register and pension practitioners are ready to start working on this new task. However, there is a phased approach, addressing the new claims as of 1-1-2019 and the old phased and controlled ones. Mr Van Rooijen said that communication is important in this legislative proposal and asked me to deal with it. Yes, Mr Van Rooijen is quite right. Good communication is an important part of this. Participants need to know what will happen to their small pension. Pensioners are the first move here. Pensioners are given the right to transfer small pensions. This is not a duty. In practice, therefore, the policy will vary from one operator to another. One-sided government communication is more difficult because it is ultimately a choice of the pension executive. But that does not alter the fact that we need to communicate very clearly and contribute to this change in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u94	Can I ask the Minister what that contribution could be? Because I think that, as ultimately responsible for the law after approval by the two Chambers, he also sees it as a task of his own to make the self-employed pension funds, as well as pension federations and the insurance sector really feel that communication with citizens must be good, and to monitor it. We sometimes talk about the distance between politics and citizens. Colleagues were also talking about this. This is an excellent thing: who doesn't honor the little one. Mr Omtzigt also mentioned this. This is a big thing for people with a small pension. Then communications are the least of the things that need to be done right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u95	Yes, I very much agree with Mr Van Rooijen, Mr President. There is also a great deal of attention to that. There is also a communication plan under construction, just to explain the system, so to speak. This is without prejudice to the fact that there may still be differences in implementation. But I very much agree with Mr Van Rooijen that this must be done neatly, clearly and in consultation with all those involved. That's what we're doing. Mr Van Weyenberg asked to consider the experiences and concerns of the participants in the evaluation. Mr Van Weyenberg asked for a commitment. That's what I'm saying, so that's easy. I am looking at Mr Van Weyenberg, but Mr Grashoff has also drawn attention to this. So I admit this to both gentlemen. Mr Grashoff also asked what the safeguards are for the participant, especially if things go wrong with the automatic transfer of value. The answer is: it's an automated system. This is now being made by the pension register and pension administrators in such a way that, in principle, those are always dangerous words. The participant can control the automatic transfer of value via the ex post disclosure by the new pension administrator, as the bill provides for this, and through the information on the uniform pension statement. Mr Omtzigt has asked for an example of calculation, and with that he somewhat surprised me, I say in all honesty. Can you give me one of those math examples? Yeah, basically, it could. Can the collective recalculation of your rights and then the individual advance, not lead to a lower pension? That was Mr Omtzigt's specific question. Yes, it could, but it could also lead to a higher pension. And that makes making such a calculation example so incredibly complicated. For the pension administrator recalculates on the basis of three bases: actuarial bases, i.e. forecasting table and experience factors, cost bases and interest bases. In such a calculation, the pension administrator must always rely on the most recent principles, but these change over time. Mr Omtzigt knows better than anyone that these foundations can change over time, because they are being revised periodically and it is very complicated to compare. It is therefore possible that the collective recalculation to a higher retirement age and the subsequent individual advance to the original age on different bases happens, for example because there is a new mortality table or a new interest rate situation. This then leads to a difference in pension benefits. The point is, of course, that the difference can work out both to the advantage and disadvantage of the participant. So there's ahead of time, and that's the guarantee that's in the bill. There's no bias in one direction or another. So it can work both ways. The Actuarial Society has also shown that it can work both ways. In addition, any difference resulting from recalculation and later calculation will be relatively small, because other factors, such as change in life expectancy or reductions, have a much greater impact on the final pension result. Especially when you look at last week's CBS figures about the increase in life expectancy, you see that this has major consequences for pension outcomes. So there is no question that this will affect members' benefits in advance. At the same time, participants benefit from the reduction in implementation costs through simplification, as well as from lower error sensitivity and clear communication. Those are just benefits that apply to everyone. But I can't give such an example of calculation right now. Mr Omtzigt remains seated and that is hopeful. But now he's gonna stand up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u96	Mr. Secretary, this is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u97	Yeah, I know. That was very consciously done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u98	I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u99	Yes, I also know the President from other meetings and he knows how to provoke me on such occasions. If there is another letter, I would appreciate such an example of calculation, because there may just be a few small things going wrong, I say. They are not only about a higher or lower pension, but also about the survivor's coverage. If you move from 65 to 68 and the survivor's coverage is on a risk basis or is not regulated as provided for in a number of pension schemes, the pension scheme expires in those three years. If in those three years someone dies and is automatically thrown back, the next of kin has no cover at all, while at first he thought he did. There are things in it that will not happen often, but which, when they occur, can be very nasty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u100	Big consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u101	Yeah, who can have big consequences for individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u102	The question is whether you want to come up with a calculation example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u103	And if you'd like to take a special look at the next of kin coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u104	You have to make a distinction. I have outlined that the calculation example has no bias in one direction or the other, but that it is very complicated to recalculate if you have other foundations. I think that has convinced Mr Omtzigt. The survivor's pension is a valid point. I have to think about that and I will come back to that in the second term. I can't really see the consequences of this. I'll get back to you on that. I think we all agree there's no bias in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u105	This is a Member of Parliament who has not been provoked by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u106	Next time I will provoke Mr Van Rooijen too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u107	You use the word "life expectancy." That's a word that can or should provoke a reaction. That reminds me that we recently know that the increase in life expectancy is stagnating. This has resulted in the next increase in the AOW age, as you announced last week. If this stagnant increase in life expectancy had occurred a little earlier, it would not have exceeded 67 years by three months and the retirement age for supplementary pensions would not have gone from 67 to 68 in one go. That's what I find bizarre about it. You'll see how it's all going. We now have a system in which the retirement age for supplementary pensions is 68, whereas for the AOW it is 67 and three months. If this stagnation in the increase in life expectancy had occurred a little earlier, those three months would not have been added and the retirement age for supplementary pensions would still be 67. This has a significant impact on the level of coverage, on the whole pension event and also on the rights that are being built up. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u108	Can you now come to a specific question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u109	Now that the Minister has mentioned it, I ask him if he can come back to it in the second term. There have also been more general questions asked by myself and colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u110	I think we should distinguish between AOW age and retirement age. Those are two separate issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u111	But they're connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u112	They're connected, I'm sure. Last Friday's CBS figures were based on the figures for 2023 and 2029, 2023 because of the AOW and 2029 because of the retirement age. The system that Minister Kamp chose in 2012, I say, memorized, is that people need to be clear in time about what happens to the retirement age. The system is that you make that choice five years in advance, based on the insights that there are then. I understand very well that these five years are needed to prepare people for what they will be in five years' time. If you're gonna get rid of that every time because there's new numbers, you're gonna get a yo-yo policy. I think it's a very complicated discussion. I'll admit it. I announced last Friday that the AOW age will not be increased in 2023, so it will remain at 67 and three months. I think it's important to stick to that, otherwise you'll get a yo-yo policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u113	I wasn't suggesting a yo-yo policy. I understand that very well. I just wanted to point out that it would have been different if this stagnation in life expectancy had occurred a little earlier. That's one. We'll talk to the Minister about that later. I would like to point out that this is a very rigid system. You have to ask yourself whether you should follow the first CBS forecast, as these forecasts can therefore be adjusted again. The first one will be final. If it turns out that this prognosis needs to be revised downwards, it is said that it cannot be brought back. I think that is a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u114	I understand. I sent a letter to the Chamber last Friday in which I made a comment on the forecasts. I'm gonna go in and see if we can make it more stable and predictable. So I'd like to come back to that later, but I sent a letter to the Chamber last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u115	I would like to come back to the point made by Mr Omtzigt. It may be difficult or disappointing for an individual in the collective transfer, especially towards retirement age, which may also lead to procedures, especially if it is disappointing. How does the Minister intend to deal with this? Can you, especially when it comes to an individual towards retirement age, not work with, for example, firm foundations, so that at least it is clear what the participant can expect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u116	I don't know if I fully understand the question. Mr Omtzigt's question at first was: if you start calculating back as an individual, is there a bias in the system? The answer to that is no. It may be different, that's true, but that has to do with other interest rates and other mortality tables and stuff. So it's very difficult to capture something one way or the other. Secondly, what Mr Omtzig said was about very specific risks, such as the survivor's pension. I find that harder to estimate. First of all, I really need to look at how that works precisely because it works on the basis of risk and not on the basis of capital cover. So I think you should make a distinction between these two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u117	These are absolutely two different things, but I am concerned about the first point that Mr Omtzigt made. Suppose it is disappointing for the individual, then there is probably also the possibility of an individual procedure. Is that provided for? What if it's really disappointing, what is your ability as an individual to do something about it? You can't change it so much at the time, as you're up against retirement age.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u118	The third part of the bill regulates this point, in the sense that it is collective but not individual. Again, we also checked with the Actuarial Society to see if there are any consequences. The estimate is that these are limited. But that is one of the elements of the bill that is now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u119	That is indeed stated in the legislative proposal, but suppose that, for example, DSM has a number of procedures for individuals because it is disappointing and they want to object. Then how does the Minister provide for that? Are these people being met or is it something of: that is the situation for that individual, it is disappointing but that is a pity? I imagine you're laying some kind of soil, in the sense that it should at least not be disappointing for that individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u120	It is complicated to give advance guarantees because of changes in the basis of these sums. Again, the biggest effect on pension outcomes is ultimately the increase in age expectations, which we see in the recent CBS projections that it continues to rise. In the legislative proposal we made that choice to make a reliable and predictable transition to the collective rather than to the individual recalculation. Mr Omtzigt asked a few more questions about the PEPP. I believe that this is also a motion from Mrs Lodders. There is currently a BNC sheet about the PEPP. The Netherlands is critical of the PEPP. Discussions are now taking place in Brussels on this subject. The cabinet will inform the House of Representatives about the progress of these talks. The BNC chip's already in the Chamber. Mr Omtzigt seems to have missed that and is about to look it up. Mr Omtzigt also asked when the IORP Directive would be implemented. The IORP Directive should be implemented by 13 January 2019; that is the deadline that came from Europe. Mr Omtzigt and Mr De Jong have asked whether the IORP Directive ensures that an UPO is sent every year. Yes, indeed, such a UPO must be sent every year, which can also be digital, just as it is based on the idea that your people are well informed about their pension. There is, of course, nothing wrong with it in the core if you inform people about how much pension they have built up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u121	Something's gonna go wrong now. Indeed, the IORP Directive says that all participants, all and everyone who participated, must be informed. So it is also about former participants. Then it is also about the so-called sleepers. And then it's also about the people who have a small pension of €2, who have 17 cents per month, rising to €40. In other words, this obligation to provide information means that pension funds, if we are to implement it, will have to incur more costs. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u122	I don't think you can put this relationship one-on-one like this. The broader consideration given in the legislative proposal is another, namely: how do we ensure that the small pensions that are being built up remain available for pensions? At the same time, these costs due to simplification and reduction of administrative burdens, which were already very high and were not proportionate to the €2 per year pension payment, are included in this legislative proposal. I know that Mr De Jong likes to blame Europe for a lot of things, but I think that is something to be desired in this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u123	I don't think it's entirely fair what's happening now, because I just read my pieces. The IORP directive simply says: all participants. At least the Pension Federation says it interprets it that way. This means that when we want implementation costs to be reduced, we are not going to spend all kinds of money on matters that we say 'that's also pension money that we spend on them, we should not do so', and we are going to spend that money when Brussels wants it to be. At the moment, these sleepers only have to do it once every five years. In the first place, it will be annual, when we were discussing the question of whether it should go from five to three years, as a Chamber: no, we will not, because then the implementation costs will be too high. In other words, this is a problem; we say in the Netherlands that we do not want to increase these implementation costs further, while the IORP is making sure that this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u124	In my opinion, it is all important in the Netherlands for pension participants to be well informed about their accumulated pension. Indeed, the IORP Directive lays down the obligation to do so per year. Of course, that can also be done digitally. But Mr De Jong is now making a very specific issue, namely those small pensions of €2 per year, the great reason why we should not adopt this bill. Of course, it's the other way around. We all think it is important that people are well informed about their pension and that they are given an annual overview of it. That's the main message.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u125	Mr De Jong, I would like to conclude by asking a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u126	I have indicated in my text that it could be a reason why this is happening now. I'm saying that for the following reason. Now it's five years, right away it's one year, and that's what's going to make sure that pension funds have to spend extra money to provide information on these mini-pensions. And that's what we didn't want as a Chamber in the past. This minister has said that these implementation costs are disproportionate to those small pensions. That's what the Minister says. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the Minister says. And now the IORP directive says that people must also be informed about this. That's gonna cost extra money. And then all of a sudden the Minister says, "Yes, you're making something very small into something very big." It's two-and-a-half. Or we all say that the cost of implementing pension funds should be reduced, that we are not going to implement the IORP directive and that we, as the Netherlands, are just doing as we are doing. Or the Minister is measuring with double standards and is suddenly going to do what they want when it comes from Europe, while it is going to cost extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u127	The choice before us has to do with the management costs, the administrative costs, the high costs of these very small pensions, which are therefore out of proportion to the material importance of these small pensions. In doing so, the public interest is chosen. Mr De Jong has added the IORP directive as a stick to strike with. I don't think that's justified. Of course it has consequences. I agree with Mr De Jong. If you have to give an annual overview, there will be consequences. But the reasoning in the bill is really a different one. At the heart of the question is: how do you ensure that small pensions are preserved for pension-building purposes? That's what the bill is about. This is an additional point of attention that we are also finding a solution to. The final question, Mr President, is the transfer of value in situations of pension fund coverage. It doesn't say who asked that question. Oh, Mr. Omtzigt was that. Is it wise to allow the transfer of value at 100% if pension funds are undercover? A simple and efficient route for the transfer of value for small pensions has been sought. An obstacle to the regular transfer of value is the suspensive effect in the case of cover; this obstacle has been removed in the legislative proposal. In principle, an outgoing value transfer in undercoverage leads to loss. 100% goes out, while the coverage rate is not 100%. An incoming value transfer in hedging results in profit again. The opposite principle also applies to a sound financial situation. An outgoing value transfer then leads to profit and an incoming value transfer leads to loss. Figures from the different funds show that outgoing value transfers of only the annual newly created small commitments have little effect on the coverage rate.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If existing small pensions are included, it has a slightly greater effect because of the higher numbers. It seems justified to carry out value transfers in undercover. In addition, the effects of outgoing value transfers and of incoming value transfers together represent the total effect on the level of coverage and they can interact with each other. The higher the number of small pensions to be transferred by means of automatic transfer of value, the greater the impact on the level of cover. This is certainly in favour of the bulk of the existing pensions I have just mentioned in reply to Mr Van Dijk, for a phased and controlled transfer, which takes several years. Finally. If the board of a pension fund finds that the interests of the remaining participants are harmed by using the right to automatic transfer of value, they have the possibility to waive it by virtue of a right and not an obligation to transfer value automatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u128	Thank you. Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u129	When we talk about cover and coverage, we come to a very broad area that we will often discuss with each other in the coming period. I have also tabled an initiative legislative proposal on this subject, which will soon be on the agenda. I do not think Mr Draghi is listening and watching to the Minister tonight, but would the Minister care to comment on the level of cover and cover? I ask that given the fact that at least a number of spokesmen in this Chamber, I am also looking at Mr Omtzigt, who thinks that that policy should stop and perhaps too far gone, and that it has also had dramatic consequences for the calculation rate, which has been deliberately manipulated downwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u130	I would like to mention the following: it is now 10 p.m. We agreed that we would deal fully with this law, so I do not want to have any broad reflections here. If the Minister wishes to say two words, I will give him room for that, but as far as I am concerned, that can happen at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u131	It's very tempting, but let's do it at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u132	I think that's an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u133	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u134	I have one final question to ask the Minister, and that is whether he still wants to make an appreciation of the amendment on item No. 9. Or can we expect that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u135	Mr President, I wanted to come back in second place anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u136	I saw the minister raise his finger, maybe that means something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u137	I know that Mr Van Rooijen is very interested in this and wants to discuss it regularly. We will, indeed, soon, Mr Van Rooijen. I would come back to two things in the second term: the last chance letter from Mr Van Kent, Mr Omtzigt and Mr De Jong. The other point concerns the risks for survivors in the collective individual recalculation. The amendment in part No. 9
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u138	Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u139	The amendment in part No. 8 by Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg are indeed about those five attempts five years before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u140	That'll come back, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u141	That's what I've given my judgment on. I support that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u142	As far as I know, you'll come back to that, but you're saying that your appreciation of that is "judge chamber"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u143	I've already made it clear that I'm leaving it to the judge of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u144	It's nice to see that we're seeing each other for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u145	I thought we were gonna do that in second term, but now that you're asking, I'm doing it now. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u146	My question concerns the amendment to item No. 9, because that hasn't been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u147	That's about the front, I guess, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u148	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u149	I wonder, I say to Mrs Lodders, whether such an amendment is necessary. I understand Mrs Lodder's question about informing the Chamber. I would like to do that, of course, but a provision is a heavy instrument. If I promise to just send it, I'll look at the officials: is that a good formulation? I hope that Mrs Lodders will withdraw this amendment. Do you want me to do the other one?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u150	It's okay. But I don't see Mrs. Lodder walking to the microphone. Then it might be nice to know what you're doing if she doesn't move in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u151	Can I come back to that in second term? Perhaps Mrs Lodders should give this some thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u152	Sure. Thank you. The minister was ready, but Mr. Grashoff has one last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u153	It arose a little when the Minister said that he had the amendment in part No. 8 by Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg, while there is still a discussion on the option not to buy off but to look at a previous pension fund. I think that is extremely important. I also wonder if the Minister is a little too quick. We will also have the effect of looking at the large number of small pensions that have already been built up in general terms. If you look at this, by analogy with this amendment, it may mean that in the coming years of many still existing small pensions, it will be established that there is no new active pension-payer and that they will all be paid off successfully. That's a lot of them. Is this reasoning wrong or am I missing something? I think there's a risk in this, especially if you're gonna plow back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u154	I do not quite understand Mr Grashoff's question. For me, there are now a few discussions running through each other. The amendment tabled by Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg means that, after five attempts, you will still have a chance to buy off in five years. The other question, which Mr Grashoff has indeed asked, concerns the choice to transfer to another pension fund. In my view, this is linked again to the debate that Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Lodder are having on the motion they have announced. I think that is a valid point. I said this in the first place: I understand the wish of the Chamber, not only of Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg but wider, to have some sort of cut-off date. But that's a different discussion than the one about freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u155	No, there's a bit of misunderstanding there. In my opinion, unless I completely overlook something, but I do not think that the relationship with choice is not so much in the context of freedom of choice as in the context of automatism to say not after five years: okay, then it can be bought off, or then it is bought off. I believe that the first step, the transfer of value to a previous pension fund, is crucial, especially if we are to look at not only the new small pensions but also the already existing small pensions along this same measuring bar. Then there will be a situation where someone can have much more than one small pension. With this system, we are always looking at a new pension provider, who is not there. Then the conclusion is always reached: oh, buy it off. In my view, this remains under the radar in this debate, and I believe that it is essential for the proper implementation of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u156	I'm gonna let this work out for myself, because I honestly don't understand it. I do see nodding in the civil servant's lodge. Maybe we should get back to it in a minute. But perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg can explain it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u157	Let me try and see if we understand correctly. I think Mr Grashoff and I are looking together. The amendment deals with this: if we have not been able to find anyone after five years, we can still pay off. Mrs. Lodders and I are looking wider: shouldn't you be able to choose what you're transferring? Mr Grashoff has a kind of variation on this subject; we are all talking about this issue. If I understand him correctly, this is what he's asking. The amendment tabled by Mrs Lodders and myself attempts to transfer five years. I get the impression that Mr Grashoff would like it if, for example, the third time, after having failed twice, another pension fund could automatically be shown in the system. The question to the Minister is whether that could be done. I see Mr Grashoff nodding. I think that's a variation on a theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u158	In fact, it is a variant that lies between the Van Weyenberg/Lodders amendment and the potential motion. I'm gonna think about that. I'll get back to you in a second. I think you will have to have the fundamental discussion about whether there is freedom of choice, but I will come back to it in more detail in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u159	Last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u160	The Minister rightly makes the distinction that freedom of choice is another aspect. For me, that's not the point at all. I understand the risks involved. But again... otherwise the Minister will also have to discuss it in a brief suspension. If you are going to apply this law not only to the new cases of small pensions but also to the existing ones, which is explicitly the intention of this law, then in my opinion a sum of small pensions can be added which, using the Van Weyenberg/Lodders amendment, ultimately leads to the disposal of several small pensions from one and the same pensioner. I'd find that undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u161	I want to think about the principle issue. I don't know if the last point is really the problem. I honestly don't think so. It's about really small pensions: five years, five attempts. I will come back to it in the second term, but we do not need to find a solution to a non-existent problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u162	We are going to continue this debate in the Minister's second term, but first of all I would like to give the Chamber the opportunity to conduct that second term. We can continue on this point, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u163	No, Mr. Chairman, certainly not at this point. I'll do that in second term. I think the Minister was in the process of announcing the last chance letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u164	No, he said he'd come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u165	Two points remained in the first term: Mr Omtzigt's survivor's pension and the last letter of several spokesmen. I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u166	That's right, so we're moving on to the second term of the Chamber. We're going back to the list, starting with Mr Van Kent of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. With regard to the forgotten pensions, the 385 million still on the shelf, the Minister says: I am familiar with that, it is a well-known problem. In my view, the problem has to do with this bill as well. I have not heard the Minister say anything about how that problem can be solved, except that pension funds and the industry themselves are approaching and inviting people to claim that pension. In my view, there is also a responsibility for the legislator, that is to say to this minister. I would like to have some more concrete proposals on this. I asked a question about reducing the number of pension funds. I believe that this also has to do with this law and with the problem involved. I would like an answer to that. Then what's already been called the last chance letter. I am simply counting on the Minister to adopt this practical solution and to be able to solve the problem in this way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u168	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u169	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is a small law, but it is a technical law with a number of very technical matters. First of all, the small pensions. The Minister has indicated that the amount is actually arbitrary. I have indicated that my group thinks it is a matter of principle. The costs are high and thus it also affects the general interest. The Minister has just confirmed once more that he will return to the last chance letter. I would like to await the answer in the second period on that point. However, I would ask the Minister to make an explicit reference to the balance between costs and value in order to ensure that the remaining participants do not face excessive costs, because they ultimately pay the bill. I'm asking him to make the difference. Perhaps the Minister can help me by at least admitting, apart from the answers he is going to give, that this will be taken into account in the evaluation and that it will be made clear what the average cost is to buy off that very small pension. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. Mr. Chairman. I have announced a motion on the transfer of value to an executive where pension has been built up in the past. I'll file it now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a pension entitlement can only be transferred to the current pension administrator and not to a pension administrator where the pension participant has accumulated a pension in the past;]] [[noting that this does not always allow pension participants to choose the option best suited to their personal situation;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the obstacles that exist to offer pension participants the option of transferring the value to a pension administrator where the pension participant has accumulated pension in the past, or how these obstacles have been overcome and to inform the Court within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Lodders, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34765-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u170	I had already indicated that I was considering an amendment in the first instance. I must say that I would like to wait a little while, having heard the discussion here in this Chamber. It could perhaps be a sub-amendment to the previous amendment. I would also like to point out to the Minister that, should this prove to be the case, and I am looking towards Mr Grashoff, this should be the pension fund in the past where the greatest claim has been made, in order to settle the difference between small pensions and voluntary transfers of value. I'd love to take care of it, but I don't think it's fair to settle it with this bill. So I will at least give that consideration to the Minister: either we come up with an amendment or perhaps a small note of amendment. Finally, two other points. I welcome Mr Omtzigt, who quoted the Lodders/Omtzigt motion in his first term. The motion adopted concerns developments in the PEPP. We definitely got the chip. As a Chamber, at least we as a VVD and I think the CDA have contributed to that, so we will certainly come back to that. But again, it's an adopted motion. Mr President, the very last point. The amendment in part No. 8 I will submit amended. Because Mr Van Rooijen in part No. We believe that it would be wise to combine an amendment of the same nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u171	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen; he has just been quoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u172	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister, in particular for his commitment to follow closely how the law, once it has been adopted, is communicated to the field, particularly to the participants, the citizens. He says: in all these pension funds, it's all different and everything. That is true, but it is about one and the same law for all those involved. This is precisely where the Minister is at the centre of that very large playing field. I didn't get the impression it was him, but I want to make it clear that it's no reason to be extra reluctant because the field is diverse. The central point is that there is a law that is accepted from this house and from the Senate. Finally, one final point. A few moments ago, in the case of interruption, there was talk of life expectancy and the automatic link between life expectancy, AOW age and retirement age for supplementary pensions. That is, of course, a very rigid system. So that turned out to be last week. What do you do if there's a delay in the rise? You'll stop it for a second. I agree with the Minister that you're not just gonna yo-yo and say, "We're gonna step back." However, I understood the Minister in such a way that he would like to look again at my intervention in the event of interruption to see whether this automation should not be considered further. I would like an answer or clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u173	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk, PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u174	Thank you, Mr President. It is quite an achievement that we are able to talk about a law that we actually agree on in the Chamber for more than three hours. That says something about the importance of the subject, I suspect. That promises a lot for the future. For the pension debates, we have to go out all day! I have two brief points. My group also supports the request for this last chance letter to be made possible. It is small amounts, but still, it is an amount and a right of ownership. Secondly, I support Mrs Lodder's motion on the possibility of placing claims accumulated in the past with another fund, simply because the situation requires it. Then, as far as we are concerned, we are not talking about a whole debate on freedom of choice, because I think I am going to go a little bit further with Mrs Lodders. It's about claims from the past, for which you might have a better destination than the pension fund you're currently in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u175	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u176	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to wait and see what the Minister says in the second term on the question of how to transfer value to an older pension fund. Apart from the question of freedom of choice, I would like to say very emphatically, because I believe that, in conjunction with the Lodders/Van Weyenberg amendment, which is now before us, this could lead to undesirable effects. In my view, they are also undesirable from the point of view of the authors of the amendment itself. Of course, I can't judge that exactly, but I think that might be the case if you were to plow back and run into some very small contracts built up in the past, all of which are not transferable to a current pension fund. I think that is really an important point and that we need to see if the law at that point ultimately does what we all meant. That's one. Secondly, very small pensions and the last chance letter. In the course of this debate, I am actually convinced by my fellow Members that we would be wise not to let that lapse automatically, because it is not €0.17 or €2 but a value of some tens of euros. Then it starts to come into the order of magnitude where I think you couldn't do that with good decency anymore. I can imagine that a last chance letter to allow someone to collect that money should be possible at significantly lower implementation costs than that amount. If it really isn't, I think it's gonna be different, but I can imagine that it is. Finally, the motion by Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg on freedom of choice. I will support it, but not necessarily from the perspective that I agree in the end that freedom of choice should be created, even this limited freedom of choice. I support the motion because it is an investigative motion that calls for a moment's review of the obstacles and other issues. I think it's good to do that. It may be possible to do so without very large risks. We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u177	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. Thank you for the positive assessment of Mrs Lodder's and myself's amendment. If that is very similar to Mr Van Rooijen's amendment, we in the Chamber are going to come out and put them together. Mr. Chairman. I also filed a motion. I'm hoping for a positive verdict. In the meantime, the amendment has also been circulated to apply 1 January 2018 instead of 1 January 2017. By the way, an amended version minus one typo will be distributed, but the only difference is that typo. I'll announce that in advance, to avoid confusion. Mr. Chairman. Then there is indeed the question about such a last chance letter. I like it, but I do have the question as to whether this works, whether it is workable, and how the costs and benefits outweigh each other. I look forward to that answer. Mr Grashoff was concerned, bearing in mind the amendment tabled by Mrs Lodders and me, and I also think Mr Van Rooijen, that after a few times or after a few years of waiting, you have all built up crumb pensions that could be something else together, and asked if you could transfer them elsewhere. I'm waiting for the answer to that. I think the question is also: is this a bit workable? I think that's the main question. We are here looking for a way to regulate it as precisely as possible, but at the same time we have to consider the feasibility. That was, for one thing, the starting point of this whole bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u179	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr De Jong of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is very good that the Minister returns to that last chance letter. That's about those very small retirements. But I think the main thing is that you should be able to pay off those pensions. There has to be that principle. It is good if there is such a last chance letter, but in whatever way it happens, the ability to give the money back to the person for whom it was intended, to the person who put it in, must be there. That's just a ownership element. I would like to put a little more pressure on it by tabling a motion because it is a matter of principle. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make it possible to pay off very small pensions, with a maximum of €2 per year or €0.17 per month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34765-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u181	Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the IORP story. The reason I'm gonna go for that is because I'm gonna go for the next one. We all agree here in the Chamber that implementation costs should be reduced. That's to the advantage of the system. In the end, that is also in the interest of the participant. I think two and a half years ago the Pension Communication Act was dealt with here in the Chamber. At some point in the course of the treatment a discussion has arisen in the sense of: should we not inform the large group of dormant participants of small pensions once every three years? That was five years ago. Then the Chamber said: no, we should not do that, because then the cost of implementation will go up. That's very legitimate. So what happened then? That's when the law said that it had to be once every five years. That law was passed by the entire Chamber. Mr Koolmees also voted in favour at that time. Now Mr Koolmees says that these implementation costs are important, but for me information on these very small pensions can be provided once a year. But that also results in high implementation costs. I think that's crazy. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to implement the additional information requirements resulting from the European Revised IORP Directive,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34765-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u182	If the minister really wants the implementation costs down, he'll just take this over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u183	Thank you. As the last speaker on the side of the Chamber in the second term, Mr Omtzigt, CDA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying in the first term. I am very curious to hear what we are about to hear about the last chance letters on very small pensions. If that is not possible, then I am considering arranging for the last letter to be sent, or to submit my amendment which I had already prepared and which is already known to the Registry, in order to allow those pensions to stand until they can easily be paid off once. There really is a consideration in the interest of when you may proceed to expropriation. Remember that it is the Minister for Social Affairs who signs the collective agreement which obliges someone to give up part of his salary as a pension contribution. If that goes down in one go, it doesn't feel very good. By the way, I was a little surprised at the fact that all the benefits would pass if there were a year waiting in between. I would also find it very legitimate to wait for it to be paid off, because in some of these sectors, particularly in the temporary employment sector, it is very logical that someone should be out of work for a while and go back to work. Part of the problem will then be solved before a pension is paid off. So waiting is sometimes very good. That's what this person says, who sometimes waits a long time for other reasons. Isn't that right, Mr. Chairman? Just because sometimes things don't get done in time. Two. I'm just waiting for the answer on the survivor's pension. Three. That was another commitment on the right to reply. Someone may indeed ask for the calculation, but someone is not entitled to the calculation. I'm sure I'll table a motion on that. It can always be stopped if the Minister comes up with a good answer. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas members should be able to keep track of their pension claims even if a small pension claim is transferred;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that participants have the right to receive the underlying calculations of the value of the small pension claim transferred within two weeks on request;]] [[invites the Government to report to the Chamber within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34765-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u185	It is then a question of who can find some of it, if that calculation is not correct at all. I am still curious about the answers to the questions about going back to the old pension fund. I think it is very desirable that a solution be found for this. I thank the Minister for coming back soon to the whole new pension system. If we did that now, we could discuss for a few more days, as you know. I'll spare you that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I agree with Mrs Lodder's words on the PEPP. Every week that we continue to negotiate, we slowly continue swimming in the trap in which we did not want to swim. There is no pan-European market for pension products and there is no pan-European tax system where this fits in. So we just have to stop that at an early stage. I'd like to hear from the Minister when he comes back to this. This can also be done with a commitment that he will really insist that the questions raised in the Finance Committee be answered quickly. Because if we keep doing this, we'll end up stuck to something. I'd rather not. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u186	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. After the suspension, we will continue with the second term of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u187	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment on the Small Pension Transfer of Value Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u188	Mr. Chairman. This seemed like a little law, but it's turned into a big discussion. I would like to thank Members for their second-term questions. I shall begin with the difficult point, namely the last letter, which many of your Members have asked for. I've checked and come up with a comprehensive answer. First of all, I would like to make the following point. Various alternatives have been considered in the drafting of this bill. For example, we have looked at automatic transfer of value, at redemption, but also at the handling of a waiting period for lapse, as Mr Omtzigt suggested. However, current practice shows that these alternatives do not offer any relief, because with these alternatives a large part of the cost benefit for the pension executive disappears and thus the benefit for the collective, which is the reason behind this bill. It also appears in current practice that very few people apply for value transfer for such a small pension. People don't think it's worth it because it's about very small amounts. Then again, its costs are not proportionate to the amount involved. By way of illustration, I note that a successful attempt at repurchase costs about €15 to €100 per transfer. Then it's about a successful attempt that succeeds in one go. This is the kind of cost you have to think about. That is why the balance has also been made on the €2 per year. On the basis of the current legislation, it is possible for participants to apply for an individual transfer of value for a very small pension until the entry into force of the bill. The possibility of transferring such a very small pension simply exists. Participants cannot, however, ask for redemption. Pensioners can offer that. We've also been in contact with the sector. If you were to send such a last chance letter, the sector would say that this simply costs too much money and that the benefits of this bill would actually be nullified. The cost of implementation is so high that the expiry of small pensions does not really matter anymore. What I can do, however, is to respond to Mr Van Rooij's question about the communication on the bill, which is not a last chance letter, but to remind everyone that this bill is coming and that there is therefore a possibility for individuals to arrange for individual transfers of value for the small pension. That's an attempt to meet the Chamber. If you really "do" a last chance letter, I think that would simply delete the core of this part of the bill, because those costs simply don't outweigh the benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u189	In the first part, when the Minister and I had a little debate on this subject, the Minister, after a question from me, indicated that we did not investigate what the response would be if a letter was sent indicating that people have the opportunity to get the money they have invested or that it will lapse. So the Minister said he hadn't investigated it. Now, in the second term, he comes up with the answer that this makes no sense because there is little response, but you have not investigated it. It's about people's money. When it comes to implementation costs, I am right to have coverage for the Minister. If he says he doesn't "do" that annual information on sleepers, he takes money there. Then he can just send that last chance letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u190	Unfortunately, that is not a solution. I have outlined the various options that have also been considered in the drafting of the legislative proposal. I have also outlined what the practice is. I have also outlined that the cost of a successful buy-back is between €15 and €100 in one go. We are talking about a maximum of €40. Usually it's less, because it's usually smaller than that €2. These costs simply do not outweigh the benefits of this bill. I wish that were different, but that's just not the case. That's what the border is based on. If you take that out or if you demand that there be such a last chance letter, the added value of this part of the bill will actually lapse. Then there will be no cost benefits either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u191	Mr De Jong, concluding on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u192	This almost reeks of unwillingness. If you don't investigate what the response would be about getting your own money back, the minister says that he didn't investigate it and that he just doesn't. We, the PVV, want the implementation costs to go down, but the Chamber has now also indicated that I have heard a lot of voices about this, and that the opportunity should be given to the people who have invested the money simply to give that money back. You didn't investigate what the response would be when such a letter was sent. That reeks of unwillingness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u193	I find that disappointing. I think I indicated in the reply that several variants have been investigated. In the second term, I will also indicate where I see opportunities, namely through such a communication channel, that people would point out that they could do so. The experience from the past is that people react very little to letters we have sent and that it is about very small financial interests. And yet, considering everything, the bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u194	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u195	I hear the Minister say that few people respond to that letter. The Minister uses that as an argument, but I don't think a letter has ever been sent saying "this is your last chance." I therefore believe that this argument is not useful in this debate. I also hear the Minister say that a successful buy-back costs €15 to €100, but you are talking about an individual who makes a request. Then the mill has to grind and the money is finally transferred. Then I believe that, but when a massive last chance letter is sent, you're talking about very large quantities at once. You'll have mass. Moreover, the sending of that letter is different from when someone makes a request to a pension fund. I do not think that argument is valid either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u196	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u197	I would also like to respond to the arguments put forward by the Minister here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u198	Yeah, but we've been at it for three hours. I would, however, like us to try to limit the interruptions to a specific question to the Minister. You have given an introduction and I would appreciate it if you could come to a question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u199	I'll get right to the question, Mr. Chairman, with an apology. If I take up the Minister's arguments, I have the impression that there has not been sufficient thought about this and that there has not been enough discussion with the sector. I can imagine that this question was asked for a moment and that it was said at that time: €15 to €100. But I think the idea of that last chance letter deserves further study. I would therefore ask the Minister not to take a clear position on this at the moment, but to send a letter to the Chamber, to investigate further what the costs actually are and to check the arguments he has just used in the light of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u200	Again, I understand the Chamber's request. I have received this signal from several Members. I have therefore asked what happened and checked in the preliminary draft law to see how this could be resolved. I would like to mention, for example, the automatic transfer of value and the buy-back. The following picture remains: you have to choose a limit for the expiry of the small pensions and that brings with it cost benefits, but if you send such a last chance letter, then all the cost benefits are gone. That is precisely the essence of Mrs Lodder's discussion of the general interest versus the material small interest of small pensions. Unfortunately, it's no different. I'll warn the Chamber: if you send such a last chance letter, all the benefits of the bill will be lost. Then the question is, why would you do it? Well, then you're gonna miss some of the cost benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u201	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u202	This is the second question I am asking. It is an important issue in this debate, in my view the most important one now. I am glad that the Minister does not repeat his arguments, but only remains at the cost. That is the only argument that the Minister is still using. I believe that this cost is still not sufficiently substantiated, as I have just said. This is because a large mass is created when you send everyone such a letter and so the handling, allocation and distribution can be done on a large scale by the pension funds, which, in my view, makes me think that the costs are far lower than when all individual applications are made. Is the Minister prepared to look into that further and inform the Chamber about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u203	Now I see nodding in the civil servants in the back. Can we investigate that? I'm a little hesitant myself. In an earlier phase it has already been examined; it has been examined. Of course, a last chance letter like that costs a lot of money. I think I have just made a move towards the Chamber by pointing out that this point will receive extra attention for the entry into force of the bill, so that people with a very small pension are triggered to take action for themselves to transfer value. I see the point of principle, and I also think that people should be reminded of it. Alternatives have been sought throughout the preliminary phase of this legislative proposal, but all these alternatives have disappeared in consultation with the Labour Foundation and with the sector. That is not for nothing, of course, because the cost of such a letter is very high. I want to think about it, because my officials are sending the signal that it needs to be explored. Then I will come up with a supplementary letter stating whether it is possible, and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u204	I hope that letter can be there for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u205	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u206	I see everyone laughing, but I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u207	No, there is agreement, understanding, because it is of course relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u208	Understandably laughed: that's nice. The Minister states that he can point out to people that they can make that request. But is the Minister not afraid that it will be many times more expensive for individual requests by all people over time than sending one mass mailing and handling the mass after that? Could the Minister include this in his letter? I can imagine that could be more expensive in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u209	I'd almost go you-bake, but I'm not gonna do that. It's two-and-a-half. The idea behind this bill is, of course, precisely that the balance between the overall cost benefits and the material importance of small accumulated pension rights has reached that threshold of €2. I listened very carefully to the Chamber, you know. I have been given a very clear signal that the Chamber believes that such a signal should be sent. But if you're going to give such a signal, then there are costs, substantial costs involved, which I'm going to repeat myself... the cost of the bill...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u210	No. I suggest we don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u211	Don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u212	So there will be a letter on this before the votes. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u213	I hear the Minister say that the cost of a successful buy-back is €15 to €100. I think that's a pretty big bandwidth. The question that I asked in the second term, perhaps I am a little too early with my interruption, was whether the Minister would like to undertake to investigate it and to include it in the evaluation or rather to come forward with it earlier. I think we should trigger the pension administrators to keep those costs as low as possible. Again, I think the bandwidth is pretty strong. That is the first point I would like to make. Then there is the second point. I have just heard the Minister say in reply to previous speakers that the benefits of the law on this section will disappear. But I will continue to stress not only the benefits that have fallen, but also the costs that will be borne by the remaining participants. Actually, I think that's even more important. At the moment when the costs of the letter or other communication have to be borne by the remaining participants, I think that we really need to make the right balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u214	I recognize that last trade-off, too. It is also included in the bill, but I will also include it in the same letter, in order to make a clear choice. These are indeed the advantages and disadvantages of the system. I'll take it with me. Mrs Lodders also asked about costs versus value in the second term. This point is explicitly taken into account in the evaluation when it is mapped out. I can make that commitment. I shall now pass the questions and the motions in order of speaker. Mr Van Kent has called for extra attention to be paid to forgotten pensions. Are there concrete proposals for this? It is an ongoing policy to bring this to the attention of the public. It is an ongoing policy to try to bring this to the attention of people who have built up a pension somewhere but have forgotten it. I don't see any additional steps here. It's a real policy that's going on, and I just want to get on with it. We also asked for a reduction in the number of pension funds and for concrete numbers. There are no concrete numbers, but there is indeed a consolidation going on in the pension world. More and more pension funds sit together because of professionalism and directors. There are no targets for the number of pension funds to be created, but there is a consolidation impact, which has reduced the number of pension funds in recent years. The motion of Lodders, Van Weyenberg, Omtzigt and Gijs van Dijk in part No. 12 I would like to leave to the judgment of the Chamber. I do want to explore what is possible in this. I would like to thank Mrs Lodders for putting her amendment together with Mr Van Rooijen's amendment. I think that the point has been resolved and that the Chamber of Parliament has given a clear signal, but that is a bit of entrapment, that this limit must be incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u215	This entrapment isn't so bad. One will be enough for now. However, I would like to inform the President and the Minister that I am withdrawing my amendment. I will co-sign the other amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u216	The Van Rooijen amendment (Doc. 10) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u217	I think I have had Mrs Lodder's comments on this. Mr Van Rooijen has called for attention to be paid to communication. Before there is any misunderstanding about this, I say that communication on this bill is extremely important. In my reply, I only tried to indicate that there is a wide variety of pension administrators in the various schemes. The communication on this bill is clear. It will be brought out through the Department of Social Affairs in the coming months. But the diversity behind it is, of course, large. I just wanted to point that out. Then last Friday's life expectancy and CBS figures. Last Friday I sent a letter stating that I would like to look at a more stable system. That's what my promise was about. This concerns, in particular, life expectancy. How can we ensure that all kinds of movements are not created in the CBS's estimates, in order to avoid yojo policy? I will come back to that later, when I have had contact with the CBS about the estimation system. Mr Van Dijk also asked about the last chance letter. That's what I've been talking about. He also signed off on the motion I just gave Chamber. Mr Grashoff asked about being able to transfer to another pension fund independently of the freedom of choice debate. That is therefore between the motion and the amendment. We can't do this right now. Maybe in 2021, if the systems are further ahead, it will be possible. But it's not possible at the moment. But I do admit that we are going to include this in the evaluation to see if it will be possible by then. I hope to have made a move towards Mr Grashoff. I've already talked about the last chance letter. Mr Van Weyenberg: the amendment has been merged. That's what I gave "judge chamber." The amendment in part No. 11 to take 1 January 2018 as the limit, has been submitted. That's what I want to give "judge chamber." I think it is clear that people who have already received a letter on small pensions 2017 should not be surprised by a sudden buy-back. I think this is a sensible amendment to introduce. Mr De Jong has tabled two motions. The motion in part No. 14 calls on the government to make it possible to pay off very small pensions with a maximum of €2 per year, and to proceed to the order of the day. The motion in this form must be discouraged, but I refer, of course, to the letter I am still writing about the last chance letter. The motion in part No. 15 with the request not to implement the IORP Directive, I must advise against. That will not surprise Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u218	But Mr De Jong does have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u219	Sure, 'cause I'm surprised. This Minister points out that he considers it extremely important that the cost of implementation should be reduced. Since he thinks so, I would like the Minister in the letter with additional information, which he is going to send, to indicate the financial consequences of the additional information rules or matters that will make us do more now by IORP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u220	Is the Minister willing to take that with him in his letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u221	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm not. The implementation of IORP is now scheduled for January 2019. This has been the subject of a wide-ranging debate. That information is there. The demands are there. I do not think it has any added value to start another debate on this now. It is indeed about annual information. It's also about digital information. I think the costs are limited in this respect. And yes, a less number of small pensions also means fewer UPOs. Again, I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u222	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u223	We had about 9 million sleepers in 2015. That's a lot of people. If you have to provide this information five times in five years, whether digital or by letter, instead of once, because also a digital message is a whole preparation and that costs money, then that is substantial, I think. At least that's something you want to know. If you could save a bit of money on that for the pension system, wouldn't that be fantastic? I, as a Member of Parliament, just want that information. Can the Minister please, in his first debate here on pensions, take a little account of what the Chamber would like: information? Could the Minister please indicate in that letter the additional financial consequences of the additional information, since he is already sending a letter? That's it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u224	That is a repeat of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u225	Yes, I'm sorry, I'm sticking to the verdict on the motion, Chairman. Mr Omtzigt has asked a number of very specific questions, in particular whether the survivor's pension is part of the collective individual calculation examples. The conversion relates only to old-age pensions. The partner pension is excluded. The cover of the partner's pension is maintained until the pension becomes effective. So this bill doesn't concern that. For the calculation example, I would also like to refer to the example in the opinion of the Actuarial Society of 28 March 2017. It was found that a two-year delay and a two-year delay resulted in an increase of 2.6% in the claim. An important reason for this was a substantial reduction in interest rates during the period in question. This is about 2012-2015, I say memorized, or 2013-2015. That's when the interest rate went down real bad. That brought that big rash between those two moments of measurement. This also illustrates what I said in the first term, namely that the foundations can change. Again, that can turn out to be both to the advantage and to the disadvantage of the participant, but there is no bias one way or the other. I come to the question about actuarial calculations and the right to reply versus the right to calculate. There are requirements for actuarial calculations. The transferor calculates the actuarial value of the pension he is about to transfer. The receiving exporter shall verify that calculation and that amount. That is a check, because the new performer takes over the participant's pension commitment and so he wants to make sure that it is well funded and is also properly transferred. For participants, it is important that they receive a commitment from the new executor, the actuarial value of which is equal to the commitment they had with their former executor. That point is regulated by law. So that guarantee's in the law. What actuarial value does that include? The question is whether that means anything to the contestant. Is that insightful for the contestant? It is also not directly relevant, as long as the commitment is equivalent and the actuarial value in the transfer is fair, so there is an equal crossing. Finally, DNB oversees all of this and ensures that this happens neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u226	I know the law, and this is indeed the law. In 95% of the times, things are going well. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. The question is, what happens if things go wrong? Trust me, that last chance letter doesn't open everyone. Hardly anyone will think: oh, nice, I'll ask for a letter. You only do this if you see that you had €400 claim at the old pension fund and receive the new €50. Then you wonder if there's been a mistake in the calculation. Only then will you think through and ask for the underlying calculation. If it is said that it has done well according to the law but you are not allowed to ask for the calculation, you will find yourself in a sort of catch-22 situation. That is why I ask you not to send it by default, because that gives letters to the infinite, but to give people the right to control it somehow if they think something is wrong. It concerns claims up to €9,000, so it is not about small amounts. You say that you can ask for an opinion from DNB and that it recalculates it. I'm okay with it all, but the contestant should be able to do a check.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u227	The legal system at the moment is so that it is important for the participant that he gets a commitment from the new performer that the actuarial value is equal to the commitment he had with his old performer. That commitment is governed by the law. This can indeed have consequences, because you will end up with another pension provider, with a different scheme. That's true. There may be differences, but actuarial fairness is regulated by law. The systematics and the calculations behind them are also very complicated. The question is whether they can be made clear to an average participant. Therefore, the law has chosen to regulate the fairness of one exporter to another and to supervise it with DNB. That has been a conscious choice in the Pension Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u228	No, that's not a conscious choice in the Pension Act, it's a conscious choice in the bill before you. There's gonna be a really weird thing going on. When you voluntarily make a transfer of value, you get an offer. That offer says how your pension scheme is converted. Then you can choose: you do it or you don't. In doing so, we move on to a system of mandatory transfer of value. It's gonna be taken care of for you. In the vast majority of cases this will go well. I'm sure of it. But what if it doesn't go well? The law says it's fair. Then you get to the pension fund. The pension fund does not have to send a reply. Then we'll get back to Question Time, Chamber questions and the whole damn thing. There must be a way to check as a participant in the back door that the transfer has been done in a proper way. That's gotta be taken care of. This question stood for President, in case you think: what do you start at 11:00 p.m.? (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u229	In the written reply this answer was indeed given on the system. The individual participant may not recalculate the figures so much, but there are safeguards in the actuarial fairness system for the transfer of one performer to another performer. I'm afraid I can't take a step further at the moment either, because it opens up a whole new discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u230	Finalizing, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u231	It's very simple. If you do a voluntary transfer of value, you have the right to see a calculation. This is a mandatory transfer of value, so there is just the system between those pension funds that they can show that. As I have said, this will only be used in extreme need. I think very few people will. But if there is a conflict and a mistake is made, that must be corrected, and that can only be done if there is openness about that calculation. The reason I'm doing this is that I've been working for two years now with the Secretary of State for Pension Affairs and now with the Minister, to open up the recovery plans. In formal terms, the Secretary of State says: yes, it will have to be. And a number of pension funds say: we don't do that. Yeah, there you are as a contestant. So this is something you should be able to control as a participant. For all I care, the Minister will come back to this in the letter. If a mistake has been made or it is shown that a mistake has been made, what rights does the participant have? That is a rather essential point in this matter. So I am not talking about the €2 crumb pensions. It's really about the other pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u232	I understand and see the point too. My experience is that there are safeguards in the law, but Mr Omtzigt is persisting. So I'm gonna look at this and take it with me in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u233	Have you already given an opinion on the motion on item No. 16?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u234	I think it would be wise to include that in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u235	I could imagine that. That follows in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u236	Yes. I would like to check it out first, and then I would like to inform Mr Omtzigt nicely. If that is a reason to give Mr Omtzigt full support, I will, of course, also write in the letter that the judgment will be Chamber. If it's different, I'll write it down nicely. That, I believe, is the end of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u237	Are you referring to the amendment to item No. Did Mrs Lodders give a judgment? That amendment deals with the pre-communication provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u238	I think it's a heavy instrument. I say to the Chamber that I will inform her, but I find that too heavy an instrument to regulate each amendment. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u239	You're dissuading the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-12.u240	I would like to thank the Minister and the members of the House of Representatives and all those who contributed to this debate. The vote on the law, the amendments and the motions will take place next Tuesday, 14 November. Before then, the Chamber may expect another letter from this minister. I shall close the sitting on Tuesday, 7 November.
