ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State, as well as colleagues and everyone in the public gallery. Three speakers have signed up, including two maiden speakers. It is now known that maiden speechers cannot be interrupted. This is the last opportunity for you to speak freely here, without interruptions. After every maiden speech, by Mrs Diertens and Mrs Kuik, we will suspend for congratulations. I would be the first to give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. This is a very special moment for me. As a 59-year-old, I switch from corporate social responsibility to working as MP for the D66 group. That is a function with a special responsibility, for which I want to make a full commitment. My personal motivation, as well as my party's, is to counter the dichotomy that manifests itself in our society. Working for a society where people get equal opportunities is my goal. As the daughter of a truck driver and as a so-called stacker, I know that education is the key to developing you, regardless of your origins. My parents had to ask the municipality for a loan, so that I could go to my coveted CIOS (Central Institute of Training Sport Leaders), a sports training course, and into rooms. I then worked mainly in sport, but also in health care and education. Besides, I've been studying forever. So I am actually a practical example of lifelong learning. I feel like a world citizen. I was born in Groningen and still live there. And, for the diehards, I'm a fan of Bob Dylan. Unfortunately, an inclusive society, in which everyone counts and participates, has not yet been achieved. Tolerance, tolerance and freedom to be who you are are the pillars of a fairer society. I would like to quote the philosopher Jan Vorstenbosch: a just society relativizes the strict so-called honest concept of justice that treats everyone equally and fairly, according to fixed laws, procedures and rules; the relativization is motivated by compassion, compassion with unique individuals in their particular situation or fate. For me, this means a government that inspires, facilitates and, where necessary, regulates. A government that keeps an eye on the specific context for individuals and therefore always overlooks laws and rules. As a gym teacher at school, I learned that the safe methodology from headroll to flip is good for the Sanne Wevers in our world, but was not applicable in my classroom, with children with multiple disabilities. The class was divided by cognitive and not motor skills. At such a time, a creative interpretation of your profession is essential and that previously learned methodology is of little use to you. Professionals need to be given the space to choose and act in a specific situation. Less rules and more trust. It is characteristic of the policy areas that I can count on as my portfolio that an integrated approach is necessary. In addition to prevention, my portfolio includes, of course, sport and exercise, MBO, lifelong learning, ggz and Kingdom relations. People want to grow up and stay healthy. For this, it is necessary to promote a healthy lifestyle, such as exercise, sports, health, healthy eating and preventing chronic stress. Many people are aware of this and are trying to live healthy. Others could use more help with that. Many families, for example in Groningen and the Caribbean Netherlands, live below the poverty line or suffer from chronic stress. Invisible circumstances often lead to apathic behaviour and physical and mental complaints. Young people, in particular, are vulnerable and can fall into thin air when laws are not sufficiently in line with their situation. Professionals and supervisors are sometimes hampered by procedures and rules to be able to help. I would like to use this period of office to address these problems in an integral way, to continue to see society and not to lose sight of practice. I have my age and my practical experience with it. Furthermore, no one is ever too old to learn. I am also very looking forward to my work in the Chamber, starting with this first legal treatment, the law on public health that is before us today. The aim of the present law is to prevent illness and to ensure that children grow up healthy. By means of population research, we can detect diseases, so that they can be treated at an early stage. With this change of law, a new division of labour will be created and some temporary articles will be structurally anchored. My party agrees with the approach taken and has a number of questions about this. The responsibility of the content, direction and coordination of the National vaccination programme remains the responsibility of the government, invested with the RIVM. The call for vaccination, educational material, registration and quality assurance will also continue to be carried out by RIVM. In addition, municipalities are given a formal role. How will the transfer be carried out as from 1 January? For example, I read in the note following the report that regional information meetings will be held this year, if necessary. How is this to be determined? The national vaccination program is working well. The vaccination rate is 95% high. In recent times, however, there have also been critical and incorrect noises about the usefulness of vaccination. These messages sometimes spread quickly to the widest possible audience. How is this handled by RIVM? After all, good functioning falls and stands with the confidence that parents have in the programme. I like to get a reaction. It is well known that in certain religious communities less is vaccinated. For reformatorical parents a separate brochure has been prepared with religious arguments for and against vaccination. There is also a brochure for youth health staff with tips on how they can help reformer parents in this decision-making process. The use of the brochures shall be evaluated. When will this evaluation take place? Are specific brochures for other target groups also being considered? With this law, population research has a structural place in the law. At present it is only the helprik and the prenatal examination in pregnant women. Is it true that other population surveys may be included in the future? What considerations will be made in this regard? With the helper, parents will only be informed if something is wrong. However, I can imagine that people also like to receive confirmation of this, if all is well. I understand that it is currently being examined whether it is possible to inform parents of a favourable outcome. What else does this depend on? Finally, the legislative amendment also monitors the so-called exotic vectors. Several mosquitoes, such as tiger mosquitoes and yellow fever mosquitoes, I'll save you the Latin names found at companies that trade in used tires imported from countries where these mosquitoes live. It appeared that not all companies participating in the covenant complied with the agreements. I understood that a legal basis is desirable, so that the NVWA can enforce and enforce the fight against it. This proposal is aimed at companies importing from high-risk areas, but this weekend a biologist from Wageningen called: the habitat of the tiger mosquito is expanding and the mosquito has already settled permanently in many southern European countries. From there the mosquito could thus lift to the Netherlands, for example via the caravan of a family who was on holiday in southern France, Spain or Italy. How does the Secretary of State see this risk? I'm coming to a closure. As I said, my portfolios require an integrated approach. I do not want to lose sight of the links between my portfolios either, hence one final question as spokesperson for Kingdom relations. The legislation on the prevention of exotic vectors will not apply to the Caribbean part of the Netherlands, because the mosquitoes are already there. Can we still learn from the experience gained in the Caribbean Netherlands in the field of prevention and control? Thank you, masha danki.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I would like to be the first to congratulate you, Mrs Diertens. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. If you would like to stand here in front of the chair, your colleagues can congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Let's get back to the meeting. The second speaker is Mr Ziengs on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Public Health Act in connection with, among other things, the inclusion of an offer by the government of vaccinations and population research and new rules for combating invasive exotic vectors. That's a mouthful. Let me start with the latter. Last year we were shocked by the outbreak of zika in Central and South America in particular and its consequences for public health, especially for pregnant women and the unborn child. Because of globalisation, there was a chance that Zika would spread in the Netherlands. In the list of bad mosquitoes included in the explanatory statement, mention is made of the American shitty mosquito, the Asian forest mosquito, the yellow fever mosquito and the tiger mosquito. Like my colleague, Mr D66, I will not mention the special names attached here. The aim of the present legislative proposal is to give the Minister a new task and competence so that the Minister can take measures to prevent the establishment of these vectors in the Netherlands. Can the Secretary of State indicate when the AMvB in which these vectors are recorded will be ready? What possibilities does the Secretary of State have for taking preventive measures against new vectors that are not included in the AMvB? This cabinet stood and still stands for a nature policy that includes machining. Is it not strange, as I ask the Secretary of State, that on the one hand we are doing an enormous amount of work to combat these mosquitoes and, on the other hand, we are setting up complete areas in such a way that these mosquitoes immediately feel at home and reproduce quickly? My group shares the government's intention to allow the fight against these pests to take place under the responsibility of the Empire. Such health risks cannot be placed on local authorities. Otherwise, it is the proposal relating to the vaccination programme. In this we read that the lot is being organized. Until 2015, the National Vaccination Programme had a legal basis in the General Law Special Disease Costs, the AWBZ. That law has been replaced by the Long-Term Care Act, which, as the name suggests, is intended for long-term care. It is therefore understandable that the final scheme now opts for the Public Health Act. I have a number of critical comments to make. The national vaccination programme is called the "Ríjk vaccination programme" for a reason. The Empire is and will remain responsible for the content, direction and coordination of the vaccination programme and implementation has been invested with RIVM. The Minister determines the contents, the vaccinations and the age of administration, and is advised by the Health Council. As far as I and my group are concerned, this must remain the same. However, in the legislative proposal, the administration of the vaccinations themselves and the additional work become a responsibility of municipalities. My group sees some danger in that. RIVM provides uniform educational material. I read in the explanatory statement that additional target groups can be reached by bringing implementation to local authorities. These are target groups that are not achieved by the traditional RIVM approach. How will local authorities provide these target groups with information? Do they provide an additional explanation based on the existing educational material or will an employee go on the road to provide additional explanations using new material? In other words, do municipalities have the space to change the existing uniform information? How is RIVM's uniform information used in counseling? Can the Secretary of State clarify this? My group believes it is important that the information provided on vaccinations and the vaccination programme is uniform, complete and up-to-date. An AMvB will lay down what is required of municipalities in terms of expertise, information and information. Since I think it is important for the Chamber to be able to give its opinion on this matter, I have tabled an amendment to include a provision on the subject. My group also notes that vaccination rates are high in the Netherlands. In most cases, it is higher than the 95% that the World Health Organization sets as a standard. Voluntary participation in a vaccination programme is a good thing, especially if it achieves these vaccination rates. Yet there is a danger behind these figures. In addition to the well-known group that does not participate in the program from religious backgrounds, there is also a group that for other reasons refrains from vaccination of their children. This is often inspired by fake news and incorrect information via social media etc., for example, that vaccination can lead to diseases and diseases, such as ADHD. The last two years the vaccination rate has fallen, only slightly, but that can still be a sign on the wall. It is therefore a good thing that the vaccination rate is made available per municipality. If we dive below the percentage so that there is a reduction in the level of protection and thus a possible health risk at a particular place, additional measures can be taken, but how can we inform parents that they do not accept this kind of fake news? What information do the jgz organisations give to these groups locally and what can other municipalities learn from this? By placing the implementation with the local authorities and recording data provided to RIVM, we get a better picture of where percentages are going to vary exactly in terms of vaccination rates. Could this have an effect on the willingness of municipalities to house groups of people who have not participated in a vaccination programme, arguing that the existing vaccination rate is too low and that the risk of disease outbreak is very high? I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he sees this. So much for my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	The next speaker was Ms Kuik, on behalf of the CDA. This too is a maiden speech and cannot be interrupted. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. What's going on here almost always gives me fainting moments. I am not talking about my maiden speech, which, of course, brings with it a particularly honourable tension, but about the shot, the injection needles and the inoculations. Nevertheless, I voluntarily participate in population surveys, I am glad that my parents have inoculated me and I am grateful to the State for its protection against serious infectious diseases. You don't do inoculations for fun, you do inoculations for charity. For me and for many people, my own health and that of family and friends is at the top of the priority list. You can do a lot of health preventively yourself, but being sick can also happen to you. Good care is important, but it is also important that everyone with their own flaws should be able to participate in society. I am honored to be able to commit myself to this important portfolio in the near future. With the motto "do not worry but do" I want to get to work. I have the ambition to make politics understandable, close to people and open up. The story about vaccinations and vaccinations will recognise many, but this bill is also about new rules for combating invasive exotic vectors. Yes, invasive exotic vectors; that requires some explanation. I had to google it myself. It is about infectious diseases that are transmitted by insects, such as exotic mosquitoes, for example the tiger mosquito. So this bill is about a small shot, which can have major consequences, both positive and negative. The present proposal ensures that the administration of vaccines, information and related activities are brought under the responsibility of the municipalities. The other part of the law strengthens the ability for the government to act at national level against those invasive exotic mosquitoes. The CDA is largely satisfied with the government's answers to the written questions. There are still a number of questions left, and I would like to ask them here. First of all, I would like to ask the government to clarify the funding of vaccinations in relation to the effort obligation. Municipalities are given the obligation to reach all children who stay in the municipality for a long time. They are therefore also children who are not mentioned in the Municipal Basic Administration, and they will be children who are staying in hospitals or youth institutions in particular. The attached cost study shows that this is a very limited number of children and that it is not possible to make financial arrangements on the basis of the available information. Does it also apply to individual municipalities that this is only a very limited number of children? Or are there municipalities at extra financial risk because, for example, there is a large youth institution within the municipal boundaries? We know from the youth services that this was the case and that there were financial problems in individual municipalities because large groups of children from other municipalities remained within the municipal boundaries for a long time. Can this problem also arise in this legislative proposal? The CDA considers it undesirable that municipalities should focus on this. How will the government prevent this? The government writes on the one hand that it does not foresee problems, but on the other hand that municipalities may make arrangements on this matter. May I conclude from this that the government does foresee that this could cause problems? Does she think it is realistic that the municipalities themselves should agree on this? Does this not produce unnecessary paperwork again, which is what we want less in health care? I have a second question on funding. In certain municipalities, it has been said before that the vaccination rate is relatively low. It is conceivable that municipalities should make more effort to reach people and to persuade them to vaccinate. Has this been taken into account in the allocation of budgets? The party responsible for the adaptation of the vaccination scheme and the tariff setting influences the total expenditure at municipal level without the municipality itself being able to direct it. How is it ensured that the budgets that municipalities receive have been adapted to this? My last question about vaccinations is about the degree of vaccination. The vaccination rate in the Netherlands is generally high. Compliments for that. However, there are some concerns. Is it true, for example, that the current vaccination rate of the flu shot is 50% well below the WHO recommended vaccination rate of 75%? Does the government have an explanation for that? Will it make an effort to increase the vaccination rate? Can the government explain why the opinion of the Health Council on the vaccination against pneumococcal disease in the elderly has been postponed? Why is the advisory process more complex than was previously estimated? When can we expect this vaccination? I'm switching to the exotic mosquitoes. Last year, Caribbean Netherlands experienced an outbreak of the Zika virus. Public sector bodies in the BES islands have been asked to indicate what additional support they need to make the fight against mosquitoes future-proof. What about the plan they are preparing together with the RIVM? Is it conceivable that more RIVM is needed on the islands? Is the government prepared to make that extra effort possible? Finally. We have not stretched a huge wall of horns around the Netherlands to stop the tiger mosquito and friends. This is, as is the case for more subjects, a more complex problem that requires a different solution, but also a great deal of alertness. The tiger mosquito has expanded further to the north in recent years. Is it only a matter of time before we can get diseases like dengue in the Netherlands, or can we stop it? I read some encouraging texts in the explanatory memorandum. The government writes that climate change has not affected the establishment of exotic mosquitoes in southern Europe. According to the government, this is mainly due to the late start of the fight there, which means that the mosquito can no longer be dealt with. Does this mean that the government believes that future climate change does not affect the chances of setting up tiger mosquito in the Netherlands? How does she assess in this light the warning of biologist Arnold van Vliet who warned at the NOS on Monday about the location of the tiger mosquito? He indicates that the increasing imports and the higher temperatures increase the chances that the mosquito survives and settles here permanently. We know that old tires are a breeding ground for insects. We also know that people returning from southern Europe to the Netherlands with their caravans increase the chance of the non-gratas being taken away. How will the government ensure that in ten years' time we will not be written about 'they have started fighting too late'? I had to promise that I would remain myself and not fall into woolly language or mosquito whips. Unfortunately, I have to say that I only partially succeeded in the latter. Better next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you. Congratulations on your maiden speech, Mrs. Kuik. You too can be congratulated by your colleagues. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. At 11:00 we will continue with the first term of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, I would like to congratulate Mrs Diertens and Mrs Kuik on their maiden speech. I found their input on the motivation for an inclusive society and trying to stay yourself inspiring. They create expectations for the future. Mrs. Diertens said she's a Bob Dylan fan. He said, if you know what you're worth deep down and go all the way, don't back down and don't give up, you'll surprise a lot of people. Based on both maiden speeches, I am sure that they will surprise many people in the coming period. I wish them good luck. Today, we are discussing the proposal to amend the Public Health Act, which legally safeguards three important health protection measures: for the National vaccination programme, for population surveys and for invasive exotic vectors. It's gonna take you a while to get used to that last term, but then you've got something. I think we have to note that we have not so much made up new things, but that it gives the successful implementation practice a legal basis and improves on some points, so that the laws and regulations also clarify what citizens can expect from the government. I'll come back to that later. I think that this approach and the successes that the Netherlands has achieved in this area are very much supported and appreciated. I also believe that the National vaccination programme is one of the crown jewels of Dutch public health care because of its size and its effect. The Netherlands is therefore high on the international lists. In 2015, for example, 770,000 children received more than 2 million vaccinations, protecting them against serious infectious diseases such as polio, meningococcal C and various other infections. There are critical sounds, though. I'll come back later on to specific questions about the vaccinations. Depending on vaccination, participation is between 92% and 99%; only for HPV vaccinations it is lower. The starting point of this legislative proposal is that the successful implementation of the National Vaccination Programme will be maintained and citizens will not be affected as much as possible. You have seen that the situation we now have, namely a strong central approach to quality, information and decisions on which vaccinations are or are not being given, is actually maintained, and that decentralised implementation by municipalities, in consultation with their youth health care organisations, is also maintained and legally anchored. It is therefore central to determine which vaccinations are given, so that it remains national uniform. Mr Ziengs referred once again to the advantages of this. The link between the implementation of Youth Health and the setting-up of pricks is also maintained, with which target groups can be reached in a very specific way. In addition, there is the improvement in the quality of information to parents. We'll add that point of improvement. This information will be strengthened so that parents are more aware of their choice to participate in a programme, in accordance with the rules of informed consent. The same applies to the population survey in which certain serious diseases are detected at an early stage. That starts with the helper and the Prenatal Screening Infectious Diseases and Erythrocyte immunisation, the helprik screening and the PSIE. It is also important to act very quickly. Mr Ziesgs said that it was important that this was controlled centrally by RIVM. We want to keep it that way. The proposal therefore does not change the offer and implementation of the screenings. I shall come back later to the general questions that have been asked. Finally, in the case of invasive exotic vectors, it is important that this law facilitates a national approach by NVWA. I think it is very important to have the power to impose measures on businesses, buildings and land where this occurs. It is very important for us to have legal means to regulate this preventively and to be able to seek cooperation in the implementation of the fight, sometimes with a great deal of speed. I now come to the questions asked. The draft law is due to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Some of you have asked whether this is feasible. Is that right? How do you deal with that? For the components related to mosquito control and population surveys, this appears to be feasible. Moreover, the fight against mosquitoes is also highly desirable. Parties such as RIVM and NVWA are sufficiently equipped to start this on 1 January 2018. I would like to look closely at the National vaccination programme, particularly because we want to ensure the cooperation and implementation of municipalities. The contracts between the municipalities and the executive youth health organisations should provide for provisions. We cannot do that in anticipation of this parliamentary debate. This goes in when we're done with this treatment. I want to be very careful in it. In consultation with the VNG, ActiZ, the GGDs and RIVM, we have established that, if the remaining time in 2017 is too short, we need to ensure that this component does not enter into force on 1 January 2018 but a year later. I want to do it very carefully. In fact, I already foresee that this is necessary, because of the care. The provisions relating to the responsibility of municipalities will then enter into force on 1 January 2019. In due course, as usual, it will be regulated by the Act of Accession. Mrs Diertens has asked a number of questions about the provision of information. There is talk of the need for regional meetings, but she wondered how this need was identified. A number of steps have been taken in consultation with the VNG, ActiZ, the GGD and RIVM. Firstly, there is the financial agreement on how much money is actually needed. I'll come back to that later. There is agreement on the necessary budget for proper implementation. A hand-out has been prepared for the municipalities, in which a detailed account is given of the background to the legislative change and the practical issues. The VNG has set up a help desk. A professional directive has been developed for professionals. Then why did we say 'if necessary'? We all do these things. We can all foresee this, both at macro level, the municipalities, and at the level of professionals. There is also a separate help desk. Suppose professionals indicate that they need something extra, for example an additional information meeting, then we will take care of that. The idea is that we do this in consultation with the municipalities and the executive organisations. If they indicate that more information meetings are needed, then we will take care of that. Mrs Diertens and others have asked questions about the degree of vaccination. We can see that this vaccination rate has been stable for years, but there has been a slight decrease of 0.5% over the last two years. It is good to conduct very focused research into the causes, because they are rather diverse. There are also differences per vaccination. The cause may lie in broad societal developments, in a specific organisation or in ideas that one has about vaccines. Mr Ziengs mentioned, not unjustly, that sometimes there is a reaction to fake news. That's also very dangerous. We will expand the RIVM information system. In consultation with users, parents, professionals and interest groups, we will tailor the information to their needs. I would point out that from 1 January 2018 we have more money available for professionals to spend more time on information. As of May of this year, e-learning is also available, which allows all youth health professionals to be trained in the contexts of the National vaccination programme and the composition of the vaccines. In short, I think it is good to remain proud of the high vaccination rate, but also to respond to the decline we are seeing now. Luckily, it's not spectacular yet. We don't want to. We will further strengthen the information and explanation on why you are vaccination and the consequences if you do not. This is also an answer to Mrs Diertens' question as to what happens when more brochures are needed. The specific brochures for reformed people have now been evaluated. The result is that they are valued positively. This is a fair question. If it appears that there is a need for more brochures for other target groups, they will indeed be developed. I expect signals to be picked up by professionals and designed with RIVM. When this need becomes apparent, we will develop these brochures together with the RIVM. Mrs Diertens also asked whether it would be possible to include other population surveys in this bill. It's possible. In the present legislative proposal, preparations have been made for housing population studies into breast cancer, cervical cancer and colon cancer. The funding of these population surveys will then be provided by the law, which will be further developed at a later stage. At that time, the current subsidy scheme will be replaced by the Public Health Act. So we are indeed giving this law a broader legal framework for the financing of population surveys. The question of whether we can also inform on a positive outcome is currently administratively difficult to answer. We are working on it and we hope that at the entry into force of the new ICT support system, which we provide for in 2019, it will also be possible to inform if a positive result is not different from the helprik. Mrs Diertens and other members asked about the tiger mosquito and other mosquitoes with difficult Latin names. In the rest of Europe, and especially in the south, we have seen an expanding population for years, such as the tiger mosquito. It has also been shown that they can track people in vehicles, including caravans, and that in this way mosquitoes undoubtedly end up in the Netherlands. Generally those adult mosquitoes die after arrival because the climatic conditions here are different from those in southern Europe, so the chances of setting up such an individual mosquito are very low. When mosquito genes enter via import, this is different; then they can reach a much more suitable breeding ground, often in larger numbers than a single mosquito that is required in a caravan. This means that a fertilized tiger mosquito can lay eggs in the first rainton and that we must indeed count on them to prevent more. I expect that will happen, but we don't know when. This is also the reason why this law allows us to intervene very quickly, where it is pointed out, whether it is in companies on the basis of supervision or signals. You cannot check all incoming vehicles in a country for mosquitoes, but if they occur you can react very quickly with measures. Perhaps we can learn from the situation in the Caribbean Netherlands. Those mosquitoes are already established there and they are no longer considered invasive exotics. The approach there is much more focused on control and therefore not on eradication, although that would of course be the best. But you have to count on that to fail. RIVM works intensively with local mosquito control in the Caribbean Netherlands. There is an intensive exchange of knowledge and experience, so we can also use all the knowledge and experience that is gained in the Netherlands. Mr Ziegs asked questions about the AMvB, which the Council of State has said you must also describe the fight against mosquitoes. I understand the question in this way: it is nice that the AMvB is there on 1 January 2018 and that you then have a number of exotics in it, but suppose there is a new exotic, what are we going to do? Then it is provided for in the law that we can quickly use that ministerial arrangement to take action. We will. The AMvB should be adjusted no later than six months thereafter. So in such a situation we will do so and use the scheme to take urgent action. Then we make sure that it is covered with an AMvB at the latest six months later. What preventive measures are imposed depends on the vector in question. Each animal will have a different life cycle that needs to be broken. Any type of location where the vector is found will require a specific measure. So that means that we can take specific measures in hand with the ministerial arrangement at that time. Mr Ziengs asked if we are not relaxing the circumstances for the exotics. I think there are two things to say about that. On the one hand, of course, we have a very proactive approach in which we can delay the establishment of exotic mosquitoes that can transmit diseases for as long as possible and thus prevent disease from developing. On the other hand, I would point out that the introduction of mosquitoes in the Netherlands has nothing in itself to do with the further destruction of the environment and the management of nature. Mosquitoes do not live in lakes or wetlands, but in small puddles of still water, close to human buildings. That is also why those small puddles in car tires or in baskets with a certain temperature are promoting. So the engraving of Dutch nature generally does not offer any additional possibilities for the exotic mosquitoes. Mr Ziesgs indicated that the organisation of the RVP (National vaccination programme) was on the move. I can see why he says that, although I would like to nuance it a little bit, because with this bill we are still close to the current practice, namely central implementation of quality checks, information and controls. There must be uniform information. I also very much endorse what Mr Ziengs said on that point: a uniform way of communicating about the National vaccination programme. It is precisely for this reason that responsibility for the development of national uniform educational material remains with RIVM. That material is also used locally. Directories and brochures are made specifically for certain target groups. We'll expand that if we need to. Very important is that in his or her conversation with parents and children, the professional can clearly explain personally the usefulness and necessity of vaccination, the risks and the importance of passing on information needed in that regard. I think I have given sufficient consideration to Mr Zieng's questions on vaccination. In addition to the central educational material already in place and in addition to the conversations already in place by the professionals with the parents and children, it is important that we add that the information provision is improved as it were: more time for professionals to give personal explanations and really fill in the informed consent and, if necessary, come up with additional educational material at the time the professionals indicate that. I shall now turn to Mrs Kuik's questions. This concerns first of all her question about the financing and the commitment to do so. The situation in which children do reside in a municipality but are not registered there is included in the financial investigation. This has shown that there are only very small numbers involved. Mrs Kuik said so many words about this: they all say that, but what happens if this happens specifically in a municipality? I do not think the comparison with youth care is entirely correct because we are talking here about vaccinations for children between 0 and 4 years of age, where this concentration does not occur in this way. So that comparison doesn't work. In close consultation with the VNG, the distribution of financial resources was carried out and then distributed according to the system of Home Affairs in respect of the Municipal Fund under the title Youth. I think all parties are now saying that this is the best division that can be made. In theory, you might be wondering if it's gonna stay that way. That is also why we sit down every year, even with municipalities, to see if there is any reason to have other thoughts about it. In fact, I answered Mrs Kuik's second question: has additional efforts been taken into account in the budget? It's about such small numbers that it's not really on the agenda. It is a bit of an opportunity reason, but if less is vaccinated because people do not want to be vaccinated, there is also more time for the doctor to explain why. I do not therefore think that this should be a budgetary issue. Mrs. Kuik is right about the flu shot. The flu shot is just not in the National Vaccination Program. This shot is therefore not intended to achieve group immunity. The flu shot was not developed for epidemiological reasons. This vaccination is in the interests of the citizen. The citizen can choose whether or not he gets the flu shot. This shot is not aimed at group immunity, while a number of vaccinations in the National Vaccination Programme are aimed at this. The policy with regard to flu shots is: we offer the opportunity if people choose to arm themselves a little more against flu. As you know, there is not one vaccine for the flu, but we have to make a choice every year. The question is what is the best shot in that year with regard to the developing flu virus. Mrs Kuik also asked why it takes so long for the Health Council's opinion on pneumococcal to arrive. She should actually ask the Health Council, because it makes its own decisions. I understand that there are different types of pneumococcal bacteria, so there is not one vaccine that you can say: if I administer it, I have offered a solution. You should consider which vaccine is suitable for which types of pneumococcal. Before you can determine what is the best mix and whether it should be in the National Vaccination Programme, a lot of scientific research is required. You also have to make several considerations. That's why it takes a little longer. I think it's very good that the Health Council is doing this, because before you put anything in the National Vaccination Programme, you have to be sure it'll help. If you fight one bacteria while the other comes up, you're actually putting the horse behind the cart. For this reason, too, the Health Council will be very careful. Mrs Kuik also had a question about the BES islands. Perhaps it would be good to say a little more about that as a result of her question. Three experts from the Dutch municipalities Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba have written a programme. The points are still a bit different per island. There's room for customization. It is a three-year term. There's a budget of 1 million. It is financed through the VWS budget. It is open to participation and cooperation with the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. The latter are independent countries. They're in on their own account. The programme should lead to a sustainable fight against mosquitoes on the islands. The programme shall be submitted to the directors of those islands. We will ensure that there is continued cooperation, also because we can learn from the efforts we are making there. Mrs. Diertens asked for this too. We make sure that we also learn from it in the Netherlands. I've been dealing with the risks of the tiger mosquito for a while. Tiger mosquitoes can hitchhike. We can't fight that. However, we can ensure that we fight these mosquitoes as effectively as possible if they are detected. Perhaps it would be a good idea to respond in advance in my first term to Mr Zieng's amendment to item No. 7. The purpose of this amendment is to add a provision on the front. The AMvB referred to in Article 6b (6) of the bill concerns the qualitative and programmatic requirements for the National vaccination programme to which municipalities must comply. I understand Mr Ziengs' commitment. He says: I want to ensure that quality standards and programming requirements are sufficiently centrally controlled. I can imagine that the Chamber would like to see this in a pending procedure. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	This ends the first term of the government. I'll see if the MPs need a second term. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	I thank the Secretary of State. After the suspension we continue with the afternoon program.
