ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to the Upper House. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u2	Madam President. The members of the CDA Group see the application and acquisition of Dutch nationality as a conscious choice of those involved in order to be a Dutch citizen and to participate in Dutch society. The fact that people who are long-term members of society are legally excluded shows that something is wrong with society. That is what a former CDA minister once said, because society prefers that as few people as possible who live permanently in the Netherlands should keep the status of stranger, because then the reciprocity of human society will not be promoted. Madam President. Newcomers are rightly asked to identify themselves with Dutch society as well as with its standards and values, before they can become a full Dutch citizen. The starting point of the legislation is to establish a greater connection with our country and to ensure a real connection with Dutch society through a longer stay in general and in specific cases through the introduction of a mandatory stay, where there was no such obligation until now. I am now going to extend the five-year deadline to seven years. In line with the comment made by the Council of State, we have sought to justify the extension of this period from five to seven years for obtaining Dutch citizenship. We wanted to hear a more substantive argument than the political motivation given: "We agreed on this in the Rutte II coalition agreement.'. Let me be clear: every term, including the current five-year period, has a very arbitrary character. When I go to the ECN, the European Convention on Nationality, I find that the Netherlands is not an outcast with the proposed seven years. After all, with seven years we remain within the ten-year rule, to which we committed ourselves in that EVN. The summary which we were allowed to receive in the further reply shows that the acquisition of citizenship in many neighbouring countries is beyond seven years. The members of the CDA Group see that Dutch citizenship and certainly the holding or holding of a double nationality are highly politicised. We ask newcomers to identify and integrate with the receiving Dutch society, before one can be a full Dutch citizen. In this sense, as I have just said, we can certainly justify the proposed increase from five to seven years. But there are other problems, such as the stay of the expats outside the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Undoubtedly, at the request of the CDA Group, which was intimately shared by almost all the other groups in this House, the government found that we have great difficulty in proposing that partners of Dutch expats should have a three-year period of physical residence in the Netherlands before applying for naturalisation. At the moment the integration exam for married partners is still sufficient, but now a physical stay in the Netherlands is required of three years. This is justified solely by the fact that a factual link with the Netherlands is necessary to qualify for this naturalisation. What kind of problem does the government intend to solve? Are naturalised married or registered partners not sufficiently integrated, or is the need for equality between married and registered partners, on the one hand, and cohabitants, on the other, the real reason for this tightening up, at the expense of married and registered partnerships? Cohabitants have no equal legal status. I can imagine. An example can make this clear: is it necessary to grant an Australian citizen living with a Dutch citizen in Greece the same degree of right to obtain Dutch citizenship as a couple or registered partners? Marriage and partnership are clearly verifiable, but does this also apply to these cohabitants in Greece? We therefore understand and justify the existing requirement of a three-year residence period for cohabitants, but the CDA Group expressly does not see any justification for adjusting, increasing, the requirement of the term of residence for married and registered partners. After all, the practical problem that you cannot control does not play a role here. Dutch society is served by Dutch people who work for the government and also for our companies abroad. Has the proposed harmonisation at the lowest level given sufficient consideration to the impact of the proposed three-year stay in the Netherlands on the expat and his family and also on the Netherlands? Let me give you an example. Alexander is a successful entrepreneur in Russia and Ukraine. He's lived in Russia with his wife for years. She speaks the Dutch language well, because she studied in Amsterdam. That's where they met. Suppose Alexander had to go back to the Netherlands by circumstances and he asked for family reunification but that he could not claim with his income the income standard we set for family reunification, because he earned that money elsewhere. He must therefore spend at least one and a half years alone in the Netherlands for three months in order to be able to live up to that family standard and thus be entitled to family reunification. Let me give you another example. It concerns the situation of Peter, who is married to a Chinese lady. She moved to Singapore after she married her husband. The children have Dutch nationality and want to study in the Netherlands. Mama wants to come, but she can't because her husband is staying in Singapore for the time being and she can't meet the demand for income on her own. After three months, she has to leave. We do not facilitate partners and children from expats to come to the Netherlands, but we make it more difficult for them than for any group with the conditions we impose on family reunification or stay. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, in all cases I have more to say that if an expat does meet the income requirement for family reunification and the Dutch partner dies within three years, this partner's residence permit will expire. We really do not see why the government is deaf to the interests of Dutch people, companies and organisations that employ them abroad. The government's sticking to the proposals. We are disappointed, because the government also knows that the requirements for family reunification in particular are so difficult that, if the expat can come back to the Netherlands, it is in fact impossible to come back with the partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u3	I am listening to Mrs Oomen and I notice a few things. You went into that statement of reasons for the matter for a moment. You say that you do not want a political motivation but a substantive one. Can you indicate what you think the substantive justification for this bill is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u4	I think I have made it clear that the government is replying to us that this is how it was agreed in the Rutte-II coalition agreement. That agreement, I think, was concluded with your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u5	But my question to you is another one. You were looking for a substantive justification to assess whether this bill is acceptable to you. For that we are in this Chamber: the First Chamber gives an independent assessment. Is the government's substantive motivation convincing for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u6	When you agreed to the coalition agreement, you probably also had a substantive motivation to go from five to seven years. Perhaps you can indicate this in the debate that you are going to have directly with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u7	Through the chairman, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u8	Madam President, perhaps Mrs Nooren will be able to explain in the debate she is about to have with the Secretary of State why she was convinced that the five-year period had to go to seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u9	In my view, Mrs Oomen did not answer my question as to whether it was a convincing reason for her. I have a second question concerning the second part. I don't quite understand it, so I'd like clarity on this point. You say that the bill is less positive for married people compared to the situation as it was. That's right. After that, you said something about people living together, namely that you feel that it is not as well arranged for them as for married people. In your opinion, does that also apply to registered partners who live together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u10	Then I may have slipped my mind. I've equated married and registered partners. I have said that we are already making increased demands on people living together, and that I understand and can justify it because living together in a foreign country is impossible to control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u11	So you mean that married and cohabiting partners with a social agreement should have equal rights and obligations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u12	Yes, I said so. Madam President. What strikes me, moreover, is that the government in its letter 32175 in part No. 63 as a result of an opinion of the Administrative Court on the income requirement, I have just spoken about the income requirements. However, I do not see that commitment in the documents shared by the government with our Chamber. I am referring to the commitment which the government promises to take into account the situation of the expat and to launch an information campaign. I don't see any of that. Madam President. The government's argument is not very convincing that it is only a very small group of people who will experience problems. The requirement that a foreigner to be naturalized should not live in the country of which he or she is a national will mean that it is already not possible for most partners of foreign nationals to apply for Dutch citizenship from abroad. But she doesn't mention numbers. Would it not be all the more reason to be less harsh in the Dutch interest, precisely because it is a small group? The CDA Group in this House and the CDA colleagues across the street have asked whether residence in another EU Member State could be included in the residence requirement. That would, I think, be consistent. Under Directive 2004/38/EC, a family member, spouse or partner of an EU citizen also has a derived right to a longer stay, a stay of more than three months, in order to be able to live and work in another Member State, provided that sufficient resources are available. The government's answer is simply no. I do not see the justification for this. Why, moreover, do I agree with the fact that, in the event of further amendment, the stay in the other parts of the Kingdom was taken into account? So it's technically possible. Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns the public order test for 12- to 16-year-olds. We want a good answer to that. Under the current regime, minors under 16 years of age can obtain Dutch nationality by option or co-naturalisation without applying a public order test.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u13	I would like to ask Mrs Oomen a question about the issue of expats. How does Mrs Oomen, the CDA, view the bill in relation to Article 8 of the ECHR, which deals with family life, as far as expats are concerned? How do they relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u14	The same question could be raised with regard to the EU directive on this too. In any case, it has been tested against the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u15	Do you consider the current draft law on expats to be contrary to Article 8 of the ECHR?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u16	No. I am merely saying that I do not think that the increase that is being made today is a good thing for registered partners and married people, because it will only be possible for them to apply for Dutch citizenship from abroad. We are also talking here about residence permits under EU legislation, which have been reviewed under the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u17	Mrs. Wezel, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u18	So you are actually saying: in the opinion of the CDA, the current legislative proposal corresponds to Article 8 of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u19	What I am saying is this: a number of parts of the legislative proposal that we now have before us, such as the income requirement and so on for family reunification, are also included in European legislation, in the directive that I have just mentioned. That Directive was also assessed under the ECHR. So I see no contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u20	Finally, Mrs Wezel. No? Okay. Go ahead, Mrs. Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the public order test for 12- to 16-year-olds. With the proposed legislative amendment, the test applicable to persons aged 16 years and over will also apply to children aged 12 to 16. The problem-free naturalization of young criminals is considered undesirable. The government's reasons for doing so are based on public policy. But, as we were wondering, in juvenile criminal law, more still than in adult criminal law, there is always a balance between punishment and re-education, between a firm approach and keeping perspective for the young suspect? In juvenile criminal law, too, the best interests of the child are paramount. This is in line with Articles 3 and 40 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Although 12- to 16-year-olds are able to commit horrific acts and appropriate sanctions should also be provided, the CDA Group would like to see again whether and how the group of 12- to 16-year-olds is served by imposing nationality sanctions on top of the criminal penalty. Finally, Mr President. With this input, I have shared with you, on behalf of the CDA Group, the great practical objections we see for part of this legislative amendment. I would also like to draw your attention to the following in the final provisions: further rules may be laid down for the implementation of this law, either under AMvB or under AMvB. What appropriate options and solutions does the government see for resolving our concerns? At the same time, I wonder whether this possibility exists when the law maintains the strict condition of a stay of three years for expatriates living abroad. Madam President, we will listen closely to the answers given by the government to determine our final position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u22	Mrs Oomen, you already want to run away, but please stand still, because there is someone else with a further question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Oomen began her speech by quoting former Minister Hirsch Ballin, who said that there is something wrong with society if there are large groups of foreigners living in society because they are excluded from Dutch citizenship. I got the impression that Mrs. Oomen embraced that thought. The proposal to delay the possibility of gaining access to Dutch citizenship by two years makes it inevitable that those groups of people who live here without citizenship will be larger. Then how do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u24	You're right: that group is getting bigger. But the question is, is five years important? Or does it have to be seven, eight or nine years? The deadline is not set in years, but the group is getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u25	I am glad that Mrs Oomen acknowledges this. In any case, the longer the deadline, the larger the group. Mrs Oomen agreed with Hirsch Ballin that something would be wrong with society. How do you appreciate that? Is there anything wrong with society if it does not allow larger groups of foreigners to exercise their citizenship rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u26	Those large groups of foreigners can get citizenship rights, be they five, seven or eight years old. I also said it's very random. I remember that in the written questions to the government we also asked why it has chosen for seven years and not eight, nine or ten years, which also fits within the limits of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u27	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u28	I note that Mrs Oomen takes it for granted that it may suspend society because larger groups of migrants are excluded from citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u29	I believe that those who drew up the coalition agreement at the time also had an interest in ensuring that people are well established in our society. Being well established will take one person five years, and for the other it will only be achieved after seven or eight years. I can't say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u30	Perhaps Mrs Oomen of the CDA could tell us how she appreciates naturalization in the light of participation in society, which is, of course, what this is all about today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u31	Real participation in society can only be achieved when you are well integrated. We have now set an integration limit of five years. We think you might be settled in by then. But if you have to deepen that, it could be six, seven or even eight years. That border is very random. But I don't know what the underlying thoughts were when you wrote it down in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u32	I'm particularly interested in how the CDA is in the naturalization debate. So let's narrow it down to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u33	I am very curious to hear from Mrs Nooren!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u34	If research now shows that it strengthens integration if you are more naturalized, how would the CDA Group appreciate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u35	I have looked very closely at the state that had been sent along with the government's further response. I found that very enlightening. I thought that with the seven-year deadline we would be among the exceptions, but that is not the case. With seven years, we'll even be on the short side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u36	Finally, Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u37	Maybe I read those states differently. Eleven of the twenty-one countries in the European Union have a period of five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u38	The big ones have a time limit that's longer. The neighbors. Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mrs Oomen, I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The acquisition of Dutch citizenship should not be a formality and should certainly not be taken for granted. The acquisition of Dutch nationality is something special. Anyone who acquires Dutch nationality shall accept Dutch citizenship with the rights and obligations attached thereto. This should not be non-binding and not merely obtaining a Dutch passport as a ticket to the Dutch welfare state. It is only reserved for those who sincerely have the ambition to build the future of our country as a Dutchman, with our Dutch values and standards as a starting point. This bill is a step in that direction. Extending the naturalisation period from five years to seven years makes obtaining Dutch citizenship a little less self-evident. One less, but actually not enough. The Dutch Parliamentary Group of the PVV has proposed that the deadline be extended further, to ten years. Unfortunately, that was not supported by the Chamber. This ten-year period is possible within the international conventions and already in other countries, such as Spain and Italy. By legally working and integrating for ten years into society and acting in accordance with our laws and rules, it is with greater conviction that the acquisition of Dutch citizenship by naturalization can be achieved. Only after 10 years of entitlement to social security. The concept of naturalisation already contains the idea that the acquired position is natural and not artificial. So do not give Dutch nationality to persons for whom this citizenship is merely an artificial concept. In this context, the legislative proposal is based on full participation, which can be achieved, inter alia, through integration courses. The Secretary of State states that a period of two years can be used to put this into practice after five years of integration. For the record, the PVV does not want integration for those asylum migrants who come from safe countries. They must return to that safe country: borders close! The question remains to what extent the full participation envisaged by the Secretary of State will actually be achieved. Recent figures from the CBS show that 22,000 naturalisations took place in 2015. Of these, the two largest groups were Moroccans and Turks. It is precisely for these two countries that the exception to the withdrawal of nationality is invoked, so that, after naturalisation to the Netherlands, there is often a dual nationality. Unfortunately, this also often means that loyalty is not entirely with the Netherlands, but with Morocco or Turkey. The pro-Erdogan demonstrations in Rotterdam last year were indicative of this. The question to the Secretary of State is how he can reconcile full participation with the possibility of dual nationality. I also have a question about enforcement. This state law also applies to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Last week, reports were published that during the election campaign on Aruba Prime Minister Mike Eman made an election promise to provide the Dutchmanship to Arujanen more quickly. Questions were also raised in the House of Representatives, to which Minister Plasterk replied with a reference to this state law. It should not be possible to provide more quickly under this law, but this raises the question of the extent to which enforcement of this law can be guaranteed in the Caribbean Netherlands, if this is already the attitude of the government there. Can the Secretary of State elaborate on this? Finally. The PVV sees the bill as a step in the right direction, but as advocated by our group in the House of Representatives, we would have preferred to see more decisive measures. Nevertheless, this is a second best solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u41	Thank you very much, Mr Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u42	Madam President. The Dutch passport: for most people in this country this document is a lottery ticket. This passport shows the nationality of a country that scores high on many international rankings, such as social and economic development, freedom and life expectancy. A document enabling the holder to travel visa-free to 155 countries in the world. It is natural for the D66 Group that newcomers in the Netherlands who want to obtain this passport through naturalisation must meet clear conditions, whether they are EU citizens, migrants, refugees or partners of a Dutchman. We can expect all newcomers to show that they are entitled to Dutch nationality, as soon as they have learned the Dutch language, and they meet and have been tested for the integration requirements. The question is within what period that can reasonably be expected of newcomers. At the same time, my group believes that we in this country should strive for a sustainable and harmonious society. Something we achieve sooner by inclusive thinking and acting than by shutting people out. That is why my group shares the concerns of the General Court of Auditors about integration policy after 2013: the way in which newcomers are given the opportunity to participate and become equal citizens falls short. I'll come back to this later. Today we are discussing the amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap and look at three important changes: 1. the naturalisation period extended from five years to seven years; 2. the introduction of a three-year period of admission and main residence for the non-Dutch husband or wife or registered partner of a Dutchman who wishes to be naturalized; 3. the application of a public order test in the case of naturalisation of twelve to sixteen-year-olds. According to the written answers of the State Secretary, the aim of this bill is to "promote a real and lasting relationship with the Kingdom before becoming a Dutch citizen." The underlying idea is, according to the explanatory statement, that a longer stay in the Netherlands prior to naturalisation is a guarantee for better integration in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State writes in his written response to the questions of the D66 Group that "on the basis of the Final Report on Integration and Participation, it can be concluded that the factor of time has a positive effect on the participation of foreigners" and that the deadline should therefore be increased by two years. According to the Secretary of State, there is a better chance at seven years of "that the person concerned better understands Dutch, understands Dutch and Dutch society and has actually found his way into that society." In the explanatory statement, as well as in the written replies, the State Secretary states that each naturalisation period has "a somewhat arbitrary character" and that "there is a feeling that a seven-year period is more appropriate to the idea that a more substantial period of stay and admission should precede the granting of Dutch citizenship." The D66 Group wonders whether the current thresholds for naturalisation are not already high enough. My group asks the Secretary of State how he looks at the concerns of the VNG, who considers it undesirable that a larger group of non-Dutch people should no longer be able to participate fully in our society for two years. My group would also like to know from the Secretary of State why he has ignored the objections of the Council of State, the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Association of Dutch Municipalities about the insufficient justification for this proposed change in time. Would the Secretary of State like to explain exactly what could go better in those extra two years? Will the chance of a job, the better management of Dutch and the better understanding of Dutch society really increase? And if there is a feeling that people are not sufficiently integrated after five years, should the Secretary of State not even look again at the major concerns that have already been mentioned about the integration pathways in this country? The poor organisation of integration pathways seems paradoxically to justify an extension of the naturalisation period from five to seven years. Does the Secretary of State also see this link between integration and extension of the naturalisation period? The other way around: if there were a better system of integration, would it be necessary to extend it from five to seven years? My group would like to hear from the Secretary of State what role the Dutch government could play better at national and local level if newcomers found it difficult to integrate because of their age, gender, socio-economic position, cultural and religious background, educational level and possible war traumas. Is it not important to look again at the relationship between integration pathways and successful integration in the context of this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u43	I listen with interest and pleasure to the contribution of D66. Mrs Stienen indicates that it is possible in a failing integration or integration process. The Court of Auditors has pointed out that financial responsibility is now being transferred entirely to the migrant. The government has actually withdrawn and leaves it to the market to organise integration education. That would be one of the reasons why things are not going well. How does D66 view the way in which integration education is now organised? Would D66 like to see greater responsibility for the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u44	Yes. We would particularly like to see greater responsibility at local level. The integration routes are privately tendered at municipal level. You can see that a lot of things go wrong there. We will also pay a great deal of attention to this in the municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u45	But at the heart of the problem, which is identified by many organisations, is that migrants now need to take out a loan of up to €6,000 in order to take part in a course. Do you want to make changes to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u46	As I said in my speech, we share these concerns of the General Court and we ask ourselves whether this can be done better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u47	Then we look forward to D66's plans for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u48	"..., Chairman." You too, Mrs Stienen: speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u49	Thank you for reminding me, Mr President. In short, in the State Secretary's scenario, naturalisation and the accompanying Dutch passport appear to be a final piece of successful integration. But couldn't it also be the other way around? Is the Netherlands not an important means of strengthening the newcomer's legal position and thereby promoting integration? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Then there is the comparison with other European countries. In the reply of 22 December 2016, the State Secretary states that the seven-year period is not unusual in the rest of Europe. It lists countries such as Greece, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which have these seven-year periods, Germany and Estonia, with an eight-year period, and Spain and Lithuania, which have a ten-year period. Indeed, all within the ten-year period in force under the European Convention on Nationality. My group has asked the Secretary of State to look into this further at the European Migration Network. This study shows that France, which is also a large country, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Finland, is maintaining the five-year period and that this period is also possible in the Czech Republic, contrary to what the Secretary of State suggests. The Belgian situation is striking in this European research. There is a shorter period of five years for newcomers who meet very clear conditions of residence, language management and work history, and ten years for newcomers who need more time to do so. My group is therefore curious whether the Secretary of State has considered thinking of different deadlines, i.e. a short track and a long track procedure, as in Belgium? If so, what was the reason for not deciding to do so? Mr President, I turn to the subject of refugees. Both Article 34 of the UN Refugee Convention and Article 6 (4) (g) of the European Convention on Nationality state that the naturalisation of recognised refugees should be accelerated and facilitated. For many refugees, postponing naturalisation by two years means a major obstacle to the possibility of travelling and working abroad, discrimination in applications, no voting rights in provincial, national and European elections and a barrier to the conclusion of mortgages and contracts. Many of them no longer have protection of their country of origin and have no effective nationality. As an Iraqi, you can only visit 26 countries without a visa as a Dutchman, as said, 155. The Secretary of State states that the government does indeed facilitate refugees through the lower cost of the fee for a naturalization application and the waiver of the loan for a citizenship diploma. The State Secretary also mentions the fact that a refugee does not incur any costs in obtaining foreign identity and nationality certificates because asylum beneficiaries do not have to submit these documents in a naturalisation procedure. Doesn't the Secretary of State see this as a rather harsh interpretation of our international obligations? And why does the Secretary of State not choose a shorter period for refugees, such as the three-year period applicable to stateless persons? Why can't refugees be naturalised if they get a permanent residence permit after five years? And what about a refugee and migrant who has lived in an EU country for five years as a status holder? Should this person then wait another seven years at the location in the Netherlands before a request for naturalisation can be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u50	I was thinking about an earlier question from Mrs Stienen to the Secretary of State. She asked whether naturalisation should not also be seen as an instrument for better participation, so I translate her words freely. I don't know if I'm quoting her correctly, but that's pretty much what it came down to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u51	For better integration, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u52	Now that I hear you talk about refugees, I get the idea that you actually say: naturalization should be done much sooner, because then you have much more beneficial effects on participation, integration and so on. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u53	Yes. That was the case until the 1980s, but we clearly saw a policy change in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u54	Clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u55	Mr President, I now come to non-Dutch partners of Dutch people living abroad. In the written consultation, the D66 Group asked questions about the consequences of this bill for the one million Dutch people who live and work abroad, many of whom have a non-Dutch partner who would like to become Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u56	I hear Mrs Stienen of D66 making a number of comments on the subject: it was until the 1980s and it was actually better then. But do you not see with us that integration over the past 30 or 40 years has completely failed because of this mass immigration and that we are therefore in multicultural chaos? Is that the successful integration D66 has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u57	Madam President, I would like to answer this for three hours, but I think that Mr Van Hattem and I, together with the PVV and D66, will never find that out in our interpretation of what has happened over the last 20 years. We in D66 believe that integration will benefit from a good integration process that will enable people to become full citizens as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u58	Is the Dutch community not the final part of a complete integration process, rather than what you are saying now? You want to give Dutch nationality and a Dutch passport on the front. You yourself said at the beginning that this would give a visa to 155 countries and that all kinds of rights could be granted to them. Shouldn't that just be the closing piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u59	I am very curious myself about Dr Tamar de Waal's recent PhD research. I haven't been able to read the PhD research myself, but in the publicity she says that her research has shown that it is precisely the Dutch community that helps newcomers, refugees, to integrate better. For us as D66 it is not a closing piece, but a means to better Dutchness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u60	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u61	You can refer to an investigation, but the practice, the society, the street looks very different. There we see the results of 30, 40 years of failed integration, where passports have been issued for years with a much shorter deadline than is currently proposed in this law. I do not think this D66 plan is going to make a positive contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u62	I'll take this for notification. I think I have already said that we are clearly different political views on this. Let me start again with the piece on the non-Dutch partners. In the written consultation, the D66 Group asked questions about the consequences of this bill for the 1 million Dutch people who live and work abroad, many of whom have a non-Dutch partner who would like to become Dutch. In his response, the Secretary of State states that the government does not see that the proposal will affect the making and letting the Dutch partner. I ask the Secretary of State whether this is right, given the far-reaching consequences this bill will have on family life and career if Dutch people have to interrupt their working lives in order to live in the Netherlands for three years so that their partner there can start the naturalization process. We reach stories that all have a similar pattern as in this example. We happen to have a working woman as an example: a Dutch woman working for a large international farm in Russia. She lives with her non-European husband in Moscow. To keep unity in the family, her husband wants to become Dutch. In the old situation, it can be done from Moscow. In the new situation she will have to give up her job if she wants to live with her husband, because it is necessary for naturalization that he stays in the Netherlands for three years. Does the Secretary of State still believe that the proposal will not affect the performance of the Dutch partner? As a policy legitimacy for the introduction of a period of admission and main residence for the non-Dutch husband, wife or registered partner of a Dutchman, the Secretary of State states that it leads to a far-reaching imbalance in naturalization conditions, when at the same time can be naturalized by persons who are not at all part of Dutch society or a society of one of the other countries of the Kingdom. The fact that the partners of Dutch expats live together with a Dutchman does not give them access to Dutch society for this State Secretary. The D66 Group does not see this supposed imbalance as an argument for a legislative change. On the contrary, my group asks the Secretary of State how he assesses the adverse effects of the change in law on the family life and career of those Dutch people with non-Dutch partners abroad. Especially for Dutch people who are not broadcast by the Dutch government or a Dutch company but work for a foreign employer or are self-employed, the three-year resource requirement is often a stumbling block. Can the Secretary of State inform this Chamber about the information given to the House of Representatives on 23 February on the possibilities for tailor-made work for Dutch expats around this demand for income? Our group also wonders why the Secretary of State does not create an opportunity to save years in the Netherlands over a longer period of time. Non-Dutch partners of the Dutch don't necessarily have to live in the Netherlands three years in a row before they can apply for naturalisation, but for example always a period of six months or one year in a row over a period of five years. Finally, my group has a question about the public order test for 12- to 16-year-old foreigners who are suspected of a serious crime and want to be eligible for naturalization to Dutch. The D66 Group believes that 12- to 16-year-old foreigners also have a proven innocence in the Netherlands to the contrary. Isn't refusing naturalization at the time there's no conviction at all contrary to this? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Madam President, my group is looking forward to the reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u63	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group considers it important that all people who are in our country feel equal and connected. Laws and regulations should encourage and facilitate the inclusion, participation and participation of all, and the strengthening of security in everyone's existence. The same applies with regard to the PvdA also to people who live in our country and are not born in our country. For them, obtaining Dutch citizenship is the tangible proof that you really belong to it, whether you are a foreign partner of a Dutchman, a child of foreign origin, a migrant worker or a refugee. And not least: getting the right to vote as a Dutchman gives migrants the feeling that they are truly equal residents of our beautiful country. We are talking today about a legislative proposal, which deals in particular with extending the general deadline for granting Dutch citizenship from five to seven years and making additional demands on Dutch partners and children between 12 and 16. We thank the government for the answers given to the written questions to this bill. Unfortunately, these answers have not yet convinced my group of the need and added value of this legislative proposal. The answers also raise new questions. That is the beauty of the work in the First Chamber, I would like to say to Mrs Oomen through the chairman. We are dealing here with our own consideration of a legislative proposal. The First Chamber is not now involved in government agreements at all. That's across the street, we say here. As far as we are concerned, the crucial question for this debate is what will improve if the requirements for granting Dutch citizenship are tightened. In their response to the legislative proposal, the Council of State and others have also indicated the need for a supporting and convincing motivation, but in this case it is lacking. In its reply, the Government states that the purpose of extending the naturalisation period is not to solve existing problems of integration. The government is concerned that the extension of the naturalisation period "is entitled to the idea that there should be a substantial period of stay and admission prior to the granting of Dutch citizenship." The government considers that the extension of the naturalisation period will lead to better integration of foreigners. This is based on the assumption that for people with a residence permit between five and seven years of age, integration will develop very positively. The PvdA Group asks the State Secretary on which this position is based. It is striking that in several places the government indicates that every naturalisation period, including the current one of five years, is somewhat arbitrary, as my colleagues have pointed out. How did the government decide that a seven-year period would be a better one, I ask the Secretary of State. Where the government does support the added value of extending the naturalisation period with research, it is highly questionable whether it is justified to draw conclusions from that study. For example, in response to the opinion of the Council of State and in the further reply, the final report of the 2013 Regional Integration and Participation Plan is cited to underpin the positive impact of the time factor on integration and participation. This research is about the added value of participating in language and integration courses in finding a connection with Dutch society. It's not about a study of naturalisation times. As regards the factor of time, the conclusion in this study does not go beyond the observation that in the first four years after arrival in the Netherlands citizens participate more often when they have successfully completed their integration course. The bill is about extending the naturalisation period from five to seven years. That's not what this investigation is about. My group is surprised that the government has not allowed its own investigation to justify the need to extend the naturalisation period. Can the Secretary of State state state why they haven't chosen this? In addition, it is remarkable that the Government sets out a more precise objective of the legislative proposal in the further reply to page 2. It states that the legislative proposal aims more than at present to ensure that those eligible for naturalisation are integrated and fully participate in society. Can the Secretary of State explain what he means by "full participation in society" and how to guarantee this with this bill? What is the government's commitment to effectively promoting integration and participation? Finally, does the government intend to monitor the impact of the legislative proposal on the integration and participation of newcomers? If not, how does the Secretary of State intend to assess whether the legislative proposal achieves what it aims to do: full participation of newcomers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u65	I would like to put a question to Mrs Nooren. I read in the March report that the PvdA Group states that to some extent the deadlines are arbitrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u66	I'm just looking for a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u67	I read that in the report...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u68	It was asking. The question mark was in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u69	The deadlines of naturalization are arbitrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u70	Now you're saying something else. You have reached a different conclusion. It has to do with time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u71	No. Mrs Oomen finds the same thing I do. Time limits of naturalization are arbitrary. Maybe it's good to explain that. The PvdA Group's theorem is that if you change anything in existing laws and regulations, something needs to get better. I'm looking for what's getting better with this bill. Do you have another question, Mrs. Oomen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u72	That's what I'm about, Mrs. Nooren. Did you have another question, Mrs. Oomen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u73	Yes, I have one more question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u74	Is that another question or is it a follow-up to the previous one, Mrs Oomen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u75	It is a question of the answers. I read here that, in your opinion, the arbitrary nature of this qualification also applies to the extension of the five to seven-year period, which you are now saying we should not do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u76	The question was, is that right? It was in the dark for a while, but it's here now. That's right, it was Mrs. Oomen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u77	It is true that the naturalization period has an arbitrary character. It is true that extending the deadline to seven years is also arbitrary. But the search in the debate that the PvdA Group likes to conduct with the Secretary of State is: if you then amend a law, what will be better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u78	That was a question, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u79	Yes. Question mark. Mr. Chairman. My group takes a different view of the importance of naturalisation for the integration and participation of newcomers than the government. We regard naturalisation as an important tool for integration. We feel supported by various studies, including OECD studies on Germany, Denmark and Sweden, which show that there is a consistent positive impact of naturalisation on the employment rate and income of migrants. An important explanation for this is that naturalisation encourages citizens and immigrants to learn the language. Swiss research shows that naturalisation is a catalyst for improving the social integration process. Dutch research has also been done to show that naturalisation increases the chances of a paid job. Two professors and a PhD student, Ms Stienen, already referred there to "Utrecht University" and CBS concluded in several articles that migrants who naturalize generally have a higher risk of paid employment than non-naturalised migrants. This opportunity increases when migrants naturalise in the fourth year. Afterwards, the effect of naturalisation on the risk of work decreases. Authors conclude that extending the naturalisation period from five to seven years does not contribute to integration in terms of participation in the labour market. Does the Secretary of State share my group's view that having a job is an important form of participation and that foreigners who have education or work integrate faster and better than migrants who are deprived of it? And if it turns out that not having a Dutch passport for employers raises the threshold for hiring people, doesn't the bill we're discussing today backfire on the integration and participation of newcomers? Mr. Chairman. If the government is really concerned with promoting the integration of newcomers, isn't it much more effective to put a lot of energy into this integration? The PvdA Group considers it important that migrants learn different ways in which values such as tolerance, freedom, equality and human rights are implemented in our country. They will thus have the opportunity to make an active contribution to the further dissemination of these values in our society. If you want to live together, communicating with each other is crucial. It appears important that refugees, but also other newcomers, learn Dutch as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the commitment and will to join newcomers is often not enough. The fear of the unknown makes us think that too many people are reserved or negative towards migrants. When people meet, know each other's stories, there is understanding, connection and therefore real social participation and integration and thus a connected society. In the debate we held in this Chamber before the summer on the declaration of participation, we felt that more could and should be done to integrate newcomers into society. There is a need for strong impetus from the government and the business community. When municipalities and employers join forces, newcomers find it easier to get a job, as is already apparent in practice. In terms of job creation, economic growth and declining unemployment may provide opportunities for newcomers. Municipalities like Zeist show that it works when employers actually join forces with job vacancies and municipalities. What role does the Secretary of State see for the government to promote the commitment of employers and municipalities, as well as the government, to paid employment for newcomers? Mr. Chairman. There are two other points on which my group would like to ask questions. As a PvdA Group, we would like to draw particular attention to providing a safe home for refugees. For this group of people, a specific approach is justified, my group believes. They have fled their country of origin and can therefore no longer derive rights from their original nationality. Article 15 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights sets the record straight: everyone has the right to a nationality. Mrs Oomen has already mentioned Hirsch Ballin's address to this important standard. He says you should see the right to nationality as a human right. My group wholeheartedly supports this view. Naturalisation is linked to civil rights, such as voting rights and public service. Refugees from one family often live across several countries. As long as the refugees are not naturalized, they will not be able to visit their families. It is therefore not for nothing that international law, as in the UN Refugee Convention and Article 6 of the European Convention on Nationality, obliges the host states to give refugee status as soon as possible. Is it right that in this bill refugees should be treated as other foreigners? In other words, is the proposed extension of the naturalisation period not contrary to the provision of the Refugee Convention? We look forward to receiving the answer from the Secretary of State on this point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, we have a specific question about when people can submit their naturalization request. In the past, people could do this a year before the naturalisation period. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has been informed that the requests are only being dealt with for five years and that they usually take a year. This means that the actual naturalisation can only take place after six years and if this bill is passed, it will be after eight years of residence in the Netherlands. Is this signal correct and, if so, why is it chosen? And if this bill is passed, can people submit their applications a year before the naturalisation period, so after six years? And does this not underline our point of distinguishing between naturalisation of recognised refugees and other foreigners? I'll come to a conclusion. The government considers that extending the naturalisation period from five to seven years has added value. My group is not yet convinced of this. The PvdA Group believes that other measures, such as the deployment of newcomers to work, are important and lead to integration and participation rather than the extension of the naturalisation period. In fact, my group is concerned that extending the naturalisation period may hinder the participation of newcomers. Why would you want to impose obstacles for people who have often lived in our country for years, behave like everyone else and want to be fully with us by naturalizing, is the key question we ask the Secretary of State. Isn't the happy, proud reaction of someone who gets his first Dutch passport from the mayor after naturalization not the tangible proof that naturalization makes it possible for a newcomer to really feel like one of us? We seriously wonder if the Secretary of State can convince us that the bill does what it is intended to do: to ensure that the person eligible for naturalisation is integrated in the Netherlands and participates fully in society. We're looking forward to the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u80	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u81	Mr. Chairman. The proposal of the Dutch National Law today extends the period during which a person who has a residence permit and lives in the Kingdom of the Netherlands can apply for the Dutch citizenship of five years. The aim of the legislative proposal would be to ensure that those who wish to qualify for Dutch citizenship are more integrated into the Kingdom of the Netherlands and more fully participate in society at the time of the application for naturalisation. The government wants to achieve this by increasing the naturalisation period from five years to seven years. In short, this means waiting two years longer for these people. The SP Group can follow the government's reasoning that the longer someone stays in the Netherlands, the stronger he or she can be integrated in the Netherlands and the greater the chance that someone participates fully in Dutch society. This is also important for the SP Group, and this is also shared by those involved. However, the SP Group cannot follow the government's reasoning as to why the naturalisation period should be extended by two years. After all, even without an extension of the naturalisation period, someone will integrate more strongly into the Netherlands and participate more fully in Dutch society as they stay longer in the Netherlands. The extension of the naturalisation period is not necessary for this purpose. Almost apologizing, the Secretary of State writes in the reply to this Chamber: "It is mainly a value judgment that does not include hard data such as figures and statistics. The choice for a given period is to some extent arbitrary." In the opinion of the SP Group, there are no arguments supporting the usefulness and necessity of extending the naturalisation period. The Raad van State, the Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten and the Advisory Committee on Foreign Affairs have made themselves critical of this proposal of state law for a reason. For example, the Advisory Section of the Council of State writes: "Also the consideration that the deadlines should ensure that Dutch citizenship can be obtained if it can reasonably be assumed that there has been sufficient time to integrate into Dutch society or a society of one of the other countries of the Kingdom is not a justification but merely a basis for setting a time limit. It is therefore not certain that the current five years do not meet this principle." For example, the VNG considers the current thresholds for naturalisation to be high enough. An increase in the group of non-Dutch people who cannot fully participate in society is considered undesirable. This is also confirmed by RefugeeWork The Netherlands. There's even a counter-argument against the bill. Studies carried out by the OECD and Erasmus University show that naturalisation in itself is precisely what makes it possible for migrants to integrate more quickly. The study by Bakker cum suis of Erasmus University on refugees in the Netherlands shows that rapid naturalisation is of great importance for the chances of refugees in the labour market. Why not shorten the naturalisation period or link the naturalisation period to measurable results achieved? Then you give the people involved a purpose as well. A bonus policy should appeal to the Secretary of State, as a VVD, shouldn't it? I'd like the Secretary of State's response. The CBS, not the first institute whose statements are easily questioned, shows in the report "Perspective on Dutch citizenship: the effect of the speed of naturalisation" of February 2017 that the positive effect of naturalization decreases as migrants naturalise at a later stage of their stay. The analyses suggest that an extension of the naturalisation period will result in a reduction in the economic integration of migrants by eroding the added value of naturalisation. How is this compatible with the other agreement in the government agreement, namely that rapid integration is being promoted? I'd like the Secretary of State's response. In fact, it could even be argued that extending the naturalisation period by two years would increase the burden of municipalities and government and result in a loss of tax revenue for the government. After all, faster participation in the labour market has positive effects on integration and participation and results in an annual cost reduction; tax revenues that this bill misses. In addition, extending the naturalisation period has a negative impact on employment rates and thus there is an increased chance of being permanently dependent on government support and on a negative impact on integration and participation. I'd like the Secretary of State's response. The SP Group would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether the social effects of a reduction and an extension of the naturalisation period have been calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. If so, would the Secretary of State be able to provide this information to this Chamber? And if not, would the Secretary of State still like the Central Planning Office to carry out this transfer? I'd like the Secretary of State's response. Mr. Chairman. The SP Group is deeply concerned about the quality of the proposal of the state law under discussion. After all, it is up to the Supreme Court to review legislation on this matter. There are no sound arguments to support the usefulness and necessity of the law, other than political ones. The proposal of state law is based on inadequate assumptions and not on available scientific evidence. This conclusion is reinforced by the results of the integration pathways in the Netherlands, which show that the integration gap has been running since the privatisation in 2013. I'd like the Secretary of State's response. In the debate with the House of Representatives, the Secretary of State stated that the present proposal of law is not a scientific but a political choice, which fits within the current tense. What kind of time spirit does the Secretary of State mean? In the opinion of the SP Group, the Advisory Section of the Council of State is right to state that the proposal of state law should be justified, especially since this proposal of state law has an impact on the lives of those concerned and is likely to result in an increase in the burden of municipalities and government and in the loss of tax revenue for the government. I'd like the Secretary of State's response. Those concerned are already facing difficulties in finding a job and applying for a mortgage, insurance, loans and telephone subscriptions, because they are not yet naturalised. This problem does not seem to be getting any smaller with this law. What does the Secretary of State do to remove these thresholds for them? I'd like the Secretary of State's response. In addition to practical problems, the emotional aspect also plays a role. Involved people get the signal that they don't really belong to them for many years. Extending the naturalization period is another signal. I wonder how the Secretary of State sees this. Mr. Chairman. Applying for the Dutch citizenship is a choice of the person concerned for a sustainable stay in the Netherlands. Not everyone makes this choice, on their own account. Many refugees see a stay as temporary and want it when it can go back home. Many migrant workers want to make a living here for a while without becoming Dutch. Anyone who chooses naturalization, for whatever reason, deserves help, no additional obstacles. Choosing the Dutchmanship creates clarity for everyone and creates sustainable equal civil rights. This is important for a society of solidarity. The preliminary position of the SP Group may be clear, but of course we are always interested in the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State. We look forward to the Secretary of State's response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u82	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u83	Mr. Chairman. In explaining the various parts of the bill we are discussing, the government places a great deal of emphasis on the connection, the connection with the Netherlands of someone who wants to benefit from naturalisation. In order to become a Dutch citizen, someone must have been legally resident for seven years and not five years. The extra two years will improve the connection. And in order to become a Dutchman, a foreigner who is married or associated with a Dutchman must live in the Netherlands for three years instead of just being married or living in partnership for three years. First of all, "nationality" and "citizenship" are used as synonyms in all documents and discussions. They are, I think, not without it and not always. Nationality is first and foremost the feeling of being part of a nation, and citizenship is a formal and legal concept that deals with rights and obligations. Those concepts do not always coincide. A Catalan has Spanish citizenship, but it is clear that a lot of Catalans feel part of the Catalan and not part of the Spanish nation. Within our kingdom there are probably entire populations who are happy with Dutch citizenship, but who do not feel like a Dutchman, not a part of the Dutch nation formed here in Europe. This does not mean, of course, that the possession of citizenship is not the same as the feeling of belonging to the Dutch nation, but is the legal expression for many people, and for others at least the expression of the relationship with the Dutch State. It is valuable, if it is not already emotional then at least because of the rights it provides. The legislation must therefore include the two elements of citizenship, the emotional relationship felt in it and the business-legal relationship. I believe that this also means that the preference in our legislation for arrangements where people can not have more than one citizenship has gone wild. A person can on good grounds choose to participate fully in Canada as a Canadian citizen, but at the same time remain connected with the Netherlands, emotionally and also legally. Similarly, a person can of course choose to participate fully in the Netherlands as a Dutch citizen, but also emotionally and also to remain legally connected with Turkey, for example. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm getting to the bill. I have a feeling that the emphasis the government places on what it calls the connection with the Netherlands, neither the emotional connection nor the value of the legal rights, the protection, is meant. The connection that the government is talking about is about being able to function in Dutch society, being sufficiently adapted, in fact the question of whether we can use someone in our society well. Of course, that is not without importance. It is even very important. But it is not the only thing that matters. For those who come to live here, in a well-paid job or as a refugee, the need to be able to work here naturally applies, but it is difficult, according to the government itself, to make it clear that this has been done to a sufficient extent after five or seven years. For the refugee in any case, first of all, there is a major influence on whether the integration process is properly regulated. Everything points to the fact that this is not the case at all and that the government must ask itself whether there should not be a whole lot of different arrangements there. But in addition, especially for the refugee, the acquisition of possession of Dutch citizenship that, at last, can give real security, probably has a strong emotional charge that can also stimulate it. These are considerations which cast doubt on whether extending the waiting period to seven years is such a good idea, and also whether this is meant by the regulation in Article 34 of the Refugee Convention, which aims at facilitating refugees as effectively as possible. Moreover, would it not be important to standardise these deadlines within the EU, as well as the time limits for right of residence? And then the other point. According to the bill, the husband or registered partner of a Dutchman must live in the Netherlands for three years before he or she can have the Dutch citizenship. This will not be easy to achieve in many cases, but it is not such a strange idea that men and women want the same citizenship to fall back on together, possibly with their children. Even if there is no strong emotional connection with the Netherlands and there is no evidence of being able to function well in Dutch society, as the government so badly wants, the desire to create a common basis as a family is quite understandable. And so it is not very understandable if the government does not consider three years of marriage or partnership sufficient to accept someone not only in family law, but also in public law as a member of the Dutch partner. Finally. That the bill extends the deadline for the automatic loss of Dutch citizenship by five years, rather than abolishing that automaticism, I am not very happy with that, given the far-reachingness of that automation. Mr President, you will understand, three points that do not make me enthusiastic about the present legislative proposal, but I will, of course, be happy to hear the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State in defence of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One of the intentions in the Bruges coalition agreement was to extend the naturalization period from five to seven years. I have read a lot in the explanations of this bill over the last few days and in everything that has been exchanged, but frankly I have not been able to reconstruct a more profound reason for submitting this bill. It is conceivable that these weeks will be the injury time of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. It is therefore a record cabinet in terms of the length of government, which is worth a compliment, but I must also congratulate today on the work ethic with which the coalition agreement has so far been implemented. Well, that's pretty good, too. However, the compliment does not apply to the content of the bill. I'm sorry. The Christian Union Group shares the government's view that acquiring Dutch citizenship is meaningful. The rights and obligations arising therefrom stand or fall with good integration. It can be expected that the person who wants to naturalize is connected to the Netherlands and is also doing his best to root in our society. The Secretary of State stresses that the objective of the draft law is to promote the integration of those eligible for Dutch citizenship into the Netherlands and also to participate fully in society. To this end, he argues that extending the period of main residence in Dutch society by two years would contribute to that better integration. "Involved people will have longer time to bond with Dutch society," he writes in response to our questions. That sounds very kind, but it is actually a strange argument for the shift from five to seven years. It is an argument that can be drawn to the limit. After all, the longer one is somewhere, the more chance one has to build a band. The Secretary of State therefore states that the seven-year limit is somewhat arbitrary, but then mentions the 2013 Report on Integration and Participation of Region Plan to underline that after five years, the citizens of the country have not yet reached the most complete form of participation. Two comments. First of all, the Secretary of State does not support any way in which, in the two additional years, the most complete form of participation is achieved. Secondly, this often mentioned report does not make any statements about the desirable length of the naturalisation period. All in all, it is not clear from the documents what contribution this bill is now making to the better integration that is so desired. Those who study the figures of the CBS cannot in any case find any evidence that, precisely during this extended period, the employment rate is increasing. That could be an indicator that people are more connected to Dutch society. There are plenty of studies that indicate that the first few years are of decisive importance in getting connected with Dutch society. Whether it is about language acquisition or finding a place on the labour market. Long-term living in uncertainty undermines the motivation to get home in the new country. During the examination in the Lower House, the relation of this bill to Article 34 of the Refugee Convention has already been discussed. That article states: "The Contracting States shall, as far as possible, facilitate the assimilation and naturalisation of refugees. In particular, they shall endeavour to speed up the naturalisation procedure and to reduce as far as possible the rates and costs of this procedure." In this legislative proposal, the State Secretary points to reduced fees and to the maximum period of 10 years set as a limit for the period of naturalisation in the European Convention on Nationality. That's where seven years still comes in neatly, that's right. In this way he explains that the Netherlands still facilitates the naturalization of refugees. But I really do miss the other aspect of Article 34, namely that the Contracting States seek to speed up the naturalisation process. The Secretary of State extends the time limit by two years, without making it clear which elements are bearing and how this relates to the text of the Treaty which speaks of speeding up. I would like to explain how he sees it and how he explains the text of the Treaty in this respect. How does the Secretary of State intend to ascertain whether enlargement is indeed an improved link with Dutch society? I am very curious about this, all the more so because this question has not been answered in the written submissions. Why, by the way, is it only the negative option of extending the deadline and not the positive incentive for the people who are working hard on it? Has any analysis been made as to what measure would result in better integration? If not, is the Secretary of State still prepared to do so? The CBS figures also show that one in seven refugees after naturalisation travels to another country to settle there. I would expect this to lead to further study. The answer only states that, following the adoption of this proposal, the Netherlands is therefore less attractive to smugglers. I can imagine, but once again I have no support for it. On the other hand, it can also be argued that all kinds of bodies are working for people who do not really want to be part of our society and that this will now take two years longer. Doesn't this fact ask for research most of all? I would also like to comment on this point. Mr. Chairman. In addition, this proposal seeks to delete some exceptions. The fraction of the Christian Union has difficulty with the changed position of minors aged 12 to 16 years. Of course, public order and security are very difficult, but at the same time we are talking about minors, where it is not clear in what way the world will be safer if it does not naturalise because of this ground. Outside the Netherlands, these young people are not suddenly good stallions. What agreements do we have at EU level? Now one could argue that at least the proposal will have a preventive effect, that young people will change their minds three times. But I would also appreciate it if the Secretary of State could back that up and also clarify the size of the group covered by this amendment and what happens to them when this bill is in force. The second problem concerns the expats. A lot has already been exchanged by others, so briefly from my side. The group of the Christian Union also received worrying messages from several quarters, as families are asked to move to the Netherlands and meet the income requirement there, while the man or woman with the other nationality abroad has to wait and pass an integration exam. I would like to add one more question to the questions that have already been asked. Isn't there a danger that only good expats will succeed? How does the new proposed regime relate to the free movement of persons within the EU? Can the Secretary of State give more insight into these arrangements in other EU countries? I like to hear it. Mr. Chairman. Becoming Dutch is not without obligation. The term 'nationality' includes the word 'nationality' referring to 'birth'. It is logical that there should be a process prior to this, that requirements for integration should be imposed. After all, you become a citizen of the Kingdom of the Netherlands with a history in which our freedoms have grown and sometimes fought, where we cherish the democratic rule of law. It is then important that you know the language and also make real efforts to be part of this country. This bill is based on a feeling from the cabinet that the extension of the naturalisation period contributes to that desired improved integration. But it is not substantiated, other options do not get room because they would cost more. However, it is not considered that improving integration also results in more newcomers providing their own income. The Christian Union Group is keen to work with the cabinet to resolve the problem of integration in many respects, but it does not yet see the key to this legislative proposal. There's too much of the evidence missing. And that is why I look forward very much to the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u86	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u87	Mr. Chairman. Following the adoption by the House of Representatives of the current legislative proposal, a further wide-ranging public debate has arisen about the meaning and the need to extend the general naturalisation period from five to seven years. The contributions of the government also recognise that this is an arbitrary decision. The central point is that this is as much a guarantee as possible that there is enough time to integrate into Dutch society and the Kingdom. In the response to this Chamber of 22 December 2016, it is clearly worded: "Seven years is more appropriate to the idea that a substantial period of stay and admission in one of the countries of the Kingdom should precede the granting of Dutch citizenship. It is mainly a value assessment that is not fully reflected in hard data such as figures and statistics. The choice for a given period is to some extent always arbitrary." Thus the statement of reply. A government which makes an arbitrary choice may be expected to reflect and weigh both the advantages and the disadvantages of the proposed extension. In the case of government arbitrage, the perception of the 50PLUS Group lacks an understanding of the adverse consequences of the proposed extension, not only for those who have long been waiting for their naturalisation, but also for the entire Dutch society. The research carried out by both the OECD and Erasmus University shows that naturalisation contributes significantly to the faster integration of migrants. It has also been shown that there is an increased risk of paid work if the integration process is accelerated rather than delayed. In a recent letter, the Rural Office of Refugee Work Netherlands states that as long as a migrant, and certainly the person from non-Western countries, does not yet have Dutch nationality, he is faced with discrimination in applications, internship placements and the conclusion of contracts and mortgages. In addition, travel is a major problem because they usually require visas for more countries. Family elsewhere can often not be visited. Children and young people who are in the process of building a future existence face the disadvantages of not having Dutch nationality, as the report of the National Ombudsman also shows. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he recognizes these disadvantages. In identifying the benefits of extending the five-to-seven-year deadline, the government is more detailed. What was still lacking in the explanatory statement is now in the response to this Chamber. The Secretary of State states four points in support of his writing "(...) that the factor of time has an unmistakably beneficial effect on the bond that someone builds with our country." We look at these four arguments mentioned by the Secretary of State in the reply. 1. "Who lives here does groceries." Does the Secretary of State really mean that, after five years of shopping, less purchasing power migrants will also integrate into society at a sixth and seventh year earlier and have a better understanding of the weekly benefits offers? 2. "Who lives here goes to school or works." Does the Secretary of State seriously believe that five years is absolutely insufficient? 3. "Who lives here visits a doctor." Here again, the question of whether poor health promotes integration and whether there really is a serious argument here. 4. "Who lives here goes to birthday parties." Here again the question whether the sixth and seventh years in the light atmosphere offer the necessary guarantee. Mr. Chairman. The four arguments mentioned, shopping, going to school or working, visiting a doctor and birthday parties, were not invented by me, but by the Secretary of State. They are quotes from his reply, in which the Secretary of State repeatedly even uses the words "guarantee" and "guarantee" in relation to integration. Does he find his own examples convincing? His answer will weigh heavily on the 50PLUS Group. I refer to the opinion of the Council of State: 'If the need to extend the period of entry and main residence cannot be justified, the Section recommends that the extension be waived'. Mr. Chairman. In view of our short speaking time and the issues already raised by the other groups, we are restricting ourselves to one more aspect of naturalisation. It concerns the very high fees that applicants, and especially those with families, do not incur. A family with two children already pays more than €1,300. Several statements by the Central Board of Appeal show that no special assistance is provided because the need for naturalisation would not be sufficiently demonstrated. First of all, we find this judgment incomprehensible and incorrect in principle. The government itself has stated that these are political rights and that the acquisition of the nationality of a country is the most far-reaching right that can be given to a foreigner residing in that country. The stranger ceases to be a stranger and becomes a Dutch citizen: a Dutchman like any other Dutchman. Becoming a Dutch citizen is the final piece of successful participation and integration, according to the State Secretary. If this does not make this impossible, the migrant will retain the status of second-class citizen. The government has an obligation to integrate non-Dutch as much as possible. A cost aspect of over-empty should not stand in the way of this. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that the establishment of the Central Appeals Board is contrary to the view of the Secretary of State? In its ruling, the Central Board of Appeal states that it does not consider the fees to be necessary. Does the Secretary of State share that view? The Central Board of Appeal states that the interested party has not relied on circumstances demonstrating the necessity of naturalisation. But isn't this necessity present in general terms alone? Apart from this, it is impossible to travel abroad in many individual cases. As an example: with a Dutch passport visa-free travel is possible to 155 states; with an Afghan passport this applies only to 22 countries. We have found that in practice a request for special assistance was rejected in advance by the social services on the basis of the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal (Hilversum, March 2017). Does the Secretary of State agree with us that any request for special assistance must be weighed separately in accordance with the general principles of good administration and that one cannot simply refer to a decision of the Central Appeal Board based on an individual case? I therefore have two further specific questions on this point. One: is the Secretary of State prepared to take a further cabinet meeting on the reduction of the above-mentioned very high fees with the intention of significantly reducing them? Secondly, is the Secretary of State prepared to use his influence so that requests for special assistance are not rejected in advance, as mentioned here? Mr. Chairman. We await the answers to our questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u88	Thank you. Mr Nagel, would you like to come back? Mrs Stienen has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u89	I thank Mr Nagel for his critical questions. Given the supporters of 50PLUS, I had actually expected that there would also be questions about what this change of law means for the group of Dutch people abroad. We believe that a rather large group of So I am very curious what the position of 50PLUS is when it comes to the question of what this means for people abroad with a non-Dutch partner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u90	I can be brief in that. I have already said that our speaking time is limited and that I would not mention all the issues because they have also been raised by other groups. In this context, I can be brief: we share the view expressed by your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u91	Thank you. We are very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u92	Thank you again, Mr Nagel. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also pronounce this contribution on behalf of the Animal Party. Mr. Chairman. It could be that we are debating with Mr Dijkhoff today for the last time in his capacity as Secretary of State for Security and Justice. Perhaps it would be a relief for him to deal with a bill that is so dear to his party at the end of this cabinet period. The extension of the naturalisation period is, after all, a product of political preference, and preference coupled with randomness is a dangerous mix. It is therefore up to the Senate to assess and assess the ratio of the proposal in terms of its usefulness and necessity, its effects and our legal obligations. The cabinet itself does not go much further than "a feeling" in its support. It is often recalled that the seven-year period is more appropriate than five years. For this reason, it quite rightly calls the time limit chosen arbitrary. It is rather frivolous, according to our group, to change the five-year naturalisation period that has been laid down in the law since 1892, without far-reaching clear need. After all, the government's argument is equally arbitrary. The government mentions the factor of time, which would have a positive impact on participation and integration, as Mr Nagel has already indicated. You could indeed reason that the longer someone lives here, the more likely this person is to participate in society. But after 25 years, the odds may be even greater, so this argument alone is not really valid. This is what this is all about. Are there serious participation problems of Dutch people at the moment due to the five-year naturalisation period? Has it proved too short from evaluations or other data? This seems to our group to be a minimum condition for a firm and proven practice. For decades, Dutch naturalisation policy has been based on the idea that it is undesirable for society to have large groups of foreigners who live here on a permanent basis, but cannot participate fully. Mrs Oomen also referred to Mr Hirsch Ballin's quote. He also indicated that: "If people are long-term members of a society, but are still legally excluded, then there is something wrong with that society. Then there is not sufficient use of the reciprocity of human cohabitation, of what those others can bring in." That this principle was widely shared was also demonstrated by the consistent line of successive governments, which was carried out and guarded, in particular, by CDA and VVD rulers. Current policies are therefore based on the experience that facilitating participation will also lead to better integration and participation, and benefit everyone, both society and the individual migrant. Naturalisation is a moment in a long process of integration, which further facilitates the integration of migrants and thus furthers overall integration. But this cabinet apparently considers naturalization to be a reward for a complete journey and thus immediately places responsibility for that successful process exclusively on the migrant. Does my group see this correctly? And if so, why has the aforementioned goal of naturalisation policy been abandoned? And is it not strange that, under the guise of poor participation, migrants should be denied the opportunity to participate fully? In recent years, the two-sidedness of an integration policy in which the government and the migrant are committed to integration has already suffered from privatisation in civic education, sanctions and an explicit adage of "own responsibility." Nevertheless, the Common Basic Principles for Immigrant Integration Policy in the European Union, which were established under the leadership of then Minister Verdonk in 2004, open with the recognition that integration is a two-way process, whereby society should facilitate the full economic, social, cultural and political participation of migrants. Does the government recognise that naturalisation is an essential public instrument to promote full participation? And, if so, why does it intend to delay the deployment of this instrument, thus denying migrants the opportunity to participate fully for longer? Citizenship is the key to political participation at national level, to the acquisition of a home or to the financing of a business. The Netherlands still strengthens the position on the labour market. The faster naturalisation, the better that position is on the labour market. These are all things that promote integration. Why does the government deprive itself and migrants of the opportunity to facilitate integration in this way? In fact, my group's question is: what added value of naturalization does the Secretary of State actually see for Dutch society? Does he only see it as a gift or reward for the individual migrant or as a right for that migrant, or does he also see it as a policy tool that benefits society as a whole? The extension of the deadline is also difficult to reconcile with the deadlines for integration. Migrants are already required to pass the integration examination within three years of admission, and non-citizens are already subject to this examination after five years for obtaining a licence for an indefinite period. This integration examination has recently been extended by a section on labour market orientation and the declaration of participation. This proposal therefore gives the impression that the cabinet itself does not fully believe in the effect of these obligations, because why else would migrants have to get two more years before they can start naturalisation? Moreover, for third-country nationals who do not apply for an indefinite authorisation and in any case for EU citizens, the amendment means that they will only be faced with an obligation of integration two years later. After all, their right of residence does not depend at all on integration requirements. The number of EU citizens represents the largest proportion of foreigners in our country. So we're not going to cut our fingers with the extended term? I have not received an adequate response from the Secretary of State and therefore give him another chance. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, the government is very easily getting over the criticism that the Netherlands, as a party to the Refugee Convention, is obliged to facilitate the naturalisation of refugees. Almost all my colleagues have raised this point with a great deal of concern. The Court of Auditors' evaluation shows that refugees are already heavily affected by their own responsibility for integration. The extension of the deadline therefore raises the threshold again. The government says it sees no reason to make an exception for refugees. But does the Secretary of State not recognise that because of the forced nature of their migration security of residence is particularly important to them? That is precisely why the Netherlands has ratified the Refugee Convention. A shorter deadline for them would also be in line with the ratio we use in the short term for the naturalisation of stateless persons. For them too, they cannot turn to another state. So why does the government refrain from maintaining five years for the refugees? Is this extension not contrary to the principle of treaty loyalty? That is a heavy word, the failure to comply with treaty obligations, treaty loyalty, but when I look at all the steps that make it more difficult for refugees to naturalize, while the treaty obliges them to facilitate and speed up, I wonder whether we are not undermining the objective. Mr. Chairman. The government takes all the advice to maintain the current deadline, from the Council of State, the ACVZ, the VNG and academic experts. They all argue that the proposal will damage integration rather than promote it. Shouldn't the government be better off than just referring to the coalition agreement and expressing a sense of opinion? At least, if it's her to do better integration? Another part of the bill is the abolition of the possibility for married partners of Dutch people to naturalize after three years if they live together abroad. The argument of equivalence to the less favourable rules for unmarried partners is not convincing, since it does not explain why they are not assimilated at the level of spouses. The consequences are great, however, because Dutch people can no longer move back to the Netherlands directly with their husband after a stay abroad. This leads to painful and unnecessarily long divorces, in which Dutch children can also be involved. In future, this Dutchman and his or her husband will have to meet the conditions for the admission of family reunification. It has already been mentioned: integration, income, age requirement, fees. But in particular the requirement that there should be a sustainable income, which means an annual contract or a year's work history, is very difficult if you just enter the labour market from abroad. The Secretary of State has undertaken to assess every case of expats individually, but that, of course, gives rise to a great deal of uncertainty. In any case, it means a long separation, because the outcome is uncertain and the treatment of the application must be awaited by the spouse abroad. If the IND refuses in the first instance, objection and appeal mean that you live apart for a year. And the Dutch child may in principle go to the Netherlands, but what if the nurturing mother or father is the foreigner? In particular, all these problems that are already to be foreseen raise the question of why this change is necessary. On this point too, however, the government is silent. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the bill reduces the age limit from 16 to 12 years for refusing to be Dutch in the event of a serious suspicion of danger to public order, good morals or the safety of the Kingdom. In the explanatory memorandum, the government mentions as a reason that foreigners from 12 to 15 years of age sometimes commit serious crimes. If it's just about that land, I'm asking the Secretary of State, wouldn't it make sense to make a criminal conviction a condition? In that case, the age of the criminal would have been taken into account by the criminal court in a possible declaration of guilt. But the proposal is now much wider than that. Is it indeed conceivable and foreseeable that even without criminal proceedings there will be a refusal of naturalisation of minors? Nevertheless, I would like a more precise and concrete explanation of the situations in which the Secretary of State intends to apply this option and how the interests of the child will be paramount, as provided for in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I do not think one-two-three is an example in which such a refusal would serve the child's interests, especially if the rest of the family were to acquire Dutch citizenship. I would therefore like a more detailed explanation. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, this bill fits into a series of legislative proposals that send a negative message to and about long-term migrants in the Netherlands. It creates an image that migrants have not yet been sufficiently integrated after five years. And it stipulates that migrants who have their future here and are rooted here, migrants who feel like they belong here, are still on hold before they really fit in, before we entrust them with Dutch citizenship. In spite of the formal intentions, the message will have a negative effect on integration, and the feeling of us side will be strengthened. Unfortunately, it fits in with a time when some political leaders increasingly place Dutch people against immigrants, by framing the latter as a threat. If, at the same time, immigrants are prevented from becoming Dutch, we are closer to polarisation. If the First Chamber adopts this proposal on the threshold of a new cabinet, my group fears that the ratio, generosity and support in the integration debate will not return in the coming period either. But for the time being we are still optimistic and looking forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Knip.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u95	Madam President. Now that Mrs Strik has started to present the VVD position, I feel strengthened to be very brief. So thank you for that. Naturalisation and the deadlines to be set are a sensitive issue. That's very clear. It is a subject with fundamental, treaty-based and also more sensitive aspects. None of these aspects, however, gives clear decisive criteria or leads for the framing of the main line of this bill, for the length of the period after which newcomers can be naturalized to Dutch. The proposed seven-year period instead of the current five-year period is rather arbitrary, as was argued by almost all the political groups and, moreover, by the government itself in the explanatory statement. My group recognizes this, but it immediately notes that the same applies to the current five-year period. Illustratively, the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom have been calling for a doubling of the deadline to ten years. This shows for a moment how different you can look at this, also often on the basis of your own experiences. The agreement in the government agreement that an extension to seven years will be carried out was supported by a large majority of the House of Representatives after the discussion, as in this house, passed many pros and cons. For the VVD group in the First Chamber, the political choice made there is a given. It therefore merely assesses the legality, efficiency and feasibility of the legislative proposal. We believe that these requirements have been met. It is a well-balanced proposal which has sought to be consistent with other deadlines in this area, such as those for integration, and with the expectations of the newcomer's time before he or she will really be able to participate in our society. I see Mrs Nooren at the interrupting microphone, but I still have one sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u96	If you still want to say that one sentence, go ahead. I have not yet given Mrs Nooren the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u97	For the VVD it is therefore important that naturalisation is not seen as a means, but as the crowning of a process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Knip. Mrs. Nooren, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u99	I have a question for Mr Knip. When assessing legislative proposals, it is very important to look at their quality. One part of the quality is the substantive justification of the legislative proposal. The Council of State has also asked for this. How does Mr Knip assess the substance of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u100	I can only say that this happens over and over again and is done by all the political groups and also by the government itself, as I have just said that it is, of course, an arbitrary choice. This limits the scope for justification. You make a choice, and that's what it's become. The VVD is behind this because, as has been said, this choice offers a certain logical connection to expectations of integration and the deadlines used.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u101	Interestingly, the government indicates that this bill aims to assess integration and participation. How does the VVD view it that no own investigation has been carried out? What's the basis? What will be better if the five-year deadline goes after seven years? Mr Knip has heard the speech of my group. We say that an extension of a time limit is negotiable, provided that there is a justification, for example, based on research. How does the VVD Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u102	I would then have to consider the extent to which ministers and secretaries of state should be provided with sufficient research. I think that's going a little far. The government's making a proposal. The VVD Group has also taken a good look at this and supports the proposal on the basis of the considerations that have been given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u103	I shall first give the floor to Mrs Stienen and then to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u104	I have two questions on two different subjects. I know the VVD as a party that likes to reward people who work hard and succeed in life. Many newcomers are powerful after five years, and sometimes before, because of hard work the Dutch language is powerful. They have a job and are fully integrated into Dutch society. My question to Mr Knip is: what is it then for these people who are perhaps already ready to participate in Dutch society after three or four or five years? They can use that passport very well, also to make that citizenship a reality. With this, the VVD group actually punishes people who do very well, who work hard and who therefore need to be rewarded. How does Mr Knip look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u105	I don't see the element of punishment. Following your speech, I believe that naturalisation as an instrument is no longer necessary for people who have been integrated after three, four or five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u106	I have a follow-up question. This means that these people who are well integrated have to wait another two years until they have mentioned all the benefits of the Dutch passport that are advantages by myself and my colleagues, so I will not repeat them here. They will therefore have to miss all these benefits. That's how you put people behind you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u107	I don't see that lag. It has been given a legal period. It is difficult to apply all kinds of nuances and to think about things over and over again to test whether someone could possibly be naturalized earlier. That seems to me to be an unworkable matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u108	I regret, however, that a liberal party says 'we cannot make nuances', while, of course, we are dealing with a great many different individual cases. In the opinion of my group, they are entitled to obtain a passport after five years. My second question is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u109	I thought you'd already asked two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u110	No, this is a different subject. These were two questions about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u111	Then you must be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u112	I'll be very brief. VVD and D66 do very well in elections among Dutch people abroad. I didn't hear Mr Knip say anything about that. That surprises me because it has been demonstrated by all my colleagues and myself that this change of law has great disadvantages for Dutch people abroad who have non-Dutch partners who want naturalization. How does Mr Knip look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u113	I didn't say anything about that. Then I come to the sensitive issues. Of course, it feels like an extremely difficult matter for someone to come to the Netherlands for three years and so on, but you will have to make choices somewhere. If you were to say "Yes, but in those cases it doesn't really have to be" you'd get another sucking effect in the undesirable sense of, for example, marriages of convenience and the like. You gotta hit a picket pole somewhere, and that's right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u114	Finally, Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u115	I regret that the VVD Group apparently does not recognise the great work and added value of Dutch people abroad, not only for our economy, but also for the image of the Netherlands abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u116	Mr President, I really object to that. Of course we appreciate that very much. You should not turn around and say: it cannot last five years and so the VVD group does not have enough eyes for hardworking people who want to become Dutch. Of course, that's a bullshit story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u117	I'm afraid Mr. Cut is confusing two things. The expats are about staying in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u118	Thank you. I call Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u119	The VVD Group agrees with the seven-year term. That doesn't surprise me so much in itself. However, I would like to ask Mr Knip what about the fact that people have to take all the integration exams already or after three years after admission or at least after five years if they want an indefinite permit? That's the same integration exam as naturalization. If they make it after three or five years, haven't they already proven that they are sufficiently settled in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u120	That could be very good, but as I said, it seems to me very difficult in practice to apply separate deadlines for all kinds of cases. That alone is bureaucratic unworkable. You must have a guideline somewhere. You have to have a clear provision that says: there it can be done. If you're faster on getting settled, that's very nice, of course. That's also to be commended. To reply to the interruption just now: of course we would like those people to stay, because they make a very good contribution. There's no discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u121	I am very pleased that Mr Knip says that we should not all be given different deadlines, because that is what we are going to get with this bill, of course. After five years, you're gonna have to pass the integration exam. Then you'll get a license for an indefinite period of time. That is now equal to the deadline for naturalization. The integration exam is also equal. So why make that differentiation now? If you assume that people who pass the exam are settled, then after five years they're ready to naturalize, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u122	If they are so settled, then it is no problem to wait for those two years until naturalization. I do not see that problem, because then you are already integrated. You'll be fully functional. So what's the problem? The point is that as a State you say: if you want to come here, please, but then you have to meet a number of conditions and we agree that meeting those conditions will have effect after seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u123	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u124	With his answer, Mr Knip seems to be ignoring the importance of having full citizenship here. Mr Knip says that these people can wait another two years, even if they are settled. This means that they cannot participate politically for two years. They can't vote nationwide. They cannot participate in this and cannot enjoy many other benefits that citizenship offers. Mr. Knip can't underestimate that. So it's not a matter of waiting a little longer, two years, even if they've already settled in. It's not a matter of: this is not a problem for them. No, Mr Knip will remember that opportunity to participate fully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u125	I understand your reasoning, but I put my reasoning to the contrary. I have said it twice already: it is very difficult to apply all kinds of deadlines to different categories of citizens more or less settled. Then it's not manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u126	Finally, I would like to make one comment. That is why I would argue for a single period of five years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u127	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u128	Thank you, Mr. Cut. Does one of the Members wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u129	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u130	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Chamber for the fact that we can discuss this bill today. I have listened with great interest to the contributions of your Members in the first term. I note that this is a highly political debate and that it is becoming a little difficult for me to meet all the combined demands or requests mentioned in the first term. I often heard a question for further justification, but I also heard a question for non-political support. That's impossible with this bill. Some legislative proposals are very technocratic; this bill is not. Some arguments and arguments for a proposed change of law are very technocratic, well measured, predictable and to be planned. Then you can call all kinds of erudite planning agencies and calculate all the effects in advance. We can't do that here. That is not the motivation to table this bill. It's highly political. Both the five years we have now and the seven years we want to go to is a choice on a scale that can run up to ten years, without saying in advance: at five years you have these advantages and disadvantages and at seven years you have other advantages and disadvantages for those who have the need and the will to become a Dutchman and thus face this term. I should also like to point out that, in the first period, a great deal of input was made from the perspective of those who want to naturalize. I understand that, but there is also another perspective, which is more at the basis of this bill: the perspective of all those people who are already naturalized, or us Dutch and our society. We have decided to be an open society where you can join. But we have also said that that is more than just an empty citizenship. It's more than a legal construct of people, in the sense of: if we all live together, let's give each other the same passport. There's values in there, and there's standards in there. We try to ensure that if we as Dutch people grant another, a non-Dutch, the privilege to become a Dutchman, he is also as close to us as possible and really fits as well as possible into that society. That is what we are trying to do with qualitative demands, such as an obligation to integrate, and we are trying to do so by setting deadlines, so that people who are longer in our society are more likely to join that society and so that, if we allow someone, we also have a better chance of making sure of it and having confidence that that person is integrated, participates and thus is closer to our society. Those are the motives. To answer one of Mrs Stienen's questions, I think: for this cabinet, naturalisation is really a conclusion, a crowning achievement of a process that someone, a non-Dutchman, is going through to become a Dutchman and not an incentive to speed up the integration of the same person.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u131	The last point in particular is actually also an answer to a question I had asked. I would like to hear a further argument as to why the Secretary of State clearly wants to break with the starting point we have had so far. But I would also like to come back to the Secretary of State's remark that all the contributions were made from the migrants' perspective. That's not true. I also asked what the problems in Dutch society are with the current naturalisation period. Did they indeed cause problems of integration? What the Secretary of State said about the use as a policy instrument has to do with Dutch society. Does the Secretary of State not see that Dutch society can also benefit from naturalisation on time, so that people have additional opportunities to strengthen their integration process?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u132	Dutch society benefits from the fact that those who join that society are just to use the word: up to the policy we all have are as far as possible in their path of becoming a Dutchman and fitting the Dutch standards and values. As I said before, we have qualitative ways of getting a little insight into that. You don't have a test for that that you can take away from the person. The factor time can play a good role in this. It is in our interest that people we grant Dutch citizenship are as far as possible in their integration process and participate as fully as possible in Dutch society. This could help. I do not see that we should use the definitive step of becoming a Dutch citizen as a means of encouraging this integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u133	These are migrants who often already have a very strong right of residence and a very difficult residence permit. So we're talking about strangers who, if they don't naturalize, are still here. Of course, it's not an admission policy. Do you not therefore see the importance of society to facilitate them in this process of integration? That's not just a threat to society, is it? That can also be useful for society, can't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u134	Sure. I am pleased that Mrs Strik herself also points out the difference between the right of residence and naturalisation. In this way, a lot of the perceived uncertainty about which questions have been asked is to be taken into account, because after five years there is still a strengthening of the right of residence. This is also a major factor: permanent stay or non-permanent stay. That's what you notice when you hire people, for example. I also think that you should have that final final step after that: it is not only that you are allowed to stay here, but also that you are truly fully part of our society. I do not think in such terms that someone who is not naturalized is a threat or should be removed. I'd like to distance myself from that. The logic that someone, because he has a longer or strong right of residence, should actually become a Dutch citizen, is something I do not fully follow. I think it is a good step that after a number of years you will have more certainty about the right of residence and can then take the step to naturalize and really fully... Well, fully; just be Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u135	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u136	The Secretary of State says that the argument of residence uncertainty has been mentioned. I haven't heard that many times, I have to be honest. What has often been mentioned is the importance of being able to participate politically, vote or run for office at national level. I also mention the possibility of taking a mortgage and investing in a company of your own. If you give this access to long-term migrants, can it really be of benefit to society as a whole and promote integration, both at micro and macro level? I'd like the Secretary of State to go into that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u137	There will probably soon be someone whose integration and participation in society went so well that after five years he became a model Dutchman. It's possible. In practice, of course, we see that this is not the norm and that many people who did not necessarily come here voluntarily, let me put it this way: the starting point of their departure from their own country was not really voluntary; that is why refugees are needed for a longer period of time before they have even fled the war situation and are based on the fact that they must be integrated into another society, which is perhaps different from what they are used to and that time is needed for that adjustment. But someone will undoubtedly get up after five years and say: I had wonderful plans and I am already an end. That's right, but the norm is for everyone. The norm is set at a point that you think is best served by society. I am not saying that this standard should be as far as possible in the future. I think seven years is a good new balance to do this, and after five years you still have the certainty of the European arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u138	But if you then look at the states of the CBS, you can see that, for example, employment participation only shows a new real increase in the graphs at nine to ten years of residence. That's what you see in four to five years. That'll be the first cohort. And only later in the dataset, after that, you'll see it again. The strange thing is that the Secretary of State chooses for seven years, when I find nowhere a numerical basis for why those seven years are so good. That's an arbitrary choice. He admits that himself. My fear is that in two or three years' time, or whenever, we will be able to move something, precisely because it is so arbitrary. Would it not then be much more valuable to say: we base ourselves on figures and then say that this period is good for a truly valuable connection with society? I miss that. I would like to have an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u139	I don't have that justification for seven years, nor for eight, nine, ten, six, five, four, three, two or one year. We've got all kinds of tests. In this I see many correlations, but I do not see causalities with the moment when one can naturalize for the first time. This also means that not everyone naturalises seven years after entry. There are also a lot of differences in this area individually. If someone is eligible after seven years, that does not mean that they are naturalized after seven years. There are, of course, individual differences in this. So the norm you're setting is: one has to have at least x years, it was five years, but it's going to be seven years, if it's up to me and this Chamber has decided to be here before we let that person take the final step and make it possible for him to become part of our society through Dutchhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u140	The Secretary of State admits that there is absolutely no clear evidence that there is an improvement in integration in the two years of extension. Actually, he's saying that he can't back it up. In fact, then, he remains convinced that the seven-year deadline will be an improvement. But it's purely a feeling. He says he can't back it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u141	No. There are two aspects. First of all, I indicated in detail that I also think that increasing from five to seven years makes sense from the other point of view, namely that of the people who already belong to a society and should determine when they find it acceptable to give someone the opportunity to take the last step in our society as well. That's a matter of taste. That is why I said: if we cannot use political arguments, it will be a short one. I am sensitive to the arguments of a more technocratic nature: if you can see that there is an optimum, why should you deviate from them? The problem is not, however, that there is an optimum that I deviate from. The problem is that you can't provide such a basis for another choice, that you can't say: five years is good. The only advantage of five years is that nothing changes, that we know it, that we're familiar with it. But I don't think you can draw the conclusion from that that's best "because it already is."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u142	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u143	Yes, Chairman, last time. As far as the second element is concerned, I do not entirely agree with the Secretary of State. After all, we are seeing a number of studies on what helps to achieve good integration. A great deal has also been exchanged with his colleague, Mr Asscher, in the context of integration policy. What's helping? That's a time when someone can start working right away, get to work. And what does that help? That is also the fact that people are becoming Dutch. I miss the fact that the Secretary of State has something to do with the investigations that have been carried out on this point. Did he also request information from his European neighbours on that point? And is there anything more to support that technocratic argument, as he calls it, among those countries which have chosen for seven years? As far as the first is concerned, I must say that it feels almost arbitrary: depending on the political majority that exists, we are setting a deadline. The Secretary of State wouldn't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u144	On that last point, I say: that is not arbitrary, that is democracy. A decision is taken by a majority and if a majority meets all the obligations under the Treaty that we have and has a preference for a change in terms of terms, then, frankly, I have nothing against it. Participation in work is certainly an important key to eventually participating fully in society, but not being Dutch does not mean that you cannot work here. If there is discrimination in the workplace, it is bad, and we must fight it and tackle it. However, I do not think that the granting of naturalisation is an appropriate means of combating discrimination, which unfortunately is still taking place after naturalisation, for example on the basis of the last name. We have to do it another way. So there is also a correlation between labour force participation and integration, but not a causality with the moment when one can naturalize.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u145	I would like to comment on the second argument, namely that society has the feeling that seven years is a good time. At least that's how I hear the Secretary of State. Has that been investigated? Has anyone been asked what they think: three years, five years or seven years? And is there any question of target groups? That feeling of the Secretary of State, of the government, comes from somewhere. Is there any basis for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u146	We have a parliamentary representation system. So the question of whether this is a better term than the one we had, we do not put it by referendum or opinion poll. We tested that through the trial in the Lower House. And that will happen again here tonight, through you, insofar as you want those arguments to be taken into account in your decision-making. We have found that there is a broad majority who think it is a good idea to take it to seven years. I'm just gonna see where in the question set I've landed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u147	Mr Van Hattem has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u148	Yes, Mr. Chairman, a brief interruption. If the government assumes that the factor of time has a positive effect on participation in Dutch society, would it not be more logical to opt for a period of two times five years, so ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u149	It could be. However, the differences between the naturalisation deadline and the deadlines for other accession arrangements will increase. We didn't choose that. We think that would be too out of line. That's why we didn't choose it. If you look only at the factor of time, it could indeed be, but there are other aspects throughout the system of admission. There would then be too great a contrast between the naturalisation period and the deadlines applicable to other arrangements. Mr. Chairman. Many Members have asked questions about the current thresholds, the concerns of the UNG and the opinions. Here again you come to the question: do you see naturalization as a means of integration or as a goal? I think that participation and integration are gradual processes, starting at the time of establishment. As I mentioned earlier, it also depends on the person. Some people have thought long and have chosen to settle in the Netherlands, for example as a citizen of knowledge. For other people, who would not have wanted to leave at all and who have ended up here, that is more pleasant in itself than ending up in many other countries. After arriving, the realization that the future may no longer be in the home country will only come to pass when participation and integration takes place. I think that a lasting relationship with the Netherlands should actually be there. This is a necessary condition for the acquisition of Dutch citizenship. With this extension of the deadline, we also offer more room for this and we perpetuate that people do not just allow for our society. We have, of course, also looked at other countries, as Members of this Chamber have mentioned before. Then you can see that everything is between five and ten years old, but that with seven years we are in a place around which many neighbouring countries are also around and for which many other countries have also chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u150	However, I would like to try to see if there are any further arguments behind it, apart from political preference. You say it can be seven, it can be five. But the advantage of five is that it stays the way it is. It's been five years. Isn't it necessary for you to show that it doesn't work, that it's too short-term? What are the experience data of the current naturalisation period in relation to the integration of these Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u151	Of course, we've had the challenge of integrating newcomers for decades, I think. We have tried many variants for this, but we have not yet found the miracle cure, so let me just say about the attempt of this cabinet to find another way of integration and integration. I am therefore also open to the criticisms made by a number of Members and to the critical reports on how things have been in recent years. I am glad that I am still able to defend this law in the Demissionary State, but I do limit myself to thinking ahead of time how to do it better. A new cabinet will be able to deal with that. So I do not think we can say that we have had a very successful integration and naturalisation policy for decades. I am not saying that extending the five-to-seven-year period immediately solves it, but I do not think you can say that it was all so good and that keeping the good should be a reason not to think about a change in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u152	I understand from the Secretary of State's reply that research does not really make it clear that there is a causal relationship between the five-year naturalisation period and the possible problems of integration that exist in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u153	I am not aware of any definitive and convincing investigation of any time limit. Therefore, there are no arguments put forward from investigations that are seven years too long. I'm so honest, if there's no scientific clarity about it, I can't fake it either. So you can't say: scientifically, five years is ideal. You can't say seven years is ideal. You can only see that the factor of time can have a positive effect. The choice is where you draw the line. In my view, this choice can be fed by more than just the pragmatic argument of effectiveness, especially since I have never seen a study of the causality of naturalization and certain aspects of participation in society in terms of effectiveness. That's why I see it as a closure and not as a means. Those questions are of a different order; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u154	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u155	We've got the integration exam. Some have to do so within three years and others after five years, if they have an indeterminate permit. Can I see from your words that, if they succeed, this is not enough for you to guarantee that we are dealing with established people who can be part of our society here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u156	I think the other way around, you can draw a negative conclusion. If people do not pass the integration exam, we can see it as a permanent sign that the integration process has not yet been completed. If people do make it, you can conclude that a step has been taken. There is no physical process through which you can measure independently of the person or be fully integrated. As I said before, you have qualitative tests, as Mrs Strik points out. They say a lot, but not everything. In addition, you have elements of integration and participation that are difficult to measure, but for which there is a greater chance that they may have occurred if the period is two years longer. Mr Nagel included the most frivolous sentences in the reply in his speech. I compliment him on his creativity. He has put them before me as questions again. I admit that the examples of birthday parties, visits to doctors and shopping are, of course, not convincing. We have tried to illustrate in a somewhat more accessible way than usual in a statement of response what one can think about in two years' time. It's about what happens more than usual. There could have been talk to the neighbors. I think that Mr Nagel mentioned it in his list. So no, of course it's not that the more birthdays you've visited, the better you're integrated. You will know by now that you only get one piece of cake in the Netherlands, but that is not enough for full integration and participation. However, I believe that if you continue to participate actively in our society, you will be able to sustain the integration process. After that, there's nothing left and that's why I call naturalization the final piece. After that, you're just really Dutch. You can't go back: inside, so to speak. Society has this last point to address people in terms of integration or our standards and values. I think it will help if we give people the opportunity to stay longer, which sounds friendly, because of course we also demand it; let me be honest about this to build a lasting relationship with our society by living in it, hopefully working and living in it. Mrs Stienen asked: if you bring qualitative arguments, can't a distinction be made between different deadlines, namely short track or fast track and the regular seven years? For certain categories we have exceptions to the regular term of seven years. That's why I used to talk about "walking out of step." This is an option with a lighter procedure to obtain Dutch nationality. There are shorter deadlines and less strict conditions. This option applies to persons who already have a connection with our country or for other reasons are more quickly eligible for Dutch citizenship, for example second generation migrants and children born in the Netherlands who are stateless. So we have a faster track for certain categories. We talked about the investigations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u157	I hope the Secretary of State has heard that D66 also attaches importance to what naturalisation means to society. We are striving for a sustainable and harmonious society. For us, this is a society in which solidarity and destiny are central. That is indeed a two-way street. As far as pies are concerned: in Limburg you get two pieces of cake or pie, but that goes for the people who integrate there. But seriously: I have the feeling that the Secretary of State does not go into the question of the D66 group about the short track and the fast track of the Belgian model. With great respect for our Belgian southern neighbours: apparently we can do it there. Then why couldn't we? In my questions to Mr Knip, I spoke about people who are very well integrated, who may have been paying taxes for three or four years and who have not had Dutch citizenship and who do not have a Dutch passport will suffer such great disadvantages that two years of extra waiting is almost a punishment for being well integrated. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u158	I consider this a bit of a transition problem, because people who talk extra in two years' time are people who had the expectation that they could do it after five years. It'll be gone in a couple of years. Then it's just a matter of: I want to go to the Netherlands, what are the demands there? Oh, it takes seven years. If they have conducted comparative country surveys, they will have seen this more often: seven, eight or ten years. The element that people would feel as a punishment I see as a transition problem and not as something that remains permanent. I didn't think the alternative was desirable. Then you would give priority, for example, after five years or four years, if people meet higher standards. Then you'd say that someone who already has a very big language mastery can do it before. We ask others to wait longer, then to enter a lower level of language control. I do not see how else you can use an objective criterion, in which one is entitled to an accelerated admission, only by saying: then the requirements are higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u159	I do not quite understand this, because, as Mr Strik has already reminded us, the people who have to take integration tests have already done the language test. They have already succeeded. You yourself say: we see it as a final piece. Then it also applies to people who get Dutch citizenship after seven years or perhaps after ten years. Then they are completely Dutch. Then why would that be a lower level?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u160	I assumed for a moment that, if you use two deadlines, there must be an objective criterion why one should be eligible for a four-year period and the other should not. Well, that's my fault. I have assumed that the demands should be higher. If it applies to everyone, you have de facto a shorter period of integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u161	Finally, Mrs Stienen, and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u162	My group has seen that people who could have Dutch citizenship after five years, because they are fully integrated, in such a system could. The people who, as the Secretary of State says, need two more years, will also have two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u163	I think that comes down to not adopting the law. Then anyone who meets the requirements can be naturalized after five years. People who do not comply will then be rejected and apparently have to take longer before they meet the qualitative requirements. If you accept the law, you have the law. Then seven years is the short track, but then you don't have a specific arrangement. Other countries do have two arrangements with two deadlines, with short-term requirements higher than those for the long-term. I do not think that is desirable, because the person who travels the longer-term route then tested you at a lower level than the people who were on the short-term route. Mrs Oomen asked me about Alexander and Peter and Mrs Stienen I believe about Alexandra and Petra. In any case, it is the same categories. I understand the examples and will do my best to treat them as well as possible. But of course we do not have an expat policy or an expat clause. About the whole discussion whether we like expats, I say: yes, I love everyone who does their best in society, even if he doesn't have a top career abroad or if he doesn't have a career at all. As long as he does his best, I love it all. We only have policies for Dutch people who have a foreign partner and want to bring them to the Netherlands. What is happening now is that we make foreign legal demands on, for example, marriage migration. There are exceptions to it by naturalizing. Naturalisation removes a number of requirements for the right of residence. I don't think it's weird that, when you naturalize someone, there should also be a connection with the country. A band with a Dutchman is not yet the same as a band with the Netherlands, no matter how deep and intimate that band with that person is. Otherwise, you get the situation that someone who has never been to the Netherlands will first become Dutch and then, because he is Dutch now, can easily move to the Netherlands. If it were only twenty expats a year, you would have had a discussion about expats. But this is true of course for every Dutchman who moves abroad and meets a partner there or who marries a partner through that country, and then wants to come to the Netherlands. "Expat" is not a legal definition either. That word evokes a certain image, as "marriage officer" or "import bride" evokes another image, but the legal requirements are of course the same for every Dutchman who enters into or marries a registered partnership abroad. You don't have a separate expat policy in there. It is also difficult to give numbers or a definition, because it is a very diverse company of people who are covered by this scheme and are now faced with the requirement of three years of physical residence in the Netherlands. To stay in that line of question: even with expats you can expect a lasting bond with the Netherlands before you become Dutch. In many cases that is not a problem either, because then you first move with the whole family to the Netherlands and after a number of years you can also naturalize the partner from abroad. Of course, people who do not comply with family reunification requirements are getting in the way. There is now a short route for this, by naturalizing first, but that also has adverse consequences. This also has an impact on people who do not happen to fall in love abroad, but are also culturally focused on marrying someone from another culture who is less close to our state and then coming to the Netherlands. And you can't make rules for one, but not for the other. That is why this also has an impact on the category of expats, about which there are many questions without us having a precise definition of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u164	I'm not specifically concerned with expats. I am simply concerned that people who have been married to a Dutchman for three years are in a family-law relationship where it is obvious to create a common legal basis as well. This can be found in the joint Dutchmanship. Whether it's expats or something else you call, I don't care. It would be wrong if it were typical of marriage immigration, where we try to obtain nationality through marriage, but I wonder how often that occurs. The deadline of three years ahead is, in itself, already a guarantee against too much abuse of such a regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u165	Mrs. Oomen, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u166	I believe there are a few things that are mixed up. First of all, what is the problem that has to change this? Why do you want to change it? You have not given any clear motivation for this. We don't have any demands for married or registered partners right now. That's one. When one of the partners wants to come to the Netherlands, they must meet all the criteria for obtaining a residence permit, also in accordance with European legislation. If I'm a fugitive foreigner who comes to the Netherlands and wants to reunite his family, it's faster, because that lady doesn't have to be here for three years first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u167	Naturalization is even longer. If a refugee from Syria comes to the Netherlands and lets his family come through family reunification, they have to meet the naturalisation period of seven years. So it's gonna take longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u168	The Dutchman who comes back from a stay abroad, who has lived for ten years and is married to a partner who is not from the EU, is much more difficult. He himself is free to come back with his children, but can not be reunited with his partner until he has demonstrated in a year and a half that he also meets the income requirement to make his partner appear. A person who makes a request for family reunification has different demands, because they can receive the normal assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u169	For establishment in the Netherlands there is indeed a difference. That's an advantage and a disadvantage. Moreover, there is no problem for people who meet the income requirements. For people who do not meet the income requirements... Once they meet them and are in the Netherlands, they can naturalize after three years, so that is faster than with resettlement of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u170	Finally, Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u171	We misunderstand each other. Suppose I worked abroad and got my income there, but then want to get the family I lived with abroad in a sustainable context. Then I'll be here alone for a year and a half, because I can't reunite because I haven't had any income in the Netherlands. Then I'll have to do it here for a year and a half without my partner. That stranger, the fugitive, doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u172	No, but that... it's all fruit. You can compare apples to pears, but that fugitive probably has a house that's been bombed. Of course, he can't stay where he was. I understand that there are problems with people who do not meet the income requirements. Before that, there was some kind of way to jump over it through naturalization law. You could become Dutch at a distance, without ever having been in the Netherlands, because you were married to a Dutchman for more than three years. Then, because you were naturalized, all kinds of demands for coming to the Netherlands did not apply. I understand that, but I think you are laying down these rules for everyone, not just for the people that Mrs Oomen calls every time, many of whom do comply with the rules. I don't think it's crazy to say that you must have lived here at all before you become Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u173	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u174	Can you tell me why it is easier for a refugee to bring his partner here, while the Dutchman who has built up a large capital abroad will have to wait a year and a half because he doesn't have any income work in the Netherlands yet? That is the way things are going!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u175	But those are totally different regimes. That fugitive can come here because he's not sure his life at home, otherwise it wasn't a fugitive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u176	Mrs Oomen, really the very, very last thing on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u177	But why are you changing the regime? What problem do you want to solve?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u178	The problem that people who have never set foot in the Netherlands could become full Dutch, just because they have a relationship with a Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u179	Mr Ten Hoeve on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u180	The Secretary of State says: we make no distinction, because this applies to everyone. Of course it is! That's exactly what I'm talking about. I don't want to make a distinction at all. Nor do I care about cases that happen to get into trouble. I am concerned about the general principle. Why would you deny a person who has been married for three years or had a registered relationship with a Dutchman the right to have his family relationship under Dutch citizenship? What's against that? If that has lasted three years, the possibility of abuse is very small. So what reason is there to change that existing scheme now, purely with the argument that you want everyone who gets Dutch citizenship to have lived here for three years? I don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u181	We see that differently. I don't deny people anything. A Dutchman goes to work abroad, lives and works there for a long time, meets a partner and establishes a family there. That family is a mix of nationalities. I'm not saying these people can't come to the Netherlands. I am not saying that they cannot all be Dutch after three years. It is after three years, because you want people who become Dutch, to acquire our nationality, to have a connection with our country. You're just focusing on the people who actually come back. There are also a lot of people abroad who do not want to come back at all. Then you have Dutch people who will have been in the Netherlands once, but who are not really part of our society. You only gave them nationality because they were married or married to a Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u182	We have a second term. Mr Ten Hoeve, Mrs Oomen and Mrs Stienen, I would like to ask you to wait until the Secretary of State has moved on in his speech and then to assess whether you can raise this in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u183	Naturalisation is not the same as right of residence. Naturalization is the full part of Dutch society. We are now setting a threshold: if you want to, you must have lived in the Netherlands for three years. In order to avoid too easy having partners from other countries come to the Netherlands, there are also requirements for staying in the Netherlands, for example the income requirement. I can promise to keep an eye on how many categories the income requirement is a problem and where we can relate it to a category that is probably often referred to as "expats." Then we can see how many times in its application there was a need to make exceptions in customization and whether this should lead to an overall change of policy per AMvB that you can then perpetuate. I don't think it's wise to drop that demand for the time being, because it makes it possible for people to become Dutch citizens who have never been part of Dutch society. That's what the three-year deadline is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u184	Mr Van Hattem, I had asked if the Secretary of State could continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u185	Mrs Oomen asked about registered partners who reside in an EU Member State and why we do not equate this with stay in the Netherlands. If you've lived in Spain for years, that doesn't mean anything about your relationship with the Netherlands. There is a connection with Spain. You could derive a European feeling from that, but I do not think that is enough for the Netherlands. Freedom of movement in Europe can be used, so this is an easy category. We also see that people go first to a European Member State on purpose, because it is easier there to have a partner from another country come across. If you did not make this demand for EU Member States, you would maintain that undesirable behaviour. I come to the questions about the opposition of public order aspects in the categories 12 to 16-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u186	Mrs. Strik, I had asked to give the Secretary of State an opportunity to pursue his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u187	But he starts with another block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u188	One very short question, then, and no questioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u189	It is a question that I did not answer in the written rounds either. That is why I would now like an answer from you. EU citizens do not have an obligation to become citizens. By extending the deadline, we are actually slowing down the obligation of integration for them by two years. How do you feel about that? Did you weigh that up on this bill? Finally, that is the largest group we have here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u190	I understand that Mrs Strik wants to know whether I think it is different for EU citizens that she can only become Dutch after seven years than for non-EU citizens. For both categories, I refer to the arguments we have already exchanged. I think that goes for them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u191	Mrs. Strik, if we can get a very big explanation now...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u192	The point is that they are not subject to integration in advance. All these other migrants have to settle in in advance anyway. They're gonna have to take that exam. This is not the case for EU citizens, so we cannot impose a duty on them by suspending the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u193	For them too, these arrangements remain. I can't quite place the question and I'm afraid to ask for an explanation now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u194	This can be explained in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u195	At the public order challenge at 12 to 16 years we see different interests. You see the importance of a minor to be able to naturalize and the importance of society to prevent people with false intentions, who are criminals, from acquiring nationality. After that, you'll just have a chance to change your life. It is a postponement of the ability to neutralize, not a setback, unless one turns out to be on the wrong path. You can't intervene anymore if you've naturalized a minor and you find out ten years later that he didn't want to improve his life. It can also be seen as an incentive to improve life after the first missteps between 12 and 16 years in order to be able to naturalize after a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u196	Secretary of State, Mrs Stienen was waiting for a long time to ask a short question about the previous block. I now give her an opportunity for one brief question about the previous block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u197	There was a misunderstanding between the President and me about what movement I had to make in order to get the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u198	Those who remain between the benches are not yet close enough to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u199	I understand. Thank you, Madam President. I would like to ask a question to the Secretary of State about Dutch people abroad and his assumption that people who are married to a Dutchman in 2017 and are not Dutch must have lived in the Netherlands three years in a row to have some sense of Dutch society. In a time with social media, with Facebook and Facetime, especially in families in which Dutch children grow up, I think it's a bit crazy to say that you must have lived in the Netherlands three years in a row to feel that connection with the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u200	I take note of that. I think you can take part of the Netherlands through online media, but not everything and not enough. If you want to give someone the greatest good you have as a society, the nationality, to someone, I don't think it's weird that you expect that person to want more than just that passport and that person wants to settle in the Netherlands for at least a few years. You can never be in the Netherlands, have a passport and never come there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u201	I would also like to give the floor to Mr Van Hattem for one brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u202	I was just standing there, too, Mr. Chairman. I hear all the time that expats should be given a certain position, but the situation is that the largest group of such marriage, family and partner migration are, for example, people living in Morocco, a woman or a man from Morocco marrying and then coming to the Netherlands. That is precisely the group that often integrates the worst. Given the logic of this bill, would it not be better to extend the deadline for that group from three to seven or, even better, to ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u203	On the one hand, I can't make a distinction for the expats and on the other hand, I can't. Anyone who falls into that category and meets the requirements must be treated in the same way. This includes the people Mr Van Hattem describes. That's why you have to make a balance of interests somewhere. Then I think it is real to set that three-year deadline for all those people, both those who have a Dutch partner abroad who have fully taken up the Dutch standards and values via Facebook and perhaps participate in them, virtually from abroad, up to and including the person who may, precisely because he does not yet live in Dutch standards and values and picks up their freedoms, be married and then migrates to the Netherlands. All these people have to comply with the same rules. You don't have an expat law or any other law. You just have a law for Dutch people abroad and their foreign partners. That is why I believe that these three years are a well-chosen deadline that does justice to all matters. It's an extension from zero to three years and I think that's a good step to make sure that this bond with the Netherlands is firmer than when you've never lived there. Then there is the public order measure and also the questions about the innocence premiss. It was said to be an additional sanction. It is a postponement of the possibility of naturalisation, unless people themselves delay by continuing to go on a criminal path after that first misstep. Well, then, of course, you'll get to the case. The problem is this. If you don't ask until you've been convicted, you already know there's a suspicion. Then you still naturalize and you can't go anywhere after you've been convicted. That is why the cabinet always sits on the cautious side when granting Dutch citizenship. It's an irreversible step, unless it's accusing itself of terrorism. Of course, we have recently passed a law on this. It is difficult to indicate the size of the group of young people from 12 and under 16, i.e. from 12 to 15, which is covered, because it is not registered. In the category just above, 16 and 17 years old, in 2016 the Dutchmanship was withheld from nineteen young people. The group from 12 to 15 of course covers a larger age cohort, so it is larger in total. But since crime is usually lower in this category, we do not expect the group in this category to exceed this order of magnitude, that of 19. Mrs Bikker asks me to understand in what way we make the Netherlands or the world safer if we do not naturalize them at that age. I think that really has something to do with what I said earlier: of course, you can only judge afterwards whether you should have intervened at that time. So if someone goes wrong at 13 and then behaves neatly, it has only been a postponement of naturalization and there is no problem. The other way around, I can't do it anymore. When you say to a 13-year-old person "we don't count" who naturalizes as a child and then turns out to be a long career of crime, you have already forgiven the Dutchmanship and you can't say that it's only open to people, even young people, who agree with that. Let me now turn to the questions about the refugees. Why not a shorter period for refugees, after five years? Is that contrary to the Refugee Convention, which requires us to facilitate? Facilitating, as the Chamber has seen in previous correspondence, we really see lowering practical obstacles to the process itself. We see no obligation there to grant Dutch citizenship as soon as possible after arrival. In any case, I would not want to do that, because, of course, you still have a period of right of residence when it is for a certain period of time. If peace should hopefully return to the country of origin, people have enjoyed temporary protection in our country and do not move on to permanent establishment and integration. That is why I believe that you do not have to give refugees a different term than others and that seven years is a good time. We facilitate that through lower fees and the cancellation of the loan for the citizenship diploma. We also have other methods to facilitate refugees. In recent years, for example, we have speeded up the provision of language lessons and language courses by volunteers, even in azc's, in order to speed it up. Ms Stienen asked why a refugee who holds status in another EU country and goes to the Netherlands after five years, which should not count for five years. I still think that I have already said this in response to a previous question about partners "that a relationship with another EU Member State is not the same as a relationship with the Netherlands. I think you should stay in the Netherlands for seven years, starting from the day of establishment. Apparently, they do not want to be naturalised in that other EU Member State, and I do not think that this is only due to an enormous love for the Netherlands, where they are already integrated at a distance. I think you should start counting from the moment they settle in the Netherlands. There was also a question about deadlines, about a request being processed after five years and naturalisation after six years, and whether this will be the case when the deadline has been extended to seven years. A request for naturalisation can be submitted after five years of admission main residence and the treatment period is one year, but usually the IND can decide more quickly. In practice, seven to nine months after the request is lodged with the municipality, a decision is taken on that request, i.e. on average seven to nine months after the date of application. The new deadline will also apply for an application after seven years and that naturalisation can actually take place after seven years and seven to nine months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u204	These are the facts or interpretation of the law by the Secretary of State. So that actually means that we are going from an extension of the naturalisation period to almost eight years, because then someone will get Dutch citizenship. My question to the Secretary of State was what is the reason that people cannot initiate that process earlier. Before that, they are already working on the naturalisation process and then they could in any case get it after seven years, following the Secretary of State's reasoning that these two years are effective in promoting integration. It's getting longer. Wouldn't it be nice if people really had the Dutch passport after seven years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u205	That's the way our law works. The five-year period shall run from the date of submission of the request. If you extend it from five to seven, you will. We should have extended it to six if the purpose was to allow the naturalisation ceremony to take place after seven or almost seven years. So these are calculated effects. I don't think it's unreasonable for you to start the naturalization process after seven years. It's not like it's suddenly shifting over two years because of this law. A shift from five to seven means it's two years later than it is now. It was five and a little bit and then it gets seven a little bit. That's the system of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u206	In my view, it is the interpretation of the law and the way in which the law has been introduced or is now working. Rather than talking about a little longer ago, it was possible to submit a request earlier than the naturalisation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u207	The cabinet really aims to extend the current practice by two years and not to say "five to seven" and five and a bit to cat to seven plane. It's just a two-year extension. How we implement the law now is after five years of filing, which is after seven years of filing. I don't see any reason to adapt to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u208	The Secretary of State comes up with a number of practical examples of facilitating refugees. The Refugee Convention speaks explicitly of'sustaining', and that really does happen in the long term. I have also indicated that, for stateless persons, we are holding the three-year deadline on the basis of the same basic argument that can also apply to refugees, namely that they cannot go back to their own country. The question is: why the four-year gap between stateless persons and refugees? How can that be argued? Five years ago, they had a license for an indefinite period of time. So it wasn't about temporary protection. Well, that could be a quick one, wouldn't it? That you're going to keep it to five for them compared to seven years for others? You're not gonna get away with saying yes, but we're doing something about graduation or that sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u209	Actually, that was my intention. If you reduce the time limit for refugees, it will also, of course, speed up and facilitate them. It is now being improved that it should be shorter or no longer allowed at the time of signing the Convention. Then, of course, depending on where the country was standing when it signed, it becomes an arbitrary matter which involves speeding up. Treaties allow for a period of up to ten years. I think there is indeed a difference between stateless persons and refugees. Refugees cannot return to their country of origin and stateless citizens have no country of origin of which they are nationals. That's a big difference. Because statelessness is an undesirable situation, we have done that faster process. In addition, we take advantage of the fact that people are not ready for integration. That is the choice between two undesirable things, namely that after three years someone is not there or that someone is out of state. We have all said that we want to counter this. So I wouldn't want to extend the exception to the rule for stateless people to non-state refugees. Then there are the questions about the commitments about customization when establishing Dutch expats; let me just mention them because that is how the question was asked. We have just had a discussion about the naturalization of partners of Dutch people who live, work and live abroad. Of course, we have also seen that, regardless of naturalization, there is a bump or stumbling block with the resource requirement. That's what the letter of 23 February was about. That is therefore subject to foreign law. If a Dutch expat wants to return to the Netherlands with the foreign partner, a resource requirement is required. If the non-Dutch expat has not managed to settle a sustainable income, for example a contract of employment for at least one year, then the individual circumstances will be assessed, so tailor-made, whether that resource requirement can be exempted from. So that is also an answer to Mrs Oomen's question: can you provide customization in the resource requirement for expats while three years are included in the Naturalization Act? Yes. I also intend to continue to do so. I would also like to inform your Chamber about the effects of this and therefore see whether we can perpetuate this customization without unwanted foreign legal consequences. I would like to look at whether the individual cases that come back in the customisation may give rise to more comprehensive policies. I'd like to send that to your room. So you don't want people in the situation where they have a torn-up family. So you want a solution that allows people to come to the Netherlands to live and then have three years before they naturalize. It is possible to shape that together. We do customization there. I would be happy to map that out and keep your Chamber informed of how that is going. I also have no doubt that your Chamber will inform me or my successor of individual cases where the customisation would not have been delivered enough, and that we will look at how big the problem is, how many times it occurs and whether we see a pattern in which you should actually make policy so that it is more predictable and familiar to the expat abroad. Mrs Bikker had another question about the phenomenon of one in seven refugees passing through another country after naturalisation. That is indeed true when people have been given protected status in a country that apparently is not their desired country of future. We see that in the Netherlands with certain groups of people who want to go to England very badly. If there's ever another Brexit, that might change, too. That's where we see that pattern. It's hard to do anything about that. It will now take longer to make that choice. During that time of course they also have the opportunity to build a band with the Netherlands. I simply see this as part of the free movement of persons as we have arranged in the Netherlands. If one is a Dutchman, one has these rights, whether one is a Union citizen, originally as a Dutchman or as a Dutchman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u210	I think it is rather short-sighted that the Secretary of State says: there is little we can do about it. It is about willingness to do something about it, precisely by taking stricter measures in front of it. As has been said, this can be done, for example, by setting a ten-year deadline, by making real tough demands on those who come in here and who do not and, if necessary, by withdrawing passports and double passports; I hope that we will get a response to that in a moment. We can at least take tough measures at the front, because this hopping of lucky seekers is what is actually happening: one is coming from one country to another.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is why, as has been said on many occasions, the best measure is, in fact, to limit such developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u211	You can, of course, reverse the free movement of persons, Schengen and the free establishment between EU Member States. This prevents certain migrants with a status in Germany from going to the Netherlands after a number of years. This also prevents many Dutch people from living and working in other EU Member States. Well, that's the price. You also prevent migrants who have a protected status in the Netherlands but want to leave for England, Germany or another country. So it's not like you can say that it only has advantages. I have indicated that we now see that once people, like you and I, are EU citizens, they have the opportunity to settle in other EU countries as well. We also see many people leaving the Netherlands again because there is that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u212	To conclude, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u213	The crux belongs to the term "once," "if so." It is precisely a matter of ensuring that it does not come to that. It is therefore really important to take stricter measures at the front. Once again, the appeal to this Secretary of State is to come up with a proposal to simply lay down stricter measures at the front so that it becomes less easy to enter under any circumstances and abuse the Netherlands for such fortunate activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u214	I take this as a call from the PVV to prevent refugees who once have a status in the Netherlands from leaving the country. I'm gonna have to get used to that. We are now making it harder to become Dutch. That's a threshold. Whether people from another Member State can then go to the Netherlands if they have acquired the nationality of that Member State, I cannot, of course, influence this law. I can, however, in a broader sense, ensure that the whole of Europe is, after all, firmly convinced that this is more effective than if the Netherlands were to gain better control over the external borders. Then, of course, we will have another discussion, which I am happy to have but which is a little out of the order of this bill. I think that the law now before us is a tightening-up in the field of naturalisation and also creates an additional requirement for the possibility of coming to the Netherlands from non-Dutch partners, precisely in the direction that Mr Van Hattem also wants. But I think it will be more often that the distance we go in that direction between Mr Van Hattem and this cabinet continues to differ.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u215	Mr Van Hattem, I had just said: finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u216	Yes, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to respond to the fact that words are being put in my mouth that I have not used. It's not about people not leaving here. No, we just need to stop them from coming in here with the wrong intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u217	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem also asked how full participation can be reconciled with the possibility of dual nationality. The question underneath is: does a dual nationality by definition mean that you cannot participate fully? I do not think so, just as there are, unfortunately, people with a single nationality who escape the norms and values of society and leave little room for them, even though they really only have the Dutch passport. Multiple nationality arises in most cases by having parents of different nationalities, and to a lesser extent after naturalisation, but it is not excluded. A dual nationality can therefore be an indication, but it is not necessarily, just as a single nationality does not rule out the existence of a contrary loyalty to another country, to another culture or to a set of values that does not necessarily relate to our own. Mr Van Hattem asked about the enforcement of this law on the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. The National Law is also partly implemented by the IND. Naturalisation requests from foreigners on the islands are also assessed by the IND. Option requests from foreigners on the islands are assessed by the governor for Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten and for the BES islands by the IND. In this way we can ensure that this law is enforced there too. We exchanged questions about participation at the beginning of the debate. Ms Nooren asked to monitor the impact of the bill on integration and participation. We have not provided any policy instruments for this, other than the existing ones, which are actually designed to measure this. I believe that, on the basis of new measurements made by the relevant authorities, we are also getting an idea of the effects of this law. We didn't provide separate monitoring. Mr President, I will be ready unless I am informed that I have skipped questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u218	Mrs. Wezel is already taking action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u219	Yes, chairman, I thought my name starts with a W, so the answers are still coming. I still miss the answer to five questions. Actually, there are more, but I'm gonna limit myself to five. The first one. The analysis suggested that an extension of the naturalisation period would result in a reduction in the economic integration of migrants, by eroding the added value of naturalisation. How is this compatible with the other agreement in the government agreement, namely that rapid integration is being promoted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u220	You're not going to explain all five of them in detail, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u221	Do you want me to tell you where they are? Or does the Secretary of State have them with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u222	My impression is that I have touched on the subjects of these questions in various interruptions, particularly at the beginning of this debate, and have mentioned the opinion of the cabinet on them. If the President wishes, I would like to answer them point by point, but I do not have a list of five outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u223	Shall we see if it can be dealt with in the second term? Is that okay, Mrs. Wezel? I think it's useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u224	It would be nice if I could get the answers to my questions. I now have the feeling that the questions have not been dealt with. I didn't ask any questions. I'd appreciate it if the Secretary of State could take the questions seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u225	I do not really want to answer this because, of course, I cannot say no and I would imply with a yes that I had not taken them seriously so far. I was under the assumption of having done so, but apparently in a form that Mrs Wezel does not appreciate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u226	Anything else you'd like to say, Mrs. Wezel?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u227	In any case, I would like to ask a question, if you will allow me. The SP Group would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether the social effects of a reduction and an extension of the naturalisation period have been passed on by the CPB. If so, would the Secretary of State be able to provide this information to this Chamber? If not, would the Secretary of State still like this transfer to be carried out by the CPB?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u228	The answer to that is: we don't have them. So I can't send them either. I also did not intend to ask for a transfer because, as I mentioned at the beginning of my contribution, we are discussing a subject that is not in the category that it is all predictable, known and predefined in its effects and outcomes. Of course, it is not the case that now everyone naturalizes after five years. To illustrate how complicated it is: for example, there are also people who now naturalize after six, seven or eight years, because they do not meet the requirements after five years. For them, this change of law will have no impact. For others, yes. The fact that one is not naturalized does not mean that one cannot work. The predictability and awareness of the effects of this law on such effects of second and third order cannot be determined in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u229	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u230	You were ready, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u231	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u232	Good. Then I'll suspend the meeting until dinner break. Then let's move on to the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u233	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal Amendment of the National Law on the Netherlands to extend the time-limits for granting Dutch citizenship and any other amendments (33852 (R2023)). I see the Secretary of State standing up. What is the meaning of that, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u234	Mr President, I would like to ask you, with apologies and despite the fact that you had asked three times if I had answered all the questions, to allow me to answer a first-term unanswered question, which required some research, so that Members can take that into account in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u235	I'll take a look around the room. Is the Chamber okay with that? The room is in agreement. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was about Mr Nagel's questions. He also referred to a high verdict. We had to find out. Mr Nagel's first question was whether the fees were too high. They're lower than the cost. So it's not a cost-covering rate. We're gonna do it. We are asking for a contribution, and that is part of the real cost. His other question was about the decisions in individual cases, whereby municipalities were agreed which had not been financed by the special assistance. In no way does that mean a categorical statement that this type of cost should not be financed by the municipality from the special assistance. That's just their policy space. They can do that. It seems to me wise, now that I have this signal from Mr Nagel, that I am going to talk to the VNG to make it clear to them that the statements made in individual cases do not work that in any case the municipality should not be reimbursed for the costs of the special assistance. Because that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u237	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u238	Madam President. It was a bit of a heated debate at times. I sometimes had the impression that we didn't understand each other. Sometimes we also played a little hide-and-seek. I want to come back to two parts. First, the five to seven years. I said on behalf of the CDA Group in the first term that every number of years is arbitrary. Is five years better? It could be. Why not eight years? That is what I asked for in the written preparation of this debate. Everything's arbitrary. Last year, I believe, there were 23,000 people who received Dutch citizenship. So it's not about big numbers. But everything is arbitrary. I said: if one thinks that seven years is better, that was finally a political agreement within the current cabinet, in the previous coalition agreement, we are prepared to support it. Then there is the second part, which I have made quite a point of and for which, with your permission, Mr President, I have occasionally been on the interrupting microphone. The Secretary of State said there's no policy for expats. No, there's no policy for expats, but of course we have policies. This policy is based on two EU directives: the first for EU citizens and the second for third-country nationals. I did a little more checking, so I only ate half of it, and then I saw that all EU citizens and their families are entitled to stay in the Netherlands, regardless of the issue of a residence permit. Provided they are regarded as workers, jobseekers or self-employed, if they have sufficient means of subsistence. Members of the family of EU citizens have the same rights if they are EU citizens themselves. However, if an EU citizen is married to a third-country national, he has in fact the same rights as the Union citizen. This means that they do not have to burgeon as such before they come to the Netherlands. But our discussion was about having it less easy at the time of stay, because, if you have always lived with a third-country national abroad, you are less easily able to meet the income requirement that one has to meet. Now, in the context of family reunification, the Secretary of State has made a commitment, which I shall return to. A large number of statements have also been made about the flexibility of resources to meet income requirements. The last statement was on April 6, 2017, where it was noted that, even though you have no income but enough savings, you can also count 4% interest on your savings with your partner, taking into account the relaxation of that condition, on family reunification. Because according to the very strict requirements as there were at first, that was not possible. Mr. Chairman. In fact, we may not have exchanged that clearly enough.... we are talking about what problem we are solving for these Dutch expats. For those Dutch expats, or for those Dutch who are married to third-country nationals, we don't solve anything. We just have to be very honest about that. We're weighing down the demands. But why are we weighing down the demands? The demands are increased because, when it comes to Dutch naturalized people, we do not want if they do not speak the language, we can still look for a bride to marry with, and then because of the fact that the bride is married to a Dutchman, without any additional requirement in the Netherlands get the same rights. Okay, Chairman, that means an increase for a Dutchman with a third-country national. I admit that. The Secretary of State gave a good answer to a question from the PVV Group: you need treatment at the same time. I note, if I look closely at the commitments, that you, Secretary of State, are going to offer tailor-made work for the Dutch expats from abroad in the Netherlands with a non-Dutch partner. I would also ask you to mention this in the IND's information campaigns and on the IND's website, because it is not on it right now. You have also promised to monitor how the application of the hardness clause will take effect. You are going to do that in practice and you are going to inform us about it. I ask you, on behalf of the government, to make a commitment that, when undesirable patterns become visible, you will specifically formulate new policies. If you reply in the affirmative, I am satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u239	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u240	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his first-term reply. It is clear that the highest priority must be to close the borders for mass immigration. A country without borders is not a country. A country that distributes nationality at random is not a nation. That is why it is important to take firm measures at the front, because integration of opportunistic happiness seekers is by definition an illusion. This law is therefore a small step. But stronger dikes are needed to protect our country from the asylum system, mass immigration and related Islamisation. What GroenLinks and D66 in particular advocate here is the undermining of our Dutch nation. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the reply of the Secretary of State on dual nationality and loyalty, he merely states that it may be an indication. In view of this, I would like to quote the former Moroccan Minister of Islamic Affairs, who once said at a conference on Islam in the 21st century at the University of Leiden: "Once a Moroccan Muslim, always a Moroccan Muslim. Even after generations, Moroccans in the Netherlands still need to know their Arabic and maintain their culture. They remain Moroccan subjects. Immigration must not lead to integration." What do you mean, no double loyalty? Has the Moroccan Government ever renounced this position? So once again, how can the Secretary of State reconcile full participation with double nationality, given this need for double loyalty? Mr President, so far in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u241	Thank you very much, Mr Van Hattem. I give the floor to Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u242	Yes, Madam President. My group would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions. But we are still not convinced by the Secretary of State's argument for extending the naturalization period from five to seven years. We also wonder what kind of problem it solves. My group continues to feel very uncomfortable about one of the arguments that, if I understand correctly in the written answer, but also in the answer to the questions of our colleague in the Christian Union, has been used for the possible deterrent effect of extending the naturalisation period to seven years. This could have as a possible effect that smugglers would, to a lesser extent, opt for the Netherlands as a destination for their customers. My group wonders whether that would seem to be the reason for going to seven years. How right is it to use a law to scare off, when it comes to something very important when it comes to Dutch citizenship? It is also clear that we differ whether obtaining Dutch citizenship is a step in the process of being a full citizen in our society or, as the Secretary of State says, a final piece of the integration process. For every Dutchman and also a naturalised newcomer, according to my group, the citizenship of the Netherlands is a lifelong growth process. My group therefore believes that this proposal will contribute to delaying the integration of long-term newcomers residing legally in the Netherlands. This is especially true of refugees, who are in an extra vulnerable position, because they no longer have an effective nationality that gives them protection. The question is whether the Secretary of State has really taken sufficient account of this and whether it is not possible to contribute in any way to the mobility of refugees during the period in which they actually have no way of travelling outside the Netherlands. As has been said, my group also thinks that as a non-Western partner of a Dutchman, you should not have lived continuously in the Netherlands for three years in order to get a sense of the Netherlands. In this modern world there are many opportunities to learn about Dutch society, norms and values. The requirement of three years of continuous stay presupposes that non-Dutch partners of the Dutch never visit the Netherlands, not through language lessons, partner or children have gotten to know the Dutch language and customs. If this assumption is correct, we ask the Secretary of State. Is my group aware that long-term stay in an EU country will not affect the period that a non-Dutch partner of a Dutchman who wants to become a Dutchman will have? And does that also apply to a refugee? That's a question that's been asked before. We heard the Secretary of State speak in the first term about his concerns and the prevention of abuse through marriage migration and possible import of marriage partners who have no idea of the standards and values of the Netherlands. Of course, my group shares these concerns. Yet in the answer it sounds as if all kinds of groups of non-Dutch who want to naturalize are equalized and as if a certain impression of abuse puts all other Dutch or non-Dutch people in the same booth with a Dutch partner. According to my group, this does not do justice to the many Dutch people who live and work abroad and would like to maintain a bond with the Netherlands for themselves and their families, even if they have a non-Dutch partner who wants to become Dutch to maintain that bond. My group would have liked to see a possibility of differentiation in the matter for the different groups of Dutch people who have a non-Dutch partner in this amendment. Finally, my group would like to thank the Secretary of State for her commitment, Mrs Oomen, who has already mentioned that there is a possibility of tailor-made work for certain groups of Dutch people with a non-Dutch partner who have difficulty in meeting the resource requirement. We have not yet fully understood whether he is going to announce this by means of an information campaign and how he intends to do so. From the aforementioned letter to the House of Representatives of 23 February 2017, we understood that would happen. Madam President, we await the answers of the Secretary of State to the second-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u243	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u244	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Secretary of State for his honest and open way of replying. We very much appreciate this openness, even if his current assessment makes different conclusions than those of the written answers, such as being supported by research into the added value of extending the naturalisation period. Participation and integration are a gradual process, as the Secretary of State also said. The Secretary of State and my group agree on that. All the groups in this Chamber also consider it important that there are conditions for obtaining Dutch citizenship. The responsibility for this lies, of course, with the people who come to our country, but my group believes that we too, as cohabitants of this country, and certainly the government, have an important responsibility in it. How does the Secretary of State view the government's efforts to promote integration and participation? In the first part of his answer he quickly got over it. There is no evidence of which naturalisation period is most effective and no evidence of the assumption that seven years is better than five years. There is no knowledge of the relationship between integration and naturalisation, which could be the basis of this legislative proposal. The same applies to the special situation of refugees and the effect that the extension of the naturalisation period will have. The PvdA Group considers it very important that the people who come to our country should be treated equally. We support the Secretary of State's approach, for example, not to distinguish between types of people in the reunification of families. Equal treatment must be ensured. There should be no different requirements. With the bill before us, the deadline for naturalization remains arbitrary, whether it is five or seven years. That makes it, as the Secretary of State says, a political choice. The PvdA Group believes that you should only change the naturalisation period if you are sure that this will lead to better integration and participation. As the Secretary of State said, there's no evidence of that right now. What we disagree with the Secretary of State is how you look at the relationship between naturalization and integration and what is a reasonable period of naturalisation. This bill argues that people receiving Dutch citizenship are going to participate more, but our conclusion is that this bill does not improve integration. It only takes longer for someone to become Dutch. On this point, the Secretary of State has not been able to convince us. On one point, my group has another question. The Secretary of State does not conduct a specific study on the impact of this bill on participation and integration. He does refer to other studies that may be carried out. But do these studies clarify whether the legislative proposal contributes to what it aims to achieve, namely that people participate fully in society? What does it mean that the Secretary of State is not going to do any additional research to get a better view of this, so that he may be able to say more informed about a reasonable or logical period for naturalisation in a subsequent debate, and it is more than just a political choice? We await the answers of the Secretary of State in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u245	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I give the floor to Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has not answered the questions of the SP Group. That means he doesn't think it's important enough to answer the questions or he doesn't have an answer to the questions. I guess I'll take that second one as my starting point. I conclude that, as in the written consultation, the Secretary of State cannot provide any further arguments for the legislative proposal. This bill is a political compromise between the coalition partners, for which no further arguments can be put forward. However, this bill contains a number of real deteriorations for people who want to become Dutch. That is why the SP Group cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u247	Thank you, Mrs Wezel. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u248	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, because he has indeed replied very clearly and very consistently to the comments made here. To a large extent, I agree with his approach, at least on the first point: the extension of the naturalisation period from five to seven years. The Secretary of State says very strongly about this: that is a political choice; there is little to prove here. I think that is indeed the case. You don't have a lot of evidence for that. But I still feel that a seven-year period cannot really contribute to the integration of the people involved. Perhaps a five-year term could do better, but it remains a matter of feeling and there is little to prove. I'll keep it at five years. The other point, the three-year obligation for spouses or registered partners of Dutch people to move to the Netherlands, is perhaps something more to say. As a result of Mrs Oomen's second term, it might be thought that the Secretary of State's promise to provide tailor-made work with regard to the resource requirement will remove the sting from the problem. But that is not the case as far as I am concerned. As I said earlier in an interruption, it is a matter of principle for me to say that when someone is married to a Dutchman or is a registered partner of that kind, within this family relationship there is the right to jointly choose one national basis, which can also be found in Dutch citizenship. In a number of cases, this is made impossible by the requirement to live here. The term "import brides" has already been used in this context. Indeed, it could be an obstacle for people to agree to that general three-year term of marriage or partnership. It could tend to create additional barriers to this. I wonder in how many cases that actually occurs. And if it occurs, then I also wonder whether you should consider this as an abuse of the scheme or whether you should accept this as the natural course of events, which is included in this case. So in this case, too, I do not share the Secretary of State's conclusion that it is justified to create so many additional obstacles to something that is a completely natural phenomenon for me. Finally. This does not really have to do with this bill, but I would just like to point out that part of my first contribution was specifically intended to indicate that I object to the fact that we have so much difficulty with dual citizenship. I don't think that's good for the people who feel connected to a state or a nation. I think we should be more tolerant about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u249	Thank you very much, Mr Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State for his clear answer and also for his honesty that this bill is mainly a political choice, because that is what he called this bill. With regard to all the questions relating to the substance of the case, he has usefully said: that is a technocratic argument. That immediately sounds very boring, but sometimes boring is also very exciting and also very good. Because what he's sensitive to, that technocratic argument, he doesn't think there is. And that disappoints me, I would have expected more from the cabinet in that respect. But the Secretary of State simply states that there is no research that shows more about the impact of the naturalisation period on better or worse integration. He then says something: the longer one is out there, the more bonding one gets. Yeah, who could deny that? You'll become furniture one day. But that could also be a plea to use ten years of the European Convention as a deadline for at least the European Convention. That makes me prefer to look at what works. What ensures good integration? It is then clear from the studies that the first years are the most important ones. The cabinet is not aware of this proposal, and my group regrets that. Much is not yet to be seen, says the Secretary of State. But is he gonna follow it now, and how? Otherwise, another arbitrary change is possible in a number of years, such a political choice. Especially since the Secretary of State calls it democratic. Changing majorities can lead to a shift in the time period within the Treaties. I also feel with the Secretary of State, but I do say 'within the Treaties' and point to Article 34, Refugee Convention, for the position of refugees. I would like to hear the Secretary of State more specifically about "accelerating the naturalisation period." I have heard a lot about facilitating and reading a lot about it, but not about the word "sustaining." Can he go into that further? Let me briefly touch on a few other points. One in seven people who are naturalized travels through. This is the basis of the Secretary of State, which he sees as an achievement of the EU. My group regrets this and would have liked to have looked into the reasons for this, especially in relation to the Brexit. Because that may also mean something in that respect. It is precisely if the Secretary of State wishes to pursue a good policy on this issue that I think it is important that the Cabinet should keep that in mind. As for the expats, I have expressed the concern that only good expats can still marry. I welcome the commitment that the Secretary of State wants to offer tailor-made services. That's a bit shady, because that's not what the law says. I wonder how it works out. At the same time, I can agree with Mr Ten Hoeve, who has clearly said something about the importance of a family. Well, chairman, you know us as a real family party, so we share that. Finally. Unfortunately, the political choice presented by the Secretary of State is not supported by substantive arguments but remains a feeling. The fraction of the Christian Union does not see how we can better fill in the two-year period that is being added. Integration needs to be improved. Yes, I totally agree, but it has to be from the beginning, and unfortunately this bill is not the key to that. Since it is a missionary cabinet, I do not think it is reasonable to invent and tell all sorts of things about it now. I can imagine that in a future period we will change that either with this Secretary of State or with his successor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u251	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u252	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Secretary of State, who has been in office for only two and a half years, as far as we are concerned, as an established ruler in this Binnenhof. He told me the fees were lower than the charges. I understand that, but what matters is: high or not, it must be affordable for those who are interested and entitled to it. However, I would like the Secretary of State to go into a little more detail as to whether, at the heart of the matter, it is not important for anyone who wants to be naturalized that it is financially feasible, that he can call on the assistance and that the rights and benefits on the other hand I mentioned them in my speech in the first term, I am not going to repeat it, because it is sufficient to say: yes, in principle it should be possible. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has said that there should be no category policy that makes that impossible and that he will contact us further. I welcome the initiative and thank him for this answer. Then the issue is five versus seven years. I mentioned the examples in the reply. The Secretary of State says: they're just some examples; it could also be talking to the neighbors or whatever. But they're illustrations. If you want to convince people, you come up with the strongest, most impressive examples. We didn't see it or hear it. That is why the following two questions are particularly important. What would be the consequences if this law were not accepted? Then what goes less well and what goes wrong? What are the disadvantages of Dutch society? Have the Secretary of State put that down compactly again. And the other way around: if the law is passed, what can be proven to be better and how can we perceive and observe it? The 50PLUS Group is curious about the content and persuasiveness of the State Secretary's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u253	Thank you very much, Mr Nagel. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. He's pretty clear, I can't say otherwise. He says: this is politics, this is my political preference. And passing on, he admits without a doubt that the cabinet sees naturalization as a final piece and no longer as a policy tool to bring migrants, foreigners, further into the integration process. It is therefore a reward, and with it the Secretary of State, distances this cabinet from a decades of tradition, takes the starting point of using naturalization to help people to participate fully and thus to further their integration. My group believes that this is a reckless way of dealing with integration and naturalisation policies. We fear the consequences. We have not only pointed this out, but many advisory bodies have already pointed it out. We also think it is somewhat reckless that there should be a response to this without too many arguments, in fact shoulder-picking. Those consequences will come and will be very difficult to reverse. That is actually a bit contrary to the fact that the cabinet and many politicians consider integration to be so important. Then why do we throw away an instrument or not use it to improve integration? This is linked to the following question to the Secretary of State. Does he actually recognise that the cabinet has distanced itself from the idea that integration is a two-way process? Look at the privatisation, the self-financing of integration education, the sanctions and now this. What role does the government still see for itself in this whole integration process? It has been said by many people: five or seven years is arbitrary, random. However, I would like to point out that the current five-year period is, of course, in line with the integration examination, with the acquisition of an indefinite residence permit and the residence permit for long-term residents. There is an idea behind the current system. If you believe in integration policy, in the integration exam, then you also assume that people can integrate fully. This raises my question about which the Secretary of State asked for an explanation, namely what happened to EU citizens. My question was, and still is, the following. EU citizens are not required to become citizens. They may live here for years, but we don't have an instrument to force them to pass the integration exam, but we do if they start naturalizing. That was my question. By slowing it down, we are actually giving EU citizens two years longer the opportunity to live here without citizens. Don't we cut our fingers with that? Maybe the Secretary of State can say something about that after all. I have a question about the expats, also in connection with what Mrs Oomen said about them. We now have a commitment that we will be informed about how that individual assessment will work out. I had also asked in my first term how this individual assessment is actually being carried out. What is the review framework? What is involved in this individual assessment? How does the Secretary of State prevent legal inequality between one expat and the other returning to the Netherlands? Finally, I would like to mention the precarious situation of refugees. Treaty law has a duty to speed up naturalisation, as Mrs Bikker pointed out. This also means that treaty loyalty requires countries not to be further removed from that duty to accelerate naturalisation. We do. We are extending the deadline rather than shortening it. Refugees really are in a different position. They don't have the freedom to return. I mentioned the comparison with stateless persons, who cannot return either. I am not asking for a three-year period for refugees, but for the five-year period to be maintained, taking into account precisely their particular precarious situation. In that context, I would like to table a motion. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Wezel, Mr Overbeek, Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Meijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Article 34 of the Refugee Convention obliges to facilitate and accelerate naturalisation for refugees;]] [[Whereas the present legislative proposal also extends the naturalisation period from five to seven years for refugees;]] [[Whereas this extension may adversely affect the integration of refugees;]] [[Whereas an evaluation of the Court's Integration Act shows that the integration of refugees requires additional support;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to optimise the integration of refugees and to examine their contribution to the duration of the naturalisation period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33852-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u255	I understand that the Secretary of State may no longer be able to carry out this motion. We're gonna have to check that out. The motion is, of course, addressed to the government. As far as I am concerned, the new cabinet is also continuing with this policy. Finally, the Secretary of State would like to thank him for his cooperation over the last two and a half years. A positive opinion on this motion would perhaps be a nice farewell gesture that can confirm cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u256	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. We have arrived at the second term of office of the Secretary of State. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u257	Madam President, thank you very much. Let me begin with Mrs Oomen's contribution, in which she stated my commitment. For the sake of time, I will not repeat it, but I confirm that that was indeed my commitment as I stated it in the first term. I will keep your Chamber informed of the progress of the execution. Mr Van Hattem spoke of a small good step, but he still had a question about double nationality. He asked me for a response to a Moroccan minister's statement: "Once a Moroccan, always a Moroccan." That's on him. He speaks for himself or perhaps on behalf of the Moroccan Government. He does not speak for Dutch, nor for Dutch of Moroccan origin. That feeling will vary from one person to another. We also have very good examples in the Netherlands of people of Moroccan descent who are fully dedicated to serving the Dutch public cause, to a mayor's post. So I see no reason to assume that one statement by a Moroccan minister has a disastrous effect on them. I would, of course, prefer to be able to renounce Moroccan nationality, but unfortunately the influence and power of this cabinet does not extend that far. Mrs Stienen spoke about information. She asked us to make this known via, for example, websites. They're being adapted now, and I don't mean "tonight" by "now." Let me put it this way: they are adapting them. This information will therefore be available so that people who are in this situation and who are informed know what the standard rule is and also that there are possibilities for customization. Mrs Stienen also asked if I suppose that this means that partners of Dutch people, while they are not in the Netherlands or short or with holidays or holidays, have no knowledge of the Netherlands at all. Well, I won't say that. I just think that this is something different than staying in Dutch society for a long time. I also think that we can ask people that question if they want to become fully Dutch. Mrs Stienen also mentioned what we said in the reply on the choice of smugglers for countries of destination. We need to see that in the context in which that remark was made. This was also in the context of another subject that has been raised more often, namely the transit, which means that people choose a country. This has to do with the UK in particular. So after the Brexit we have to see that. Then that route will no longer exist, but we simply know that there is a preference for the United Kingdom, especially for certain origins. The United Kingdom has the geographical phenomenon of being an island, making it difficult to reach. In addition to attempts to directly reach the United Kingdom to apply for asylum there, there are arguments for not taking all kinds of dangerous actions in Calais or Hoek van Holland, for example, but first seeking asylum in a particular country with the sole aim of naturalising and moving on to the United Kingdom as quickly as possible. In that context, the question is how pleasant it is in that country in the years that you stay there in anticipation, to put it bluntly, a factor to base your choice on. The same goes for the question of how long you have to stay there. In that context, it is true that at five years you are more attractive than at seven years. But I do not expect this to have a deterrent effect on human trafficking in the case of refugees seeking protection in the Netherlands. Mrs Nooren also asked a question about the investigation and conclusion. She asked why we're not doing any more research. I've been thinking about how you should design such an investigation. Because then, except for this, nothing should change. For example, you should keep all other integration policy aspects equal, because otherwise, of course, you cannot see what is happening and what is happening through something else. Now I am not negotiating and if I did, I wouldn't say anything about it, but given the feeling of many parties in both Chambers, I wouldn't be surprised if in the coming years there is a need to change some of the other aspects that affect the integration effect. Then, of course, you would no longer be able to measure exactly what is the result of this law alone, in isolation. I think that we should look more broadly at the effects of this change in the law that the cabinet hopes for and any other changes in the future. You will then have to look at whether this has resulted in an improvement on balance and whether you can distill which factors affected it. In addition to the poetic statement that boring is also very exciting, I'm going to think about it on the way home. Mrs Bikker asked how I can explain that we are complying with the Refugee Convention when we are talking about accelerating naturalisation. Speeding up the procedure is particularly important. You should not set unnecessary thresholds and you should make sure that it does not take unnecessarily long. It's an effort obligation anyway. Then, in my view, I can't have an effect on the naturalization period. This would mean that there would be a relative provision in such a treaty which would mean that each contracting party would have to do so more quickly than at that time. There are already many variations in the naturalisation periods of Contracting Parties. So I don't see that speeding up means you can't extend the deadline. You can only not set unnecessary thresholds in the once-on-all procedure. In the first period, I have indicated the ways in which we facilitate this. In addition, for refugees, for example, we do not have a longer procedure than for others. Mr Ten Hoeve mentioned the aspect of family formation. I agree with him that we should not hinder family formation. I think it is quite possible to arrange first for family formation in the Netherlands, where the commitment to tailor-made work is, of course, seen as a matter of course, and that all members of the family can be naturalized after the family has lived in the Netherlands for a number of years. So I do not think this should stand in the way of family formation. Mr Ten Hoeve also wondered about marital partners and numbers. It may have been a rhetorical question, but I have understood it as being interested in the answer. We cannot indicate in how many cases that procedure has been abused, but the submission of requests from the marital partner from abroad in the Netherlands is in the order of 90, 140 and 50 in the years. We try to hinder improper use and improper effects that inhibit integration. Mrs Strik said that integration and integration have a two-sided aspect. It's hard to imagine a situation where it doesn't go both ways. If a society offers no opportunity at all for anyone to join or integrate, the other can still work so hard, but then of course it never becomes something. That is different from what I think that when people come from one culture to another, one must adapt as much as the other. I'm not in favour of that. Integration and integration have a two-sided aspect, but it is primarily the responsibility of those involved themselves to integrate and integrate. And I do not think it is wrong that, in exchange for this integration, more rights can be granted step by step. The Netherlands is the strongest right we have in this respect, so I think it is not surprising that these demands are being made and that it takes a while before you can join that highest order, to put it that way. Mrs Strik asked if we would not give EU citizens the opportunity to remain unintegrated for longer. That question presupposes that there is a naturalization obligation. In that case, you could say you have to after five years. Now you're not. The benevolent EU citizen who comes to the Netherlands and wants to settle in can simply start with that and can be awarded Dutch citizenship two years later. Anyone who wants to be here, who wants to work and stay here but who doesn't want to settle in, can choose never to apply for naturalization. So I don't see any incentive for someone to be on-the-job any longer. There's no obstacle to getting started right away. Mr Nagel had a number of questions about the fee. I agree with him that the argument that the costs charged are lower than the costs incurred does not necessarily have to be convincing or reassuring. It does indicate that in our policy, in which the idea of cost security is standard, we have distanced ourselves from it in order not to create insurmountable financial obstacles for people who want to naturalize and to make that possible. As has already been said, the municipality must be able to do so in principle and must be able to benefit from special assistance. That does not, of course, alter the fact that I can also imagine that such an appeal may sometimes be rejected, because the municipality finds that the person claiming special assistance for his expenses must be regarded as in a position to pay those costs. In such a case, this can lead to a trial and also to a rejection and to the equalization of the municipality. This does not mean, of course, that it should be deduced that municipalities should never do so or should never have to do so if that is reasonable. Along that line, I will start that conversation with the VNG. I agree in principle with Mr Nagel that there should be no obstacle in the sense that it should not be. Mr Nagel asked what would go well if the law were passed and what would not go well if the law were not passed. I think there are two sides to this approach. On the first side, I repeat, because it is also important for myself and for the cabinet. That is not so much the side of those who are going to naturalize, but the side of Dutch society that we have and how we radiate outwardly, also towards other countries, when we think that someone could acquire that highest good, Dutch citizenship. I also think that the signal we send out to each other has a positive effect on society in order to strengthen our standards and values. We also say that we are open to people from outside and to newcomers. They are not seen as threatening, as was requested in the first term. It is true that we are asking for something: if you really want to belong to us, we really want to radiate that we do not take that lightly and that it is not just a technical-legal thing, but also a symbol of our values, wherever you join. I also think that in practice this will mean that people have been able to build and build a relationship with the Netherlands for longer before they are naturalized. This will not affect some of the people. I repeat this once again, because the fact that you can naturalize after five years does not mean that everyone is entitled to it in practice. Many people are only arriving after eight years and will continue to be so in the future. But it is precisely the group that is now relatively short in the Netherlands. I think it will benefit our society that we give the Dutchmanship more time to mature, to conform to our standards and values and to become part of them before you are rewarded with the highest we have, namely the final acceptance in our midst as a Dutchman and the acquisition of Dutch citizenship. I think this is a good opportunity. I wouldn't miss those odds. There is a kind of economy in granting the privilege to become a Dutchman. I think that economy can work well for our society. If you don't, it stays the way it is. I will not say that it solves all the problems of integration. That would also be a bit ridiculous, but I do think that we are expressing that we cherish Dutch citizenship and that we are willing to grant it to others but after a clear commitment to our country, both in the qualitative demands of integration and in the time that you are here in our society and in our midst and are getting more and more of our values. That brings me to the end of the answer, apart from the assessment of the motion. It's a wonderful motion, of course. So I'm going to do my best to discourage her in the most positive way possible, because that's the bottom line. As we discussed earlier in the debate, I do not think it is unreasonable that you should also apply a seven-year period for refugees, as we do not find it unreasonable for countries around us that do so and therefore do not violate treaty rights, or for countries that do so even longer. Especially in the case of refugees who, before they left their own country, had not yet thought that they would go to the Netherlands, the time is quite fast with obtaining their status, getting used to the environment, accepting the fact that their homeland is no longer accessible because it is not safe there and then starting to integrate, language classes and work. Then a naturalization period of seven years is very reasonable. In that process, however, we provide additional material support to refugees. That you make all these efforts and then you get your ultimate crowning after five years you get a stronger status and at the earliest after seven years you also get the opportunity to apply for naturalization.In my opinion, it is certainly not a bad deal with refugees that we offer protection and shelter here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u259	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? I see that's the case. Then I propose to vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-eerstekamer-4.u260	I'm suspending the meeting pending the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
