ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Security and Justice and to give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV Group as the first speaker. Speaking time shall be four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, at Volkel Air Base, a convicted terrorist was arrested who was taking photos and videos there. He'd come in as a contractor's hire force. This isn't a espionage movie, but this is happening in real life in our country. So there's someone out there on an air base, and that person hasn't been screened. It's also about a convicted jihadist who made footage. That's impossible, isn't it? What is the view of both ministers? What happened to the footage? What conclusions can be drawn? The Secretary of Defense wrote to the Chamber that people like Volkel could come to places that don't belong there at all. "Protecting interests" is called the classification and grade 4 of it is the lowest degree. So these people aren't screened when they come to such a place when they have to work there. Is the Minister prepared to put this right immediately? Is it the most important question to adapt this and also to have everyone screened at TBB-4? If the AIVD is too busy, turn on the STIVD. With Islam as an enemy, we cannot take any risk for the safety of our country. What about other functions relating to the safety of people and objects such as airports, police, security services, the military, the security of the Chamber, the security of ministries, you name it? Are there any convicted or convicted jihadists or, for example, people who have links with the Muslim Brotherhood who can access sensitive information? I'd like a clear answer. Is the Minister prepared to extend screening for government staff in sensitive positions by examining closely links with, for example, the Muslim Brotherhood? Then a small sidestep, excuse me, sidestep, we are sitting in the Dutch parliament about the vog system, the explanation of behaviour. That could also be a problem. It is technically possible for a convicted jihadist to get a vog after a number of years. That's why we need to screen harder. We have to be careful. In London, the brother of one of the perpetrators of the London Bridge attack recently received funding to counter radicalisation. You can't think of anything crazier. On behalf of my group, I would like to know how much subsidy in the Netherlands goes to Islamic organisations and to family members of jihadists. Is that familiar? If not, why isn't that known? We have to know that, don't we? Is the Minister prepared to stop or help to stop this type of subsidies if they are distributed at a lower level? This debate has come about because more has happened recently in the field of security, not only on Volkel, but also outside the field of defence. There was a jihadist there on Volkel. There were left-wing activists in the same year who broke in and could do their thing for five-quarters of an hour. And there's a jihadist in Syria who was trained by our Dutch army. There is a growing security problem. See Eindhoven and Amsterdam last weekend. I have some questions about that. Can the Minister explain exactly what the terms used by our police mean "unwell" or "unwelcome"? When can these terms be used in communication? What exactly is the background to the term "unwell"? Why did the unsub's search take place when there was only a suspicion of "welcome"? There are dozens of very good security cameras around the central station in Amsterdam. Why were they misset, as we could read in the message, so they didn't record anything? Yesterday there was something to read on Twitter, but that tweet was removed by the NS. Have the footage the NS appears to have already been accessed by the police and, if so, what came out of it? We very much want to see the events in Amsterdam last weekend not concern terrorism, so let us be clear, even more so, that we do not want terrorism at all. But the communication by the police I'm almost done, Chairman............................................................................................................................................................ Around this event we want total clarification of the cabinet, not a pre-cooked communication strategy. The public has a right to facts. I have one last sentence. We must do everything we can to protect our country. Is the Minister prepared to accept our recommendations? Because we can draw one conclusion: the eye of the needle gets blocked once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr De Graaf, Mrs Belhaj has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	I don't know if it's going to be a question. Of course, everyone is free to ask for a debate on something he sees as urgent. That's what we're here for tonight. I am a little surprised that we are now going to talk about Amsterdam in total randomness. At least I haven't prepared for that now. I'm sorry about that. But you've probably thought about it intelligently and consciously chosen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	I'd be happy to answer that. In the request for the debate, several colleagues in the Chamber said that there is much more going on than Volkel alone, that there has been and is happening more. I have focused a great deal of my input on Volkel, and I have asked very specific questions about this, including with a view to adjusting screening. I have taken up a bit of topicality because it concerns security and the Minister of Security and Justice is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	I now give the floor to Mr Van den Bosch. To him, it's his maiden speech. It is customary not to interrupt during a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. Let me start with this: it is a bit of a party for me to congratulate all the young people who passed their final exams from this place today. To all those who have failed, I say: persevere, next year there is another year. It's gonna be okay!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	You're looking a certain direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	No, I'm just saying it in general, for all those people watching television. I don't feel like there's people here at school. But it's nice to say it again. Mr. Chairman. When I joined the VVD years ago, it was not because of low or high taxes or a highway more or less, but because of freedom. The VVD was and is for me, even then as a boy of 18 years old, the party that, even in the seventies, sometimes opposed the tribulation, stood up for freedom and tolerance. Liberalism had everything in it for me to feel at home, although not from home. Stories and experiences I gained about the horrors of the Second World War, the division in Europe through the Iron Curtain, and the threat of the Soviet Union and communism made me who I am. Because of my upbringing and early interest in society, I went back and forth by train from Driebergen-Zeist to the Binnenhof to take a seat in the public gallery of the old conference room. What normal person does that at that age, you wonder. So me! For me, after years of many wanderings, the circle is round, and I was allowed to take my place in this place in the Lower House. That is the place where parliamentary democracy can and must express itself freely, but at a time when I, as a young father, am now concerned about the future of my children of 13 and 17. What does their future look like in Europe? Will they also receive the freedom and prosperity that I have been allowed to experience? However appropriate it is, however, to say that my maiden speech indirectly affects a subject that has to do with the great concerns that many of us are currently concerned with: the barbaric attacks on many innocent, unsuspecting people here in Europe, whether they are sitting on a terrace, publishing a journalistic magazine or going to a musical performance. It is very sad to see this. What happened in Volkel on 10 May last shows what the VVD has been saying for a long time. Although 100% safety can never be guaranteed, we must make every effort to be 100% vigilant. This has not been achieved in this case. Due to a confluence of circumstances, a person gained access to the air base, where he was absolutely not supposed to be. The VVD was shocked by this message. That is why we immediately asked written questions. After all, although we cannot say anything about his situation because of the fact that this man's case is still under court, it seems clear to us that this man had nothing to do with a military base. After all, at an earlier stage, he himself was convicted of attempting to get out of Syria. In our view, this is underlined by the fact that, after having been checked for suspicious behavior, the Marechaussee did apprehend this man. Although the procedure has not been fully followed, the Minister states that even if it had, the end result would have been the same. At the same time, it indicates that this incident gives rise to a further thorough review of the procedures. The VVD Group believes that this is very sensible. In that context, I have a number of questions for the Minister. Can the Minister state clearly what procedure has been followed when this man was appointed by the temp agency to carry out excavation work on this basis? How does something like that work? Is this person being reported to the Department of Defense? Are checks then carried out, even if he only comes to the least secure parts of the base? What happens before he's actually admitted? How is supervision arranged once he's inside? Does the Minister agree with the VVD that persons with such a background, who are potentially a major threat to national security, do not belong in a place like a military base, even if there is so-called unclassified work and thus only access to the least secure areas? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. It is important that every effort is made to keep these types of radicalised persons, who are demonstrably a threat to our security, out of the gates of military territory. As a result, the VVD would like to know how third parties are monitored and monitored at military locations and whether the existing laws and regulations on this need to be adapted. I look forward to the Minister's reply and consider tabling a motion in the second term. The VVD sees that the underlying problem is wider. We are happy to discuss them in a forthcoming debate with the cabinet on terrorism. I'm rounding up. I see the time has come for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	One hundred percent of safety can never be guaranteed, but one hundred percent vigilance must be. Eventually, as a father, as well as all the other fathers, I must be able to explain to my children that the government stands for our safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Van den Bosch. I'd like to be the first to congratulate you on your lovely maiden speech. I always find it very nice to see a maiden speech, because these speeches often contain the personal reasons why one has ever gone into politics. The same goes for your beautiful contribution. Thank you. May I congratulate you most warmly? I shall now suspend the sitting so that your colleagues can also congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by complimenting our colleague Van den Bosch on his maiden speech. It is indeed nice to hear again why someone finds it so special to be here in the Chamber. For me, it's only been a year and a half. I think it's especially special that you've been coming here since you were 18, that you're putting that freedom at the center and that after a few years you decide to come here to the Chamber. I'm suggesting that it's very short, that you're relatively young, that it's incredibly nice that after all the public and political steps you've taken, you ended up here and that the circle is complete. I think I can say on behalf of my colleagues that we wish you every success in fulfilling your duties. There's no bridge to build, so I guess I won't. About a month ago, a convicted jihadist was arrested on Volkel Air Base, not because he was doing something wrong at the time, not because he was breaking the law at that time, but because he was wearing different clothes than the rest of the work crew he was with and because he wasn't wearing his pass. That's why he was extra-checked. So in itself you can conclude that there has been adequate action. Something didn't seem right, and it was staged. At that check it turned out to be someone who had previously been convicted and waited for his appeal because of an attempt to travel to Syria to fight there. That man was working on Volkel for a local company that did digging there. It seems perfectly normal for this man to be back at work. He may have been convicted and his criminal case is still on appeal, but in the meantime he should be able to participate in society and enter into work. The question is, of course, whether it is wise to admit such a person to a barracks. The Minister writes in her letter that the area where this man worked belonged to the lowest security category and that it is quite logical that he entered it so easily. Nevertheless, it sees reason to examine all the procedures thoroughly. This firm language sounds familiar to the ears. Last year, a journalist managed to get to the barracks in Oirschot very easily. He even managed to steal a vehicle. It was also said that the barracks would be strengthened. Can the Minister explain exactly what has been strengthened and improved since then? It seems that it is still very easy to enter a barracks, whether you are angry or not. I notice there are fighter planes on Volkel. It is a public secret, or still an unsolved secret, that there would be nuclear weapons. In short, it's not a place where you just let everyone in. We all know that defence personnel must meet very strict requirements and undergo thorough screening. Isn't it strange that visitors to military bases are hardly controlled? Can the Minister answer that? The Minister is now going to take a thorough look at the procedures. Can it also take the suggestion of the trade union that employees of external companies working at a barracks should have a statement of good behavior? I'd like to get a response. Finally. For our security it is important that Jan and alleman cannot enter a military base. There is simply too much information and there are too many things present in these places that can be abused by people with evil in the sense. In about a year it has been shown twice that the security of barracks is not in order. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she's going to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the CDA Group, I would also like to congratulate Mr Van den Bosch on his maiden speech. I look forward to a constructive collaboration with him in the Lower House as a new spokesman for Defence of the VVD. I am not going to try to make Mr Van den Bosch's little bridge to terrorists. I wouldn't dare. But the subject is indeed extremely serious. This is not the first time we have talked about defence sites that are unauthorized by people. Among other things, we have had the actions of Undercover in the Netherlands journalist Alberto Stegeman, who drove off with a jeep in Oirschot. Then the Secretary of Defense promised he'd get better. She announced measures following a series of incidents. But the question is, did they help? Is what happened now an incident, or is it a pattern, or is it an opportunity? On May 10, it was not Alberto Stegeman who entered a military base, but a convicted Syrian. On Volkel no matter what, a very special base in the Netherlands. Fortunately, this jihadist limited himself to making selfies with F-16s. It could have ended differently. Our group is, of course, stunned by the way in which this has happened. Not so much that photos were taken, but that someone with that background could get in there. Volkel is, we know, a potential target of terrorists. For example, in August last year, a terrorist suspect was arrested in Eindhoven. He allegedly rode a balaclava, watched beheading videos of ISIS and looked for photos of Volkel Air Force Base and put red arrows on it. So there's every reason for vigilance. First of all, I should like to address the Minister for Security and Justice. We realize that there is a need for restraint, where it is a case that is under the courts, but I do have a number of questions. Is it true that this jihadist has been sentenced by the judge to two years in prison and has been in the terrorist ward for that? Is it true that the court ruled that the man became increasingly extreme in his faith and was a supporter of jihadism and ISIS? What made him free? Was his punishment on yet? Was he suspended? Should the latter be the case, does the Minister agree with the CDA that such suspensions should take place as little as possible? Is there perhaps a need to change the law for this? We will be discussing changes to the provisions for pre-trial detention in the event of suspicion of terrorism. The question to the Minister is: could this be taken into account? Does the AIVD have enough sight on loose jihadists? How can we prevent attacks if a Syrian can enter Volkel so easily? Because for the same reason, he had a Kalashnikov and a bomb belt with him. According to a journalist from RTL News, the man would have noticed his behaviour and only been arrested a few hours later on suspicion of preparing for terror. Is this true? The defendant's attorney claims the jihadist was taking pictures and videos. You can't just do that, can you? Has he acted suspiciously? Why does the Minister not mention this in her letter and is she merely talking about a routine check, other clothes not wearing his pass visibly? The letter in relation to what we have read in the media raises many questions. I would like a detailed response from the Minister or the Ministers. The Secretary of Defense is safely hiding behind the procedures. At one point the procedure had not been followed, but it had made no difference in her opinion. Nowhere does the Minister say in the letter: this should never have happened. Apparently, security at defence locations has no insight into a visitor's record and even convicted jihadists are not recognized. The Minister himself admits that unqualified work, such as this, does not involve any reference. You just come in with a valid ID. Why can't security check the police systems? Military people are strictly screened to be allowed to work at the Department of Defense. Apparently not visitors and employees of external companies. Many soldiers would have been worried about this for a longer time. Why didn't anything happen to these signals? Defense is now going to examine all the procedures thoroughly. Why hasn't this happened before? We've already had some of these incidents. Also the question is how long it will take. How much time does the minister take for this? Why are measures not taken as soon as possible? So the question is: what signal does the cabinet send to Dutch society, if it is apparently unable to protect even soldiers and one of our most critical air bases in the Netherlands from people with this background? Are the rulers prepared to have visitors and workers screened at the gate as soon as possible, at least for terrorism, and thus to give security access to police systems? Is the Minister of Defence also prepared to come up with a statement of good behaviour for external company employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, eight years ago, there was a problem at an army base, namely when Alberto Stegeman went unauthorized there. Mr Knops also referred to it. I happen to know that because I was here at the time just as four months as a temporary MP. So it doesn't change very much. The security of a defence base must be conclusive in our opinion. Certainly a basis such as Volkel, which is a public secret that nuclear weapons are stored, or should I say that there are probably nuclear weapons stored. The activities of persons convicted of jihadist-related activities should also be monitored after serving any sentence. It is logical that different levels of security apply to different locations on a defence basis. However, even for the lowest level of security, TBB-4, staff carrying out the work should also be screened. Now the presence of this gentleman just happened to come to light, while he was taking pictures. So what degree of screening actually applies to the different TBB levels? To what extent is it a practical obstacle in daily work if a lighter form of screening is introduced for TBB-4, at least checking for terrorist or espionage related activities? Do the Ministers not agree that everyone working on a defence basis should at least have a vog? Can the Minister assure the Chamber that this convicted jihadist has not been in places on the basis which could or could have led to insecurity? The letter shall indicate that the security procedures are being reviewed in response to this incident. At what time can we look forward to the evaluation? And will the security of the base be improved pending the evaluation? The defendant in the case we are talking about today has been sentenced by the judge to two years' imprisonment for attempting to join a terrorist group; an organisation associated with Al-Qaeda. The man has been released pending the appeal, to which no further conditions have been laid down by the court. But that does not mean, of course, that we should not keep a close eye on people with such sympathies. What is the Minister doing, or what is the Government doing, to monitor the activities of persons convicted, who have been released pending an appeal, or who have served a sentence for terrorist-related activities or intentions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension. Looking at the rulers, a ten-minute suspension is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	I'll give the Secretary of Defense the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations on your maiden speech, Mr Van den Bosch. Let me begin by stressing that I fully understand the concerns about the Volkel incident. Like the Chamber, I attach great importance to the security of our defence sites, defence personnel and thus also national security. And let's face it: alertness is always required, partly in view of the unfortunately also substantial threat level in the Netherlands. So I understand that the Chamber is also wondering how this could have happened. When I got the report of the incident, I wasn't amused, too. I would like to say the following in this connection: I would like to ask you for your understanding, and I think that my colleague from V and J will say nothing else. Unfortunately, I cannot answer all the questions fully tonight. That has everything to do with the fact that the case is still under investigation at the D.A.'s office. However, there should be no misunderstanding that security awareness, alertness and vigilance are always required in the defence sector. In my letter from last week, I informed the Chamber that Defense is periodically, annually, evaluating its security regime and that, in any case, the Volkel Air Force incident is proceeding in such a way that incidents give rise to further thorough review of all procedures. And yes, I say in response to various questions from your members, the Volkel Air Force Commander has now taken measures to prevent repetition, but for security reasons I cannot explain them in public. I have clearly explained in my letter that the Department of Defense is doing everything in its power to keep unauthorized persons away from state secrets, ammunition, communications equipment, specific equipment and so on. That is exactly why we use a tiered system with four security categories. This is how we keep it workable and let it be effective. We call that indeed the "interests to be protected," where TBB-1 is the highest category and TBB-4 is the lowest category. Parts of a barracks site, sometimes a quantity of square kilometres, often belong to the lowest category. Think about a heath, parking lot or stuff like that. Mind you, there is no screening in the lowest category, but even then a person cannot just walk into a base or barracks. He must be authorized. The suggestion I have heard from time to time that you can just build up a base is not correct, at least if the procedures are followed properly. The requirements for access vary according to the security category in force. So on one and the same basis, for example Volkel, you have different regimes when it comes to who you allow to which parts. The activities for which Volkel was engaged were unclassified in nature and were carried out on a part of the basis where the lowest security category, TBB-4, is in force. In other words, it was general work in a place of no particular significance for which, according to the Wvho, the Safety Research Act, screening is not required. However, the person concerned had to be notified in advance by the company. At the entrance check at the gate, this did not appear to have happened to the person concerned. He was only employed for that day through a temporary agency, as the Chamber has all been able to read, in connection with illness of a regular employee. After consulting the foreman and providing a valid identity card, the surveillance allowed him to enter the field of operation of the airbase. Of course, Mr Knops is absolutely right to say that a mistake has been made, because, as I write in my letter, there was a need for consultation between the guard and an air force officer. By that I do not mean "a" air force officer in the sense of a cook or another employee, but someone who knows about surveillance. This has not happened, and that is wrong. This has been the subject of a heated debate with the person concerned. At the same time, the presumption, as I have honestly said, that the outcome of such consultations would probably have been no different, because in unclassified activities individuals are not normally screened in accordance with the Safety Investigation Act, the WVO. I'm not saying this to trivialize or talk right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	I have an interim question. It may be childish, but I still like to put it in plain human language. I have a feeling that before you walk into a barracks, you're going through certain security checks. After that, you'll be here. You indicate that there are areas where the risk is not so great. Then I think: it is serious that someone who wants to do something bad, for example, commits an attack on a barracks, whether it is in a high-risk area or not? That's inherently a risk, isn't it? I am looking for the extent to which the Minister can explain what that means and why she estimates that the risk is not so great in certain parts of a barracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	I just indicated that we have been working with a layered system for years. There's a reason. You want to use your people and resources as effectively as possible. I assume that Mrs Belhaj also understands very well that there is a great difference between a parking lot and the damage that can be done there and access to state secret ammunition or certain weapons systems. Just because we wanted to keep it workable and effective all these years, we work with this layered system. Of course Mrs Belhaj is right. If something happens in a parking lot of a barracks or base, that is of course terrible. But I'm mainly explaining to her what we're doing right now and what that layered system looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	So this is not part of the part where the minister says she wants to analyse it thoroughly again before deciding that you need an explanation of behaviour, you want to do any work at all on a barracks, whether that is in the parking lot from which you have the opportunity to enter other risk areas or elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	I'm really just getting started. So Mrs Belhaj is a bit ahead of herself. Of course, this is included in the evaluation. All the alarm bells went off when I got the call. I also immediately wondered how that could have happened. The demands we make to our employees are clear, even for you here in this house. The demands we make on externals have everything to do with the part of the field in which they are working and with the question of whether certain requirements apply to them in accordance with the CSR. If so, they must have not only a vog, but also a vgb. They won't get it until they've gone through the screening. Of course it is a question of whether you want to reduce the number of TBB-4 parts of a barracks or base or perhaps abolish them altogether. That's part of the evaluation. I do not want to just get off that because there has been an incident now, because it has worked well for years. We also need to look at other possible solutions. Sure, screening and a vgb create a huge workload and high costs. A vog also leads to a certain workload and costs, although they are much lower than those of a vgb. Nevertheless, we, as directors, are also asked to make sure that this is proportionate to the work and the location where the work is carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	If everyone is of good will, this system works. I'll bet you do. It's worked well for years, too. The Minister states that the work concerned low-ranking aircraft on a part of the air base where there were no vital components. Now you come in with your van, you're a temp, you're checked to see if your ID matches with the one you are, you're part of a club builder who's active there, you take your van to a place that's low class, and while the rest of your club is working, you're gonna take the van and you're gonna do something in another place on the airbase. You can do that on Volkel and on other bases. Then you'll be in areas that are highly classified. The question is: how waterproof is this system, which in theory is true, but it does allow evildoers to enter through the lowest classification and then come near locations that are much more classified. Suppose you load a van with explosives or otherwise, you can do a lot of damage. I would ask the Minister to take this kind of scenario into account, which she does not have to share extensively with the Chamber, because that could have happened in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr. Knops knows the DOD well enough. We're not exactly naive. We certainly include these kinds of scenarios in the evaluation. If you've entered the lowest category, you can't just skip to another category. That is not the case, because there are also inspections and rounds. That's exactly why this man was apprehended. In that respect, Mrs Belhaj is right. The system worked despite the mistake that was made. There is also a visual inspection. So it's not like you can just sit in the middle of the base with a van full of explosives and let things go off there, but that scenario is definitely included in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	The Minister is unlucky that I did an internship there for a while, although many years ago, but I know the basics pretty well. I won't say this scenario could happen right away, but if anyone wanted it, you could come a long way before you get caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	After all that has happened in Berlin and London, we must now, unfortunately, be prepared in the Netherlands. In this case it was limited to taking photos, but it could have ended differently. I would really ask the Minister to look at this extremely seriously and to take the question of what to do in a worst case scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	There can be no doubt about that. All scenarios will be taken into account. I just said I share the care that lives in the Chamber. It is still hard for the Chamber, but also for me, that someone who has been convicted of attempting to get out of Syria can carry out work on a military basis, even if it is TBB-4. For me, that is the starting point for the evaluation that is currently taking place. That evaluation must be accurate and will therefore take some time. But that does not affect the temporary measures that have already been taken. I believe that is what Mrs Belhaj asked for. The evaluation will take about three months. I'll inform the Chamber about that. Anyway, what happened runs counter to your feelings and my feelings. For me, that is why we need to keep the procedures under close review. I just made the mistake of not consulting the guard with an air force officer. Please note that the presentation of a valid identity card at this time, especially when it comes to TBB-4, serves only to establish the identity of the person concerned, nothing more and nothing less. I can feel the shoe wringing there, including for you. The evaluation will cover all aspects and scenarios, including access requirements and security zones. It will also be examined whether additional measures in the area of prior checking are desirable and useful, such as the introduction of a vog. I would like to say the following: pay attention, because if we think that an explanation of behaviour is going to offer us complete safety, we are very wrong. There are also many problems: the explanation is given for a certain period of time and you cannot necessarily see whether the person in question can be put to work for that purpose. It's not a blissful thing. We must bear that in mind if we are to adopt certain measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mrs. Belhaj, is it an idea that the Minister should go further and that you should interrupt afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	I think that is a brilliant suggestion and appeal, Mr President, but we should discuss it immediately and have it clear, because then I will need little time in the second term. This concerns specifically the vog, in which the Minister states "
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The minister says it's not savoury. But in a vog you can indicate if it is a risky environment. It's very simple. You check that and then you check to what extent someone has done something that involves a risk. We're not talking about people who drove through red light and got a fine once. In my opinion, the easiest way to check whether or not someone should be doing their job is a vog for a lot of organizations in the Netherlands. I ask the Minister once again whether the vog is satisfactory, but perhaps I should ask the other minister. Isn't that the easiest and fastest way to keep bad people away from a barracks like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	I'm just saying that the introduction of a vog can be interesting, can help us, but it's not beating. The only thing I do here is tambourize a little bit on your sense of reality when it comes to all kinds of measures that we announce, and which involve workload and costs. These are things that we must keep in mind every time we introduce new measures. So yes, an explanation of the behavior could be interesting. So this is taken into account for TBB-4 and the other locations of Defense, but I would like to stress that there is a need for a sense of reality when it comes to excluding incidents, including in this respect. I'm still referring to the Safety Investigation Act. According to this law one can be screened if one has a trust function. This applies to persons carrying out vital or classified activities. Without the designation "vital' or "classified', persons shall not be screened. That's exactly the difference between a vgb and a vog. With the vgb you can look a lot further. I have now made clear the layered manner of security of the Defence Site. Yeah, there's been a mistake. Reference was made to the incident with Mr Stegeman. I understand that reference. I wouldn't say that it's apples compared to pears, because I wouldn't do you any good, but both things are very different from each other. In both cases it is a question of obtaining access to a base, but the ways in which access was obtained are hardly comparable. At that time, Stegeman bypassed the access control by hitchhiking behind another vehicle. And yes, after such incidents, the DOD conducts a thorough investigation to avoid the risk of recurrence. Adjust the measures if necessary. It's still human work. This means that we have to keep calling for security awareness from within the organisation. The many questions about Volkel, which have been addressed to me, I think I have answered with this. If not, I'd like to hear it. I'd also like to make another report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	I thank the Minister for the answer so far. She herself indicated that there are hooks and eyes on a dog. A dog can look back five years or longer. If you're convicted of being a jihadist or a traveler, that vog will expire at some point. That's one of those hooks or eyes. Then these people can just get back into functions. I understand that an adjustment of the screening costs human power and money, but a lot of money has been added in recent times. All parties have allocated extra money in their programmes for security. Why not just introduce such a screening with TBB-4? Then we're out of a lot of trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	I'm also dealing with a Security Investigation Act. It must therefore be classified activities in areas such as vital areas. Those are things we can't just ignore. It goes without saying that this will also be fully taken into account in the evaluation. The Chamber is therefore further informed about our findings and what we are going to do with them. I will work closely with my colleague from V and J. So we're not ruling anything out right now. It's part of the evaluation. However, I would add that we have not ever decided on a layered system of security for nothing, because then we can focus on state secrets, ammunition, weapons systems and so on. What will happen if, for example, you explain the Oirschotse Heide, which I would like to tell you about in a moment, to an area that only citizens with a vgb can access. Unfortunately, these are all issues, so are the areas of defence which must be taken into account in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	That's a clear answer. It is good that it is included in the evaluation, but security is currently under such pressure that we may need to act a little faster and perhaps take a little bigger step. I shall return to that in my second term. I think three months of evaluation is too slow. We're under so much pressure. Can't it all go faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	We're going as fast as we can, but I also care. We should not now announce some measures which later prove ineffective. It's got to lead to something. So I think we need three months. If it's sooner, then it's sooner; the Chamber hopefully becomes s.s.m. Informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	I fully support Mr De Graaf's last point. I have already indicated in the first period that there has been a long period of dissatisfaction, including among the staff: while they are rightly screened extremely strictly, this type of company can operate without screening in so-called unclassified or low-rated zones, as has now been shown. A jihadist could simply carry out construction work. I have just had the debate with the Minister on this. We do not entirely agree on this, but I would like to continue this debate when the evaluation is available. So I would really like to ask the Minister to carry out that evaluation soon. I would also like to ask her to send out the signals to the military trade unions in the media that they have been sending out some worrying signals about this for some time; I do not know if that is the case, but they have indicated that they are taking this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	Sure, I'm definitely gonna do that. For the record: if work is to be carried out in the category TBB-1 or TBB-2, it is also necessary for externals to have a VGB. Then you have to deal with the ABDO requirements, which Mr Knops knows all too well. So we are taking it with us and I have heard the trade unions in many areas, including in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	Thank you for that answer on the trade unions, but the Minister is now saying that there is a screening for category 1 and category 2. I maintain that it is relatively easy to come from category 4 near category 2 in such a way that at least you can do a lot of damage. That's what it's all about: the effect. The kind of people who engage in this type of activity, whether in London or Berlin, want to have an effect. This person is now intercepted, but it is not possible that this kind of behavior provokes copying behavior. So I think it would be good to be alert about this very quickly. This is what we are dealing with in this society, especially on these vital air bases, such as Volkel. I would ask the Minister, particularly in those different categories, to look at the distinction that is apparently made in the legislation again, because I see a number of problems ahead of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	We don't have to convince each other of the urgency and the risks that there are. I am well aware of that. I have just indicated that we are not only looking at the security categories, but also, for example, at checking or prior checking by means of a vog or screening, i.e. an VGB. Those are all kinds of things that are being taken away. I am very aware of the urgency, but I know that Mr Knops also attaches great importance to a careful evaluation so that we will soon know what we are announcing and what that means, and not just in terms of workload and costs. These are all aspects of our security, but they do matter, because, frankly, it is not so much about the costs that Defence is going to make but about the costs that others are going to make to get on the ground with us. In addition, I have just given an example of a heath or other areas which also belong to the Defence Areas, where a security category has been released and which have been opened up to the public, for example. In short, these are things that we do have to take into account. I am also aware of the fact that Mr Knops knows the basis, but I have been there regularly. We also know that you don't just come from one place to another and that there really is surveillance on state secrets, ammunition, weapons systems and that sort of thing. Anyway, I recognize the risks outlined by Mr Knops. Again, I also endorse the urgency. I would like to take advantage of this debate to report another incident. I don't do that to launder my conscience. This has nothing to do with jihadists or terrorists, but I would like to stress that, as I have just said, Defence is a large implementation organisation in which a lot is going on at the same time in many different places, at home and abroad. We practice, we train, we supply, we transport, we assist and you name it. At the beginning of my term, I stressed the importance of security awareness in everyone. We're a big organization, with more than 55,000 employees. Everyone is therefore constantly reminded of the awareness of their own security, but also of the awareness of the safety of colleagues and national security. So security awareness is a must. Because people are involved, sometimes things happen because people drop stings, not even because they feel bad or because they "are somewhat casual in it." You can see that not only in the defence sector, but also elsewhere where vigilance, alertness and security are needed. I have just indicated that I regularly receive a "message incident." That could be a lost USB drive, a key that is missing and which is later found again. Sometimes it's events with minor consequences or without consequences. Sometimes it's events with bigger consequences. The Chamber will be informed more about it, but since we are having this debate now, I thought: let me take this right away. Yesterday, I was informed of a report of an incident that mentioned the theft of a military backpack during a practice on the heath. Now you're gonna think, "That's not so bad." But in that backpack there was, among other things, an access pass for the barracks in Oirschot and a universal key for a Scania vehicle. As it looks now, there was a group of soldiers busy there. They had first been on apple and then went to the heath to practice there. Then you have the backpacks in sight. You're gonna hang it off, and you're gonna have it in sight or you're gonna put someone next to it who's gonna supervise it. They seem to have lost sight of the backpacks, I think, unwatched. Someone else was able to take advantage of that by opening the moors to the public. This was not a jihadist or anything but, as far as we know, a confused white man from the early 20s. However, he had taken the pass out of the bag. He has thus entered the barracks and with the universal key the Scania has started to work. Then he drove the vehicle out of the barracks, not without rambling the gate. Afterwards he drove through Eindhoven, and also damaged a few parked cars. He then returned to the barracks and was arrested there by the Royal Marechaussee. The man's still in custody. The exact facts are now being recorded. I'm keen to report this to the Chamber now. As soon as the facts are complete, I will inform the Chamber. So it was a group of soldiers who went into an exercise, but the consequences were potentially enormous. That is exactly why the battalion commander has now, quite rightly, ordered a disciplinary investigation. If culpability is established, a sanction will also be imposed. The incident in daily briefings and during the apple is also explicitly mentioned. The commanders will present this incident to the troops as an example of how not to do so. This has everything to do with the security awareness of all our people. I told you before: once the facts are complete, the investigation by the Royal Marechaussee is still ongoing, I will inform you in full. I'm well aware we're talking about another incident tonight. Nevertheless, I wanted to share this incident with you, because I do not want you to hear it from the media. I am also saying this: everything in our organisation must be aimed at preventing incidents and incidents. But if it does happen, the organisation must react directly and adequately. Without prejudging things, I think that at the end of the day there has been an adequate response in Volkel, no matter what went wrong, and that is why I am also concerned. In this case too, security, which saw immediate damage to the gate and that sort of thing, has responded adequately. This is to learn and to prevent repetition. Defence is a large implementation organisation where a lot is happening and a lot is going on. I really want there never to be any incidents and incidents, but unfortunately they are there. I would ask you to take a good look at how that organisation reacts rather than just saying that this must never happen again. Because I'm afraid we'll be coming home from a cold carnival.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	Are you done with this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	I would like to thank the Minister for the speedy reporting of this event on, if I do, the Woenselse Heide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	The Oirschotse Heide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	Oh, sorry. The Oirschotse Heide. I just didn't get it right. But this, as the minister called it, was a confused man. Can you figure out what happens when a targeted man gets to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u48	What did you think I was thinking when I got the incident report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u49	So that's what I thought, when I was just sitting in my bench: he was a targeted gentleman. However, I would like to inform the Minister that this only strengthens me in the belief that there should be a screening for TBB-4, including for places like this. Security is in front of us at number one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u50	I can inform Mr De Graaf that I strongly take his request and his concerns into account in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u51	Were you done with all the answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u52	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u53	I, too, appreciate the Minister's reporting in this debate. I hear her say: it's also about people reacting properly. I fully agree with that, but we also ask questions about how things could have happened and then check whether certain patterns can be seen in them. My question, in line with the debate we are having, is about something that the Minister did not quite mention, but what I would like to know now: how is it possible that a confused man ended up in that place at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u54	Because the heath is open to anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr. Chairman. I too, of course, begin by congratulating Mr Van den Bosch. If I've understood his speech correctly, he's gonna throw himself into the graduation parties tonight, stating that he too passed his exam tonight. I wish him a lot of pleasure in that. Moreover, because we are dealing with more serious matters here, I agree with the remarks just made by the defence colleague and with the concerns expressed by Members of Parliament. I, too, of course, was shocked when I heard the message that a terrorism-condemned opportunity had come to work on the airfield. This illustrates once again how critical we should be and remain on the procedures we have on security, as Mr Knops pointed out. The fact that you have a procedure should never result in you automatically assuming that everything is going to be okay. We must therefore be careful in the day-to-day exercise of the procedures, but we must always ask ourselves whether our procedures are good enough and sharp enough. That is what the Chamber is doing in this debate. Against that background, I will answer the questions asked. In doing so, I would ask the Court to understand that it is not appropriate for me to deal in detail with matters which are still in the hands of the judge or the Public Prosecutor's Office. Some speakers also pointed out this. In any case, the latter also concerns Mr De Graaf's first question. He asked what happened to the footage. I can only say that the D.A. is investigating this event. As long as that runs, no announcements will be made about it. Mr De Graaf's next question dealt with the operation of the Vog. Mr Knops asked for this later. A dog is requested for a specific purpose. Mrs Belhaj pointed that out too. Depending on that purpose, the Justis Service will assess whether it is justified to give the explanation of the behaviour. In addition to the purpose, the Justis Service also takes into account how long ago an incident occurred and the age of the perpetrator at the time he committed the act. A little more clemency applies to young people. Grosso mode: the heavier the crime, the longer the period over which the animal will not be granted. Both Mr Knops and Mr De Graaf asked whether we should perhaps adopt a longer term in the case of terrorism. That's what I'm investigating. I think you should do that carefully, so I want to inform the Chamber later on whether we should extend the deadline for terrorism-related crimes and information. Mr De Graaf also asked for funding for deradicalisation. That really is Mr Asscher's area. That information, which I'm sure there will be, I don't have available to him. So I ask him to ask my colleague that question. Mr De Graaf also asked a number of factual questions about the very annoying incident with the driver in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u57	The Minister for Security and Justice is getting off to a speedy start. That's very good; I also like speed. Only this went a little too fast, because this minister is also here on behalf of the entire cabinet. I asked the cabinet a question. It is therefore better for the Minister to pass on that question so that we may receive a letter from Mr Asscher. Sounds like a more royal route to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u58	If Mr De Graaf wants that information in writing, of course he can. The same goes for his next question. He asked a number of very factual questions about the accident at the Central Station in Amsterdam. The Chamber is entitled to a correct reply. This is also partly the subject of research. I hope Mr De Graaf understands that if I am invited to a debate on Volkel, I do not have the people with me who know exactly what happened in Amsterdam. So I would like to come back to this in writing, and I prefer to do so when the investigation is completed, because I can then give as complete a picture as possible. So that's gonna be later. Mr Knops would have asked about the conviction. The person concerned has been sentenced to two years for participating in an organisation whose purpose is to commit terrorist offences. That conviction is not yet final, because an appeal has been lodged. That appeal can be waited for in freedom. There is therefore no provisional release. That's what Mr. Knops asked. Since the case is now under the courts, I have great reservations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u59	Of course, I understand that the Minister cannot say everything. This situation surprises me anyway. Let me just generalize. Is it normal for someone in this situation, so if he's been in prison for two years and then goes on appeal, to be free to wait for the appeal? That's not automatism, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u60	Well, it's not automatic, but the judge generally makes that assessment. Then again, it is not appropriate for the Minister of Justice to rule on the considerations in an individual case. What I will come back to is that Mr Knops also asked about the duration of the provisional detention. That is not the case here, because it is about legislation. I have sent to the Council of State a law of the meaning of 'possibility of extending remand detention' in this type of crime. He just got back. I will provide the opinion of the Council of State with an informed response. I therefore hope to be able to send the Chamber a concrete proposal on pre-trial detention before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u61	I have a question about this case. For once again, it is not just this case that concerns me, but more about the fact that this could happen more often if people were condemned for being involved, I say it in my own words or participation in a terrorist organisation. It can't be that these people have the opportunity to take these kind of trips?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u62	Then I need a further specification. What does Mr. Knops mean by "this kind of trips"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u63	Trips to Volkel Air Base.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u64	Yes, but this gentleman has not been definitively convicted. My colleague from the Defence Department has said that, depending on the security requirements of defence sites or other areas, there may be either no vog or even more stringent screening. If a vog had been requested for this gentleman or if he had been subjected to a heavier screening, I have a very strong suspicion that a red lamp would have gone off. In this situation, there was no reason for that screening to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u65	We have just heard that. There may still be motions for resolutions on whether or not this is necessary. The Minister actually said: that would be wise, because then a light would have lit here. Now that hasn't happened. That didn't fit in with this procedure because he came in low classified. Does the Minister agree with me that in such cases "? That's my question right away. How does this kind of guy stay in the picture with the AIVD? How is it that someone who has been convicted and then freely awaits his appeal, as a temp, arrives on an air base? That is, of course, the question that concerns us all. What can we do to prevent this from happening in future, or does the Minister say that this is not a situation she wants to avoid in the future? But I don't have the impression that the Minister is radiating that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u66	Certainly not. Mr Knops will understand that I am not telling you exactly how the AIVD is following people, but he will also agree with me that we do not want suspicious people to come into areas and places with security risks. At the same time, we prefer them to earn their living rather than hold their hands. So that's what you're looking for a solution for. When do you set security requirements? We can use area guidelines. Under the Temporary Act, I can issue regional guidelines on the fight against terrorism. That's what happened. It's an extra instrument. I hope that Mr Knops agrees with me that, if we see the possibility of just making people earn their living, we want to keep that possibility open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u67	Finally, Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u68	If I have to choose between someone who has been sympathetic to and involved in terrorist organisations, earning a living or putting it under lock and key, I know it. That's a very simple choice for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u69	The choice isn't usually that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u70	The judge's made a different assessment. I would ask the Minister to look at this case further. Unfortunately, such situations are likely to occur more frequently, especially when people of this kind are released. Their ideas aren't gone. The judge makes a decision, but this is the risk that we all run together. I am very much in favour of someone earning their living, but the choice between that and major risks for soldiers and citizens working there is very simple for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u71	Yeah, but we shouldn't make it any simpler than it is. This was military territory. I've already indicated that my fear is as great as that of the MPs. At the same time, it cannot be the case that a person who is convicted or suspected cannot work anywhere. You must ensure that the safeguards are properly applied where there are safety risks. In addition, we must keep an eye on people when there is cause for concern in the security services. Mrs. Diks asked for that. I can't tell her exactly how we do that either. I hope she will allow me to be pleased with her question, because monitoring often involves legislation that sometimes does not have the support of her group, which I would have liked to have. I mentioned the example of imposing an area designation. Mr Plasterk is in the process of gathering intelligence. We really do that for this purpose, not to tease people, but to ensure safety. I very much appreciate that Mrs Diks says here that she would like us to do so, but I hope that she will accept that I say that I would like GroenLinks to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u72	It would also be nice if the Minister for Security and Justice made a distinction between military areas and society in general. That was precisely the point that we wanted to make and which was also made very emphatically by Mr Knops. It is unbelievable that a person convicted of jihadism and wanting to leave for Syria and who is then, of course, free to wait for his appeal, can carry out work on a defence ground, even if it is low-ranking. That is something that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is also very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u73	Mrs Diks' first-term question was: how does AIVD follow these kinds of people, because society needs to be protected? I agree. So I responded to the first-term question. Mrs Diks will agree with me that the threat concerns not only military areas, but unfortunately all the places where innocent people meet. For this, the government needs instruments that we properly frame legally. That's what we'll put to the Chamber. I would like to take a positive approach: I appreciate the concern expressed by Mrs Diks and I also have it, but I hope that Mrs Diks and her group will support it when we put forward legislation in this area. That will soon be the case again. I pointed out to Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u74	I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u75	Mr. Chairman. From this point on, congratulations to Mr Van den Bosch on his beautiful maiden speech. I couldn't have done that yet, because I was for him. But here's the thing. Welcome and success here in the House of Representatives. Thank you to the Ministers for their reply. Thank you for the commitment of a letter from the Minister of SZW and of a letter on Amsterdam from the Minister of Security and Justice. Then we'll go back to the subject we're talking about tonight. Just a few days ago, IS declared war on us again. Indeed, attacks had to take place throughout Europe, especially during this period, including the Netherlands. This urgency requires us all to take safety even more firmly than we already do. I really need my glasses, Mr. Chairman; that's probably old age. As the Netherlands, I have written down, we are under heavy pressure; I have just said that. Jihadists don't wait for an evaluation. They'll do whatever they want. Analyzing them. They have the opportunity to carry out their work during such a period of evaluation. On one of my questions it has also been reported that the vog remains a problem and is therefore not conclusive. That is why I would like to table a fairly comprehensive motion to give direction and ask for a ruling from the Chamber to improve security. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there may still be persons in defence areas who have not been screened;]] [[Whereas defence sites must be protected at all times;]] [[Whereas the strictest security requirements should also apply to persons having a role in the security of people and objects and/or having access to sensitive information by virtue of their function in the government;]] [[Considering that, after a number of years, convicted terrorists may also have a say, which puts them at risk of being placed in sensitive security positions;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the screening of all persons who have access to TBB 1 to 4, as well as of all government staff who have a role in the security of people and objects and/or have access to sensitive information, and to enable the STUD to do so, if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Graaf and Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u76	Mr. Chairman. We're also filing a motion. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the ministers. However, we would like to put some pressure on the cabinet to look at all the possibilities I will mention in the motion. I'm filing the motion on behalf of the CDA and D66. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that military areas are vulnerable to terrorist attacks;]] [[Whereas the security of military sites must be kept in order at all times;]] [[Whereas if the Volkel procedure had been followed in the best possible way, it would still not have been possible to prevent the Volkel procedure on 10 May. the person detained had been given access to the military territory;]] [[calls on the government to identify how external partners can be investigated in advance or in advance. controlled, in order to prevent any person who is demonstrably at risk from military territory, and whether existing laws and regulations are sufficient to do so, and to inform the Court thereof promptly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Bosch, Mr Knops and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers for answering the questions. I would also like to thank the Secretary of Defense for her courage to report a very annoying new incident here. It's better to hear it here than to hear it from the newspaper. I understand all the limitations that are mentioned. I also understand that good analysis and good research will be carried out. I also hope that the Minister really understands the following very well. We in the Chamber are very often debating far-reaching security measures and far-reaching possibilities to monitor the extent to which people tend to commit terrorist acts. We talk about that a lot. There's a lot of security on the street. At the same time, this is something crucial: the people who guarantee the security of all of us. There should be no risk of this in any way, despite the fact that 100% safety does not exist. So I very much hope that, in the case of the defence sector too, we are aware that we simply cannot afford to make mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both directors for answering the questions. I really understand that they cannot answer all the questions, but I do feel that the two leaders are taking the issue extremely seriously. I would also like to thank the Minister of Defence for her statement. I would rather not have had that communication, but I think it is a good thing that it is shared with the Chamber in this way. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a judge sentenced Syriaganger has been granted unimpeded access to Volkel Air Base;]] [[Considers that access for jihadists in Defence barracks, including in areas where the lowest security category applies, poses an unacceptable security risk and cannot be repeated;]] [[noting that visitors to barracks sites and employees of external companies are not screened by security in terms of access to areas where lower security categories apply;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to screen all visitors and employees of external companies in Defence barracks, at least on terrorism and/or jihadism, and to give security access to police systems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u79	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government is working to amend the rules on provisional detention;]] [[Whereas it is now possible for those convicted of terrorism-related crimes to await their appeal;]] [[calls on the government to take this issue into account in the forthcoming legislative proposal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Knops and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr. Chairman. I apologize in advance for scratching my motion. I'll read it to her, then maybe it's clear what I mean by it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that persons can access defence bases without looking at criminal backgrounds or ongoing criminal proceedings;]] [[Whereas security of defence bases should be scaled up within the limits of the rule of law, for example by means of a statement on the conduct and/or alerts of the AIVD or otherwise, in order to prevent any person who may be associated with or suspected of terrorist activities from gaining (re) access to Defence Bases in the future;]] [[calls on the Government, taking into account the requirements of relevant legislation and conventions, to increase the security of TBB-4 sites of military sites in relation to persons likely to be associated with or suspected of terrorist activities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34550-X-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u81	We will continue with the second term of the government. I call the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u82	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with our response to the motions. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 92 by Mr De Graaf and Mrs Popken. I understand all the good intentions, but I have just listed what is being included in the evaluation. I have said that I will share the results with you and that I will take all the suggestions, more than suggestions, from the Chamber. I have also made it clear that I understand very well where the shoe is and that what has happened here is completely contrary to your feeling and also to my feeling. That's exactly why we keep everything under review. I told him the commander took immediate action. Mr De Graaf was right to point out that jihadists do not wait for that evaluation, but simply strike when they feel like it. Mr Knops mentioned this earlier. In other words, I dissuade the motion, not because I do not like it, but because I have clearly stated why I think it is important to include it in the evaluation. The motion in part No. 93 by Mr Van den Bosch, Mr Knops and Mrs Belhaj I see as support for the policy. That's exactly where the crux is. What can we do, also in relation to existing laws and regulations? Is it enough for that? Does it have to change only in the case of the Defence Department, or does it also require other things to achieve an optimal policy? That's policy support. What in the motion to part No. 94 by Mr Knops, however sympathetic and well-meaning, is part of the evaluation. Giving security access to police systems isn't easy. For this reason, too, I should like to advise against this motion, however sympathetic it may appear at first. The Member of the Security and Justice Committee is dealing with the motion on item No. 95. Mrs Diks' 96 motion also anticipates the evaluation. I fully understand that, but I also ask you to understand the importance of care and to identify a number of consequences. I would also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u83	I'm holding my motion in part no. 94 on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u84	At the request of Mr Knops, I propose his motion (14550-X, No. 94). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u85	The same applies to the motion in part No. 96.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u86	At the request of Mrs Diks, I propose her motion (34550-X, No. 96). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u87	There's one more motion for the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr. Chairman. That's the motion in part No. Mr Knops and Mrs Tellegen. The government is invited to take into account the subject matter of the possibility that those convicted of terrorism-related crimes in freedom to await their appeal, in the forthcoming legislative proposal. I ask the authors if I can explain the motion in such a way that I do not amend the bill now, because it has just returned from the Council of State. Preliminary detention is a different issue than this. However, I would be happy to comment on the subject raised by the motion in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal that you will receive from me, namely the position of a convicted person waiting for an appeal. On this basis, we can jointly decide whether this requires a legal amendment. If I had to change the law now, I would pass the Council of State or introduce a huge delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u89	We are extremely pragmatic on this point. It is very important, but I do not want the Minister to bring the whole law to a standstill. It's a good proposal to discuss it that way. Of course, it can then lead to changes to the law, but this can then be done via the normal way through the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u90	With this explanation, I would like to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u91	It is even possible for the Minister of Security and Justice to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u92	- Hey, Are you prepared to do that, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u93	Well, I'll leave the motion to the Chamber's judgment in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u94	Well, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-6.u95	I thank the ministers, their officials, the MPs, the messengers, the Report and Editorial Service and the people who have followed this debate in a different way. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
