ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Mayors from ten Brabant municipalities indicate that officials are increasingly targeting criminals. Since 2010, police, justice, tax administration and municipalities have been working together to tackle undermining crime in the south of the Netherlands. This is the hardest fight against organized drug trafficking. Fortunately, this approach works, because apparently criminals suffer a lot from it. The NRC and the book "We'll take care of it ourselves" show that this approach in Brabant results in officials becoming increasingly exposed to intimidation and threats. Not only the mayors, but also the officials are increasingly targeted by those hard criminals. It's about burning cars, threatening death, smashing windows and smashing walls at home. They say to civil servants, "I know where your kid is at school." It's gonna happen to you: I know where your kid is at school! This sometimes means that officials can and dare not do their job anymore. The CDA finds this horrible and unacceptable. If government servants are targeting criminals, then it cannot be that they themselves and their families are being victimized. That's the upside-down world. A tough approach is necessary. Did the minister talk to those ten Brabant mayors? How did this happen to him? What can the Minister do for those mayors, those civil servants and their children? Of course we had the program Safe Public Task. In the meantime, we've closed down that expertise center. What does this mean in extreme situations? Is there a report? Does the D.A. take this as a priority? Are these criminals and their threats being dealt with mercilessly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bruins Slot's questions are indeed based on Bram Endedijk's book "We handle it ourselves" about organized crime in Brabant. He has devoted an article to it in his own newspaper, the NRC. That book is based on interviews with ten mayors of municipalities in Brabant. It describes how they work together in Brabant to really tackle organised crime. That works, but it also produces a reaction. That's what's in there. It is indeed horrible to see what reactions occur there. In general, violence, threats and intimidation towards local government have been a major concern and concern in recent years. Specifically in the area of undermining, my colleague from V and J, together with BZK and Finance, will shortly be presenting the future agenda for tackling organised undermining crime. So we'll get back to that. In the area of violence against political officials, we have set up a whole programme of courses in recent years. You may think "well, courses," but it's important. People learn to be resilient. We enter constantly: if anything happens, report it. Punishment has been increased. A separate fund has been set up for the security of political officials, precisely to prevent them from thinking: I do not want to take it out of the municipal budget, so I am not saying anything. When each mayor is appointed, there have been more than 100 in the last period of time. I touch on this subject in the interview. I say: never think it's part of the plan, always report it and always put people in the area to do it. I have the impression that that works, by the way. We monitor the violence against local officials every year. You always have to be careful to see a trend, but in the past three years it seems to be decreasing slightly. Still, it's not acceptable, so we have to stay on top of it in the years to come. I totally agree with Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u3	I hear the Minister say a lot about paper and about programmes. Paper is patient, but those criminals aren't. They're all over these civil servants and they're making it impossible for them to do the job. They make sure that they sit at home with their families, have trouble, do not want to do their work anymore and are very worried. More than half of the mayors are also victims of crime and intimidation several times a year. Those figures have been increasing since 2010. So things aren't moving in the right direction. How often do you report it? What is the situation in the other provinces? We now know the story of these ten Brabant mayors, but we know that things are not going well in Limburg and in Central Gelderland either. Is the Minister prepared to enter into talks with those other provinces, to identify whether they are dealing with the same threats? In Brabant and Zeeland a programme manager is working with social resilience. What do we learn from this? What can we expect from this? Could that also be a solution in other provinces? Of course, it is also about the civil servants themselves and their families. Who can they contact to ensure that there is safety again, that they can finally just get back to their job? We read in an interview that also came back in EenVandaag (EenVandaag) that a mayor, I think Roosendaal's, proposed to put civil servants in small municipalities in charge of enforcement to work in another municipality, so that they do not work in the municipality where they live. When they're on the football field, that's a concrete example that's been mentioned. They're not next to the criminal who says, "I know who you are, I know where you live and I know where your kids go to school."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you for that. I have just pointed out that we must also be careful not to reinvent the wheel that we have already put a monitoring on it, even under great pressure from the Chamber, to see how aggression and violence against and intimidation of political ministers are going nationwide. I would like to mention the figures, which are shared with the House of Representatives every year. It was 59% in 2012, 43% in 2014 and the most recent figure is 33% in 2016. So there seems to be a cautious trend for it to decrease, but that is far from enough. So we have to go through with that completely. That is why Mr van V and Mr J, on my behalf, is presenting a future agenda against undermining crime. At the time, Mrs Van Toorenburg insisted that consideration be given to whether we should not come up with a provision, especially around local drivers. I keep that promise. I'm here for the summer with the inventory on that. I first had a discussion on this with the professional associations of council members, aldermen and mayors. On that basis, I have reached a preliminary conclusion. Then I had a conversation with the association of organized political parties and with the King's Commissioners. They were just about to change their mind. I am trying to get as much support for that as possible and I will come back to that with a proposal before the summer. I have just referred to this very briefly and have constantly informed the Chamber about it in order to combat all these forms of violence and intimidation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u5	Yeah, a monitor. However, the mayors have now indicated that it is getting worse with them in the area, that they are seeing it increase again. The question then is whether the Minister also intends to enter into consultations with the other provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u6	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u7	Is that gonna be recognized? Is that what he wants to do? I'd like a commitment to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u8	That's what I'm telling you. I would add that we are already monitoring it nationally at the moment. We are constantly learning from the progress that is being made in different places. I very much appreciate the commitment and commitment of the ten mayors mentioned here, but also of the others, the input is welcome at any time. So I admit that I am fully available to accept and act on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u9	When, is the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u10	At any time. As soon as there's news, I'll report it. I have already said that I will be bringing that provision to the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u11	Summer 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u12	Yeah, this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u13	The debate reminds me enormously of the questions put by Mr Van Oosten two years ago about intimidation of Brabant mayors. In the answers to this question, it was about round tables and courses. The Minister just said something about that. Is he also looking at how that actually worked for the past two years? Is it being monitored how that works out? What are the concrete things that have been added to it recently?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u14	Yeah, I'm looking at that. One might expect that the entamising of the declaration will lead to an increase in the number in the first instance. Nevertheless, I have just mentioned the figures that appear to be decreasing. Assuming that that first thought is also correct, so that people report more than before if something happens, it might be that there have been a few fewer cases. However, it remains difficult, also methodologically, to establish this, because in the past there was much less attention to it. I can say that colleagues from V and J have also discussed before that it is an aggravating factor in the penalty when it comes to violence directed against local political officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you.
