ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, especially the people in the public gallery. We shall begin with oral Question Time and I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice to reply to the first question put to him by Mr Grothuizen of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. "'You can safely assume that many boys are being framed. A client expects €10,000. It's just one time, he says. The boy is sent out with cocaine, the client has him beaten up on the way and the stuff gets stashed. The boy comes back, tells me he's been robbed, the client says: "Too bad for you, this costs me thousands of euros, make sure I get it back." Then you're trapped." This is a quote from the Volkskrant last Saturday. The piece sketches a deafening image. Schools with stacks of banknotes, dealers who abuse young people for courier services, girls who are recruited for prostitution. From the piece an image emerges that goes beyond incidents. There seem to be structural problems. For D66 it is clear: schools must be safe; it is a place to learn. If the picture is correct, the situation is serious. My first question to the Minister is whether he recognizes the picture. If he recognizes it, can he indicate the extent of the problem and what his policy is on it? My second question concerns the role of schools. The piece sketches the picture that schools are afraid to act, because they are afraid of loss of reputation and therefore less registration. Does the Cabinet recognize that image? And if so, how does the Minister intend to address this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr Groothuizen refers to an article in this weekend's Volkskrant about schools where there is an unsafe situation, with drug trafficking on and around the schoolyard. I agree with Mr Grothuizen's statement that a school should be a safe environment, and a school should be an excellent place. Mr Groothuizen asks me, on the basis of that article, whether I recognize the picture and whether we have an indication of the extent of the problems. Every two years, a study is carried out on safety at school, the Social Security Monitor. That's what my colleague, the Minister of Education, is doing. That monitor is also sent to the Chamber, the last one in 2016. This monitor asks both students and teachers whether they feel unsafe at school and what types of crime or insecurity occur in and around the school. This monitor shows no increase. That does not alter the fact that at least one is too much, and that brings me to Mr Grothuizen's next question, namely what the role of the schools is where these problems do arise. It is clear that a school is responsible for safety on the school grounds, in the building and in the school square. That is legally laid down, but even if it were not legally laid down, it would be self-evident. For security policy outside the school, for public order and security, the municipality is responsible in the Netherlands, more specifically the mayor. If a school is faced with an unsafe situation, it goes without saying that, if it is very serious, the school must file a report and, of course, contact the municipality and the district agent. In many places these contacts are excellent, by the way, I know. Mr Groothuizen also asked if I recognize that schools can be reluctant to report. In itself, we recognize that. That is why the Foundation School & Security exists in the Netherlands. He's got a hand-picked hand-picked hand-picked hand-picked hand-picked hand-picked hand-picked hand-picked hand-picked hand-picked hand-picked hand-picked hand-cuffs. That hand-out is available for schools. Apart from that, I would also like to state explicitly that it is so important for a school that there is safety. The short-term gain, I say, in quotes, that there is no hassle in school, is otherwise losing out from the long-term policy that the bad guys can be caught and that safety at that school is structurally guaranteed. So yes, I recognize the reluctance, but the schools really have to report it and we support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u4	I thank the Minister for his response. Good to know the monitor doesn't show a rising image. I do wonder whether there is, in line with what we have seen in the safety investigation, some sort of black hole. We do not know whether there are things that escape our attention, especially in the area of crime. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say something about this shortly. The minister went into the reputational damage. However, I also read in the document that schools would not report incidents for privacy reasons. I don't get it. If schools have indications of criminal offences, they have to report it to the police. I ask the Minister once again if he agrees with me. Does he see specific problems in sharing information and, if so, what will he do about it? We must ensure that this does not just end up on the school board. Care, justice, police, parents and schools come together on this theme. We have Security Houses in which municipalities, police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and youth services work together. Is this partnership working out okay? If not, where are the bottlenecks and what does the Minister intend to do to resolve them? The piece also mentions the role of the district agent. D66 is that there must be an agent who is well aware of the situation in the schools, who knows the students and who is known by the schools. Can the Minister indicate whether a district agent is actually available for all schools that consider this necessary or desirable? If not, what is the Minister going to do to address that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr Grothuizen raises a number of questions. I'll try to do them all right. His first question is whether there is a black hole in the provision of information. The fact that structural research has been carried out for more than ten years indicates that there has been reason to pay extra attention to safety at school. The very open question to teachers and students is whether there are unsafe situations and, if so, what is specifically going on. I see little reason not to provide information. I have no indication that there's a black hole. It is wise, however, to repeat this survey periodically. So we will. The aspect of privacy cannot play a role in whether you report it, but it can when there is a broader problem. That will often be the case. Children may have to deal with debt problems or come from a family with debt problems, drug use or perhaps domestic violence. In such a case, we know the cooperation in the Security House. Mr Groothuizen pointed out that too. There's more than one party around the table. That is a place where sometimes the question is whether data can be shared. I told the Chamber earlier that I would have an inventory of the problems involved in the sharing of information in the interests of aid or the fight against crime and that I would report to the Chamber before the summer. Then there's the question of whether there's always a neighborhood cop available. Luckily, I've never heard a school couldn't find a cop. If that is the case, I would be happy to hear it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thanks again to the Minister for his reaction. It is good to hear that this issue continues to be followed. I have to say, I have concerns. I pulled all the parallels to the crime investigation. It has clearly shown that there is an image that we do not see. That's confirmed by the police and the D.A.'s office. As this takes place in the same field as the content of the article in the Volkskrant, my concerns remain. It is also good to hear that information sharing is being looked at. Can the Minister indicate more explicitly whether there are any bottlenecks in the sharing of the type of information mentioned in the article? I honestly don't see them. I think it's just information about potential criminal offences. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say something about that. An old wish of D66 is the school district cop. I think that would be a very good solution in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u7	In any case, the subject is important enough to continue to call for attention. That is why we do research and continue to critically assess whether they will continue to provide all the necessary information. The information-sharing issues are precisely addressed to me by mayors in particular. I thought that was also the case in the Chamber. For example, mayors are approached by a school about security issues, bring parties around the table, often in a Security House. Besides the police and the municipality, schools can participate as well as Child Services. They do indeed run into the fact that they are either not allowed to share information or feel uncertain about whether they are allowed to share information. I have therefore expressly received the request from their side to identify what can and cannot be done. I thought this request was shared by the Chamber. I will soon report on this and indicate which laws may need to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u8	The interesting thing is that school district cop is here, at least in's-Hertogenbosch. There is a whole route that has also been taken over provincially and has gained national fame. I'm particularly curious how that was picked up. Indeed, you can see that schools receive a lot of support, that a lot is being done and much is being monitored, but when you read the article in the Volkskrant, it turns out that in practice there is some kind of embarrassment. So can the Minister comment on that special officer, who has been approached by the police in schools? Such a thing offers a lot of opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u9	I know that a lot of schools are in frequent contact with the district cop, that the cop visits and gives presentations to the students. If Mrs Van Toorenburg's question is how often that occurs, I have to come back to it in writing, because she will forgive me if I do not remember it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u10	I'm a little irritated around here anyway. It seems like we are having a chattering conversation about calling, while it is about the structural recruitment of very young children, young people, who have been signed by them for the rest of their lives, because they end up in prostitution or are in debt for life. So I really miss the urgency. The article in the Volkskrant clearly shows that it lacks clear alliances around schools. The direction is far from being taken everywhere. My question to the Minister is: what are you going to do? Second. The mayors did not ask for an exploration of the privacy aspects; they simply asked for the necessary approximation of legislation. When can we expect it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u11	Mrs. Kuik presents it a little like she's the only one who's worried. I refer to the extra money and the extra commitment of the cabinet to the loverboy problem and sexting. I refer to the Computer Crime III Act, which deals specifically with the distribution of nude photos, which unfortunately often occurs in the schoolyard and is very harmful. Fortunately, this law had sufficient support in the Lower House, but still has to go through the Upper Chamber. Those are important steps. I would point out that it has already been ensured that safety in schools is regulated, that I recognise the embarrassment of action, as it is called, but that we have had the School & Security Foundation give us a hand-out for a reason. I have indeed promised the Chamber I believe, even in my first week of the year, that I will make an overview of where information sharing runs counter to privacy laws. That's what I'm bringing to the room. I am, of course, curious to see if I can get the support of the Chamber to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u12	Second supplementary question, Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u13	We're standing by, and we're looking at it. Week after week, there are stories in the newspaper that crime, organised crime and undermining up to and including the school benches are bigger than expected. This is not just about what we do in the department; it is about the whole mentality, also at local level. My question now is: who feels called enough, who stands up and says "We're not talking about it, but we're actually going to do something"? Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Someone who says: we talk about it and we make sure that something actually happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u14	There. There are all young people in the public gallery, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u15	Mrs Kuik is about her own words, but once again I am fighting the image that she is the only one concerned about this. For a reason, I indicated so clearly that a school is responsible on the school square and in the school building. Period. I would like to use the word 'trade embarrassment' again, although I had never heard that before I was in the Binnenhof. However, I cannot think of any reason not to press charges. Safety at school is so stinkingly important that you report it, of course, when there is crime on or around the schoolyard. Mr Groothuizen rightly refers to the system of the Security Houses, in which parties such as Youth Services, the police and the municipality come around the table. There are practical problems there. I have already indicated that I would like to follow up on this as far as I have been given as a Demissionary Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u16	The underworld slowly takes possession of the school squares in the MBO. That is a very bad thing. The Minister now says: that is a responsibility of the school and it does not go outside the school itself. If children feel threatened, if they feel intimidated, if they are recruited as a drug mule or for criminal activity, if there is a kid in the schoolyard with a huge pile of euros, who is responsible? Is the school responsible? Then the district cop is responsible? Are civil society organisations responsible? In that case, who's in charge? Otherwise, everyone will continue to point at each other and the schoolyard will remain dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u17	As always, Mr Van Raak chooses his words carefully and puts it in my mouth that the school is always responsible for safety. I have indicated that the school is responsible for security on its own territory. To the question of who is first and foremost responsible when underage boys are running around with a lot of banknotes, my answer is: the parents. I missed that in Mr Van Raak's speech. We have arranged this for thousands of years and there was nothing wrong with it, but it does not work very well every now and then. For this we have a comprehensive system of assistance in the Netherlands. Now the situation can arise that precisely because you have multiple aid workers, parties are going to look at each other. Not for nothing was I so clear about whether you should press charges. For cases where there are complex problems, many problems with a child or a family at the same time, we have the House of Safety, in which these parties sit. That House of Security can point out a director from the center. It is also logical that the question of who is in charge should arise there. Someone in that security house is gonna take that bite. Recently I have seen at the Safety House in Zaanstad, a typical environment where this problem occurs, that it works well. But if you follow the line who is first responsible, you will end up in the Netherlands with the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u18	Everyone finds it appalling that there are young schoolchildren who apparently carry thousands of euros a month because they trade drugs or engage in all kinds of illegal activities. At the same time, it scares me when I read that there are ten to twelve bodies dealing with the same young person, with the same problem, and that a director is quoted who says no one is directing. How will we please prevent us from entering into this bureaucratic discussion: who is responsible, who is in charge? How are we going to ensure that all those agencies that we have just set up to get that youngster out of misery and to protect society from drug trafficking and so on do their job, from probation to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr Van Oosten is concerned about the large number of bodies involved or might be involved in such a case. At first, I recognize that. If you then attend such a consultation, Mr van Oosten has undoubtedly done so once in a while, however, you realize that debt problems are something other than mental health care, for example, which is often in the picture, or probation when a minor or one of the parents in the family is to become a babysitting citizen after a criminal offence. You would do real damage if you didn't bring those parties around the table or try to combine them in one person. These issues are too different and too complicated. But you have to make agreements about who does what. In the Security Houses there is that possibility and you can appoint a director among yourself, usually the party that brings the case. In the coming period, he will prepare the follow-up steps with those who carry them out and keep the overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u20	A few years ago, a proposal was made to the Chamber, the bill of lading incident registration. It said that schools were obliged to report it if an incident occurred. That proposal was finally withdrawn. For this, a proposal was put in place to prevent bullying in schools. The article by de Volkskrant shows that we may not yet have a good map of where all these incidents occur. Wouldn't it therefore be a good idea to take that proposal out of the drawer and send it back to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u21	I'll look at that bill again, but my first reaction is: let's be a little careful when we go to schools with new obligations. I've been on a school board before. I was allowed to, but I can't do that anymore. I was delighted to do so, but I did not have the impression that the question was asked at the time: can you in The Hague make up an obligation for us? I will look at it again, but Mrs Westerveld hears that my basic attitude is critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u22	I would like to talk about privacy in the security house chain, cooperation between municipalities, youth services, police and justice. We wonder if it's just a matter of privacy. Last May, we read in De Groene Amsterdammer that in some municipalities a lot of officials have access to certain sensitive information. Of course, we don't want that. But here we are talking about information that is already available to all these authorities. We wonder if it is not a question of sharing the right information. Is it due to ICT systems or certain unwillingness or incompetence that the information that exists, with good safeguards for privacy, is not sufficiently shared?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u23	Privacy is strictly regulated in the Netherlands. In general, you may only use data for the purpose for which they were collected. You can technically say that all you have to do is share the data, but that soon violates the privacy rules, because then you share data for a different purpose than for which you have collected them. I'm mapping where the bottleneck occurs. I do not rule out at all that there is sometimes a little too much restraint. Sometimes aid workers are so afraid of disciplinary law, lawyers or procedures that they don't dare things when they are allowed to do them. As far as I am concerned, the report to the Chamber contains both an overview of what really isn't allowed but what we could legally modify as well as an overview of what is allowed as long as you arrange it neatly with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u24	These two journalists, Tromp and Tops, have previously written a book about the undermining in Brabant from drug crime. We're going to debate that this afternoon. They are now writing about a very serious situation, namely recruitment for prostitution and drug trafficking. We must not lose that battle. A year ago, we had a very intense debate with the Minister of Security and Justice about the capacity in the security chain, with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and judges. The Chamber had a lot of questions about this. Is the capacity in order? The Court of Auditors says that the basic service is still not quite in order and the Public Prosecutor says that it actually does not have sufficient capacity to prosecute human traffickers. Can the Minister state his views on this, especially with regard to the negotiations and the new period? Is the capacity sufficient? Do we have enough resources in this fight that we must never lose?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u25	This falls under the category 'I am glad that Mr Segers is asking'. Every time I have this debate with the Chamber, I end with the reference to the formation table. It is not the case that there is an irresponsible situation in the Netherlands because of a lack of capacity, but, of course, choices will have to be made every time in the police and the judiciary. As more capacity is available, you can often choose to continue or act. I am glad that I have been given extra money for the budget for which I am now responsible. We'll use it to the best of our ability. I do not think that there is an irresponsible situation, but should Mr Segers find some euros at the formation table, I recommend that he should.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u26	In the story in de Volkskrant, both the director of a vmbo school and the agent tell us that they do talk about it, but that in the end too little happens. How can we break that? That's their question. My question to the Minister is what he would like to say to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-2.u27	I'll tell the school principal, I understand the problem very well, but report it. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I'm gonna tell the school director and the district cop, if this happens, take it to the Security House and see what you're gonna do. Because there are so many good examples of district agents who come to schools, who have fixed agreements with them, who know the environment, who often know the families in question. We can be proud of the Dutch system of neighborly police. So take your own responsibility, but also indicate where others are needed. Then it'll be pushing and pulling, but please pick it up.
