ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	I call Mrs Dijksma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr President, good afternoon, also to the Minister. The Van Dale publishers have a wonderful phenomenon every year, namely that they are looking for the word of the year. The trouble is that this usually doesn't bring much good. That's how "treitervlogger" was last year's word of the year. From 2010, I remember the word "tolerant government." I'm afraid we've had another candidate since Saturday, the "fall penalty." That's a fine you get as an older man when you might fall more than three times. Instead of helping you, the health care institution moves the bill forward first. My simple question to the Minister is this. Is he, like the Labour Party, very indignant about this absurd fine and, if so, what is he going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor. I would also like to welcome him. Minister, for you too, it is the first time you have experienced Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for Mrs Dijksma's question. I sincerely hope that this word will not reach the Van Dale; a fine for the elderly. I read the newspaper on Saturday morning and immediately I thought: this is a really very strange story. As if a financial incentive helps to drop people less often. As if it's not much better, if there's been a lot of pushing on that button, just to get into the conversation to see what's behind it. That was reason to check with the two organizations, Aafje home care and De Merwelanden, how things are. In practice, both organisations say that they do not have any financial implications for the use of that alarm button and find it annoying that this article may lead to unrest and uncertainty for the elderly. The organisations also indicate that they do not send an account in response to the personal alarm. They have always followed the request for emergency aid. No complaints were received from these organisations either. I checked this with the Dutch Healthcare Authority, but no complaints were received there either. Both organisations indicate that they will engage with clients if they often make use of this emergency aid. That seems to me to be the right way forward. However, the organisations mentioned in the article do have a provision in their terms indicating a policy of discouragement. There is the possibility to charge an amount if there is indeed a lot of use of that alarm button. That's just not allowed. This is about insured care. No account can be sent following the follow-up after pressing that button. That is why I asked both organisations to amend that condition. Both organisations have indicated that they are working on this. I will, of course, be critical of this and I will also ask the relevant industry organisations, ActiZ and BTN, to make this clear to their members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	First of all, thank you to the Minister for this response. I think he is showing that, like many of us, he is taking this phenomenon seriously. We do not want to discourage the elderly, especially if they have to stay home longer, from asking for help when they are really in need. But this does raise a follow-up question. Probably because of clumsy communication policy from one of the two healthcare institutions we know this. By the way, one of the two health care institutions was quoted in the article: older people should know that this care is not free. Like they don't know that (A) because they just pay a subscription and (B) what kind of institution do you have when you talk about your clients like that? Apart from that, of course, the question is how often this happens even more often. The Minister's diligent search for these questions led us to stumble upon two institutions which apparently already have a policy of discouragement in their terms. How does the Minister know that this does not occur on a much larger scale? Is he prepared not only to inform the Chamber of this, but also to conduct active research that goes beyond mere contact with the interbranch organisation and to submit to us the outcome of the mid-December budget debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	First of all, I very much agree with Mrs Dijksma's approach. These things aren't supposed to happen. Even if these types of conditions are contained in an agreement, I still believe that this is contrary to everything that we have laid down by law. The Court has itself determined which care may or may not be subject to payment. An additional invoice, as was the idea here, is not possible at all. I do think that a closer investigation is a very big reaction. I think we should do this. Firstly, the provision must be adapted for these organisations. I'm going to follow that critically. Secondly, I am talking to industry organisations to make it clear to their members through them that such a provision can never be implemented because it is contrary to the law. Thirdly, it seems to me appropriate to keep the NZa sharp on this point and to ask the NZa if it recognizes this type of provision, encounters it more often and sometimes gets complaints about it. The answer to that question is at least no at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	I'm sorry if I can put it that way. We were just on our way with the moral indignation and also the disapproval, but the Minister should not get rid of it too easily. I believe that this research should be carried out precisely because institutions will not say by themselves: oh yes, we may have conditions that do not fully meet what the legislator has intended. Again, are you prepared to actively conduct a real investigation through the Dutch Healthcare Authority to answer the question of how often this occurs for the budget treatment in December? That can also be a sample; you don't have to visit all of them immediately. I am also saying this in the interest of this cabinet. You said beautifully last Friday: we are going to one rate in the Wmo, we want to help citizens not to pay too much. If, behind the back of this minister, all kinds of health care institutions are going to file bills for everything, and that is not the intention, then this minister is going to put the cart before the cart. This study is therefore also in the interest of the cabinet and above all of the elderly. They have a right, especially at this time, to be treated properly and not to be thrown away when they ask for emergency aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	When I hear Mrs. Dijksma like that, I can go with her. But here's what I'm gonna do. I have now checked with the NZa whether there are complaints about own payments for this type of personal alarm systems. An investigation requires you to check all the conditions of all the institutions to see if they are capable of doing so. I said there were no complaints at the NZa. I have said that we are going to talk to the trade associations so that they can address all their members. I am willing to do a large-scale sample of what this type of conditions look like with an x-number of other institutions through the NZa. We're not investigating it, because that suggests something bigger than I can do in such a short space of time. A sample of how other institutions deal with this, I would like to do with the NZa and with the industry organisations to see how this is regulated by other institutions. Was this an exception, for example, or is it more common? I fully agree that we have not subjected this type of own payments to a legal regime for nothing. If all kinds of bills can be passed on, then we're really not doing something right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	Finally, a sentence, because you have fifteen seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you for the commitment. I would like to see the letter back well in front of the budget. Then we can continue the debate during the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope that the word 'fall penalty' will be met by the Fat Van Dale and that it will be added as meaning: caused by the Labour Party, which closed the nursing homes, which cut back 600 million on community care, which transferred district care to the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	But the question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	Yes, Mr President, but I would have liked to correct this for the people at home. And then the Minister. I thought it was a weak story. I wonder whether the Minister immediately called the director who explained the whole scheme in the newspaper, to say that the concern is not his calling. We all remember the example of Mr. Van Beek, who was beginning to dement, fell down the stairs, didn't know what the button around his neck was for, hypothermia and died in the hospital. Tough people, high-aged people who press a button, are now entitled to this care under the Health Insurance Act. It's basic care, so why financial arrangements? I'm asking the Minister to confirm that when people call in emergency aid, that's basic concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I give the floor to Mrs Dijksma to respond to your comment. Without further exhorting Mrs. Agema, Mrs. Dijksma. It's customary, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	It's a personal fact. My group is being addressed, and I understand that very well. I would hope that where the Labour Party has wanted to make it possible, even in recent years, for the elderly to live at home for as long as possible, Mrs Agema and I are pulling up side by side, I have now understood with the Minister, in order to avoid what is simply not allowed, even under the current law. So let's reach out and fight this battle together. Then we are really a lot stronger, Mrs. Agema, than with this kind of ping-pong games on the interrupt microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	No, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	But, Mr. Chairman, I don't need qualifications...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	Just a moment, Mrs. Agema. I'll give you the floor in a minute, but viewers don't get it anymore. Oral questions are really meant for questions from the Chamber to the Cabinet. You are making a point to Mrs Dijksma. On the other hand, I would have done the same: if you had made a comment, you would have been given the floor. I would actually like to call on you to leave it at that, because I am sure you will encounter each other a few times in all kinds of debates and then you can also ask each other questions about everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In all these debates, I will always continue to appeal to the Labour Party to the fact that it has closed the nursing homes over the last few years and has made substantial cuts in community care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. In reply to Mrs Agema's question, she can be sure that both drivers have been called immediately and that we have made clear how we look at this type of provision. You're absolutely right. It is indeed about insured care. People are just entitled to a follow-up the moment that that alarm clock is pushed. It's already taken care of. The extent to which your own payments are acceptable in this respect is what you, as a parliament, went over at the time you passed the law. That cannot be avoided for a moment and so we have addressed the drivers very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	Second supplementary question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr President, this is a point of order. We voted against that law. So this was not the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	Okay. Fine. Then I will go to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The penalty was a new shock around health care. I would ask the Minister not only to put a question to the industry organisation, because it does not always understand what their members are doing, but also to ask the elderly unions, because they receive much more of this type of reaction. I would also like to hear from the Minister how he looks at the fact that it is possible that people are actually pressing a button because they are lonely, because I am just saying that a lot of facilities in the neighborhoods are being cut off and loneliness is an important point. How does he look at that and what is he going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	The first point is that I would like to ask the elderly's associations the same question and to take stock of whether they have heard of the prevention of such a fine. If we can prevent it from getting into the Van Dale, we certainly have to want to do so. So I'd like to put that question there, too. Then there is the second point. You know that I have been very intensive in Rotterdam with the theme of loneliness. I hope, with your support, that I will be working very intensively on this in the years to come from The Hague, because loneliness is a huge and widespread issue among all sections of the population. It is perhaps one of the greatest social issues of our time, so I am very happy and very intensively working on it. There is no doubt that we still have a great deal to talk about in what way and with what approach we should do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u30	It is good to hear from the Minister that both organisations concerned have indicated that they are going to remove this provision from the service contract. I think it is important to emphasise once again what I think you said: that in recent years no one has been paid extra by any older person who uses this service. At the moment, therefore, there is no reason to fear that this word, which I shall not repeat, will end up in the Van Dale. I would also like to say this because I find this report damaging both for the elderly, who have experienced unrest over the last few days, and for all those who work day and night at this organisation and many other elderly care organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u31	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u32	I come to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u33	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u34	We need so many people in care so incredibly, so this negative message does not help. My question is, in fact, how the Minister sees this, also in relation to the research he has just promised, which may cause unnecessary unrest again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u35	I do recognize a bit of what Mrs Hermans says. Indeed, I think that you should speak with caution about the actions of organisations in the care sector. Even if there are reports where you are frowning seriously with your eyebrows, you should always check the situation first. That's exactly what I did. I've been looking into the situation and I've noticed: okay, they don't send a bill. That's fine, of course. At the same time, I have also seen that there are two provisions in both service agreements that are simply not okay. I have spoken to the institutions about this, and I really think they should amend those provisions. They do; that's what they're going to do. On the second point: that negative reporting can be negative on the care, I find no reason not to go into very serious work with this type of message. So that's why I like to respond to Mrs Dijksma's request to just look at: what is true, were these exceptions, is this more common and how can we at least ensure that the word never gets to the Van Dale because it just never happens? I think it is important to do so, because there is also a certain level of protection in the direction of care. I also think that it helps to contradict, or confirm, stories, where, fortunately, soup is eaten less hot than it initially seemed to have been served, and therefore an approach can be adopted. So I would like to start with Mrs Dijksma's question in order to clarify to the Budget Chamber the extent to which this was an incident or that it might have been a little more widespread.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u36	I thank the Minister for that investigation, for the sample he's going to do. Very important, because this whole thing obviously points to a topical issue, and that is that many older people are falling. We also saw in the CBS figures of two weeks ago that more and more old people die after a fall. So it's really a big problem. In my view, what we need to look at in particular is the prevention of falls. That is of course in the nursing homes but especially for the people who live at home...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u37	And the question is, Mrs. Pia Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u38	The question is: what is the state of play with regard to the Minister? Attention is being paid to it. Is that enough? Or does he intend to do that even better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u39	You ask me this in my first week, about right after my appointment, so I find it a little presumptuous to give a judgment here whether that is enough. The fact is that there is indeed a need for prevention of falls to prevent older people falling too often, ending up in hospital and recovering very often after that. I think it is a good time, and perhaps this is a good reason, to engage with health insurers and with parties concerned about the question: is there enough or is there room for improvement at this point? If you look at the extent to which ERs in hospitals are dealing with fallen elderly people, you'd almost think there's definitely room for improvement. But before I have a judgment on this, let me first start talking to the industry organisations and the health insurance companies on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you.
