ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. This bill aims to abolish the possibility for political parties to form lists. The big question for the CDA group is: why? In the written procedure so far, the government has not been able to adequately answer this question. That is also the starting point for this debate. As is often the case, there are arguments for and against a proposal. That's what the government gives it. But a clear, compelling argument or line of thinking that justifies this bill is not to be found. The government only refers to a Lower House motion and here and there it speaks of the expectation that lists for Lower House elections are probably not the focus of a party merger for the time being. With these brief references, the government seems to look mainly at the past. My group does not see that the establishment of lists has no or less value if there are no concrete mergers in the pipeline. After all, even without mergers, the formation of lists is a valuable way of pooling political forces and joint will formation. My group's objection to the merger argument is the government's limited time horizon. Should list combinations be made possible again when mergers are in sight? The CDA Group explicitly points this out because the possibility of list combinations in the past has already been abolished and then re-established. We must avoid further legislation on this subject. After all, legislation is written for the longer future and is not just about the situation of the day, especially when it comes to voting rights. A record number of parties participated in the latest Parliamentary elections of 15 March 2017 and many parties have acquired one or more seats. This situation makes maintaining the possibility of pooling of forces relevant, with or without merger. An additional argument is to increase the transparency of the electoral system. The desire for abolition is also not convincing for other reasons. The focus on the national level of Lower House elections is too one-sided and too limited for a subject like this. The consultation phase was mainly used by the municipal side and the reactions from that side were mostly negative. My group understands that very well. It is precisely with the emergence of many local parties that lists can be useful for joint will formation and transparency for the electorate and thus also contribute to the governance of a municipality. Participation in list combinations is open to all parties and the residual seat distribution system does not benefit the larger or smaller participant in advance. The impact of this system of residual seat distribution depends entirely on the actual result of the election. The limited focus on the national level of the Lower House does not do justice to the provinces either. For provinces where the relative power of the parties sometimes differs, it is important to keep lists, including with a view to a balanced election of the members of the Upper Chamber. This is also something that the government is ignoring. The government referred to transparency, transparency of the system as an argument for abolishing the system of list combinations. This argument cannot be supported by the CDA Group. After all, the right to vote as such is partly complex and opaque by its very nature. But it is precisely the system of list combinations that is very transparent. List combinations are clearly displayed on ballots and everyone can see that spirit-related groups are joining forces. The voter can take this into account in his or her choice. The fact that the electorate does not have the system of residual seat distribution itself directly in place does not change that. This also applies to the main system of residual seat distribution. In the conviction of the CDA Group, the system offers clarity by articulating spirit relations. In addition, the effect in practice shows that there are clear patterns of list combinations over the years, both nationally and at provincial level. The residual seat distribution within frame combinations differs from the method used for the overall residual seat distribution. The CDA Group cannot see why this difference would play a role in eliminating list combinations. In our group's view, it is quite obvious that the system of the largest surpluses is being applied within lists. Otherwise, a residual seat within a list combination would almost by definition always belong to the largest party within that combination, which, of course, is not a good basis for cooperation between relatives. At the general residual seat distribution, a distribution is in line with the largest averages of the hand, as this is in line with the electorate's wish over the width. I would like a response from the Minister to this consideration. The CDA Group sees in practice that both larger and smaller parties participate at national level and that participating parties cover the entire political spectrum. In view of this, why should abolition be the issue? And why the rush? Or can the Minister promise that the proposal will not enter into force before the 2018 municipal elections, should it be adopted? It is clear that my group has not so far been convinced of the desirability of this legislative proposal. I therefore await with interest the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. My good colleague Thom de Graaf could not be here today because of activities elsewhere. It is my duty today to replace him as worthyly as possible on behalf of the D66 Group. The proposal to abolish the possibility of list combinations with a view to acquiring residual seats was developed in the Lower House and incorporated into this bill by the government. My group has already expressed its support for this amendment in its written preparation. In the opinion of my group, it has proved sufficient and convincingly supported by the government that a list combination of elections has effects that no longer correspond to the original intentions of this figure. In practice, the list combination appears only to be used to obtain as many residual seats as possible for one's own or a spirit-related party. With the government, therefore, we believe that the use of this instrument, in conjunction with the current method of residual seat sharing, leads to the miraculous and unjustified situation that a party to which more votes have been cast will eventually have fewer seats than a party to which fewer votes have been cast, but which has entered into a list combination. Political strategy may, in other words, result in a vote for one party giving a seat to another party. We believe that, in a democracy, a electoral system whereby votes cast are, in principle, put to the vote of the party which actually received those votes is preferable. Our parliamentary democracy has been substantially colonised by the political parties for several decades. For this reason, in the footsteps of German state law-scholar Gerhard Leibholz, since the 1970s we have been talking about party democracy rather than electoral democracy. I do not think that continuing the list combination as a special form of party political politicisation of the electoral system would be attractive in that respect. The government is also right to point out that the original function of the list combination, i.e. the adaptation to a party political merger, has been out of the picture. For some time now we have been observing that the combination of lists is being used by certain ideology-driven political parties as a strategy to generate more political power than is justified on the basis of direct electoral support. However, with the combination of the list link and the system of the residual seat distribution, the aim of a parliament composed as evenly as possible is crossed. It is also important to observe that the possibility of entering into a list combination has not been introduced to meet the small parties. Both large and small parties can establish a list link. The chance of an extra seat is equal for both large and small parties. In other words, the system is neutral compared to the batch size. In this context, the advice of the Election Board to leave the method of residual seat allocation intact when the list combination is abolished must apparently be understood. With the government, we believe that the existing residual seat distribution systems fit within the system of proportional representation. I would like to make a few comments on the arguments put forward by the opponents of this amendment. My group does not understand why it would be more democratic if a vote could be taken by a group that is ideologically or politically close. My group would rather think that it is more justified from a democratic point of view that a vote on a party should actually benefit that party. I also find it difficult to understand the argument that the abolition of the list combination would lead to a deterioration of the political landscape and a reduction in diversity in the representative bodies. I have one more question. Does the Government intend to bring this proposal into force at the appropriate time? I like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal we are discussing has been welcomed by the VVD Group. During the written preparation we asked some questions. We thank the Minister for his reply. It is customary for us to ask ourselves every legislative proposal: is there a problem? And if so, does this bill solve the problem? Both questions are answered in the affirmative by my group. Yeah, there's a problem. The list combination makes it possible for party A with fewer votes than party B to have more seats. This is contrary to the principle of proportional representation. That is why, as far as we are concerned, the list combination should be abolished. This is not just an arithmetic or theoretical possibility. It has happened quite a few times, namely in the election of the House of Representatives and the European Parliament. And it stirs up the moods. That's what President Trump's election in the United States has shown. Although that unrest has disappeared again when it turned out that President Kennedy was also elected with fewer votes than his opponent. The deletion of the list combination raises objections. I would like to summarize it as follows. 1. Without a list combination, residual party A votes may end up with party B which is opposite A. 2. Party C may decide for itself whether the remaining votes shall be attached to Party D of the same mind. 3. The desire for cooperation can be expressed by means of a combination of lists. 4. The system of the largest averages (GG) is detrimental to smaller parties. 5. This disadvantage was offset by the list combination. It's gotta stay that way. 6. The system of the largest averages with its adverse effect on smaller parties can be replaced by the system of the largest surpluses (GO), which is neutral in terms of party size. 7. This replacement of the GG system by the JU system must take place at the same time as the list combination is abolished. The VVD Group does not share these concerns. I would like to explain that. The fear that residual votes will end up with a party that thinks completely differently is incorrect. There's no risk of that. The largest averages shall be calculated solely by the votes obtained by a party itself. Every vote counts to the last. In the case of the largest surpluses, residual votes will be lost. They're not being transported to another batch. There is, however, the possibility of holding the votes together within a list combination. Thus a larger block is formed with more chance of an additional seat. With GG by slowing down the average. At GO by greater chance of a full seat. All parties can use the list combination in this way. However, the list combination has an important disadvantage. This may result in a party with fewer votes being given more seats than any other party. This outcome clashes with our system of representation. That assumes: more votes = more seats. My group believes that this basic rule should be given priority. The list combination should deviate from that main rule. How does the Minister see this? My group does not share the argument of cooperation. Cooperation between the parties is always important, not only at the time when the election results are determined, but also at other times. In addition, cooperation can take place in all kinds of ways other than by mentioning it on the ballot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u5	I have a question about the rest seats. Mr Schouwenaar rightly notes that one party may have fewer votes than another party, but still obtains a seat. At the rest seats it may also happen that a party has more than one rest seat. We are now taking away the compensation that goes against it with the list combinations. Isn't it better to wait and do those things at the same time? I understand from what Mr Schouwenaar said that he is not entirely happy with the system of the largest averages either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u6	I'm glad I'm standing here and getting to talk about this. The system of the largest averages has certain disadvantages. Mr Schalk mentions one of them. In doing so, it is possible that the system contained in the calculation is that a lot gets more than one residual seat. Whether or not this should be compensated, at least it has not been the intention of the legislator. I do not think it is right to correct a mistake, if I may call it that, with another mistake. The failure of the largest averages, the point of criticism in this respect, must not be corrected by another phenomenon, that of the list combination, which is even more critical. That seems to me to be a mistake. Then it's easier to just delete the list combination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u7	We should not link these two things together, but I understand that Mr Schouwenaar believes that in future something should be done about the current distribution through the largest averages.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u8	Mr Schalk has a vision. He's three pages ahead of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u9	I don't have a vision. I listened to Mr Schouwenaar's speech. That's where I taste it and I'm asking for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u10	I wrote it down. If I do not return to it, Mr Schalk will have to correct and correct me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u11	But it's through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u12	Of course, and within the speaking time. However, my group shares the objection that the system of the largest averages is detrimental to smaller parties. But the ideal system of seat distribution does not exist. And whatever system we choose, it should not result in fewer votes being able to create more seats. Any effects of the residual seat distribution will have to remain within these limits; within the limits of proportional representation. We ask the Minister whether he agrees with this position of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u13	Mr Schouwenaar states that this should not result in a party who has obtained more votes being given a seat perhaps less than a party who has entered into a list combination, but is the party who has gained more seats absolutely free to enter a list combination? It's just a possibility that exists for everyone. One party uses it and the other doesn't. If you don't, you don't get the benefits that go with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u14	That is true, but the choice between achieving this advantage does not belong in the law as far as we are concerned. It is a false point, whereby votes are added together for a while and then released. A certain capacity is being adopted which is necessary to obtain more votes, but then it is being released. The fact that there are parties making use of this possibility is absolutely right. It is good that these parties do so, from their point of view, but it is a possibility in the law that we consider to be wrong in principle. That is why we believe that it should be deleted. Then the argument of compensation. The system of the largest averages is indeed more beneficial to large parties and can be more detrimental to small parties. This would then be compensated by the possibility of a list combination. My group does not agree with this. In 1973, it was not intended to compensate for the adverse effect of the largest averages on small parties. Perhaps in 1973 a minority of the Election Council wanted this, but the majority in the Chamber decided otherwise. I base myself on the historian Dr. Ron de Jong of that same Election Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u15	Mr Schouwenaar always associated this system with compensation for small parties, but does he not see that, without any consideration of compensation, the list combinations can also have an independent value, namely pooling of forces and political will?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u16	Bundling of powers and political will are fine. In my opinion, it is not appropriate for us to make a lot of statements about this at the moment. It is only that forces and political will continue throughout the year and the entire period, and this can be done in a variety of ways. This is not only possible by means of the list combination, only at the time when the election results are determined. It is therefore not an indispensable opportunity to work together and work together. I'm going back to the compensation for the smaller parties. I still owe this answer to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. There is no question of losing any compensation, since there was never any compensation, so there is nothing to make up for now either. As an alternative to the largest averages is mentioned the set of the largest surpluses, because this is neutral in terms of party size. That's right. However, the system of the largest surpluses also has disadvantages. For example, a party with a very small surplus can secure a full seat. Another disadvantage of the system of the largest surpluses is that the surpluses of parties who do not have a residual seat will be abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u17	I would like some clarification on Mr Schouwenaar's last words. I'll start with his second point, which is the most fresh in memory. Is it not the case that the system of the largest averages also eliminates the surpluses obtained by the parties who do not obtain a residual seat? Why, then, does Mr Schouwenaar think that this argument discriminates in favour of the system of the largest surpluses?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u18	There is no surplus in the system of the largest averages. Each vote shall count again with each subsequent calculation, up to the end. This is why the system of the largest surpluses is called surpluses. From the point of view of representative democracy, we believe that all the votes cast should be used. All the votes count. The fact that this system does not comply with it is a minor flaw. That minus isn't so crazy in itself. Each of these systems, which has been counted and redesigned for decades and which has been considered for decades, have advantages and disadvantages. I can therefore very well imagine that someone prefers the largest averages to the largest surpluses, but I think it is useful to mention that none of these systems is without disadvantages or without benefits at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u19	We can all endorse that. However, I asked a question about the specific argument put forward by Mr Schouwenaar. I have to conclude that we are obviously calculating differently. The system of the largest averages also takes all votes into consideration, but ultimately the remaining seats go to a few parties with the largest averages. The remaining votes of the parties who do not have the right to vote do not ultimately count in determining the distribution of seats. There is no other way, but that is the same disadvantage that applies to the other system. I have a second question on Mr Schouwenaar's first argument. He said that within the system of largest surpluses with a very small surplus you can already get an extra seat. That is true, but with the system of largest averages you can already get a few extra seats with a negative surplus. In this respect, too, the system of the largest averages is much worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u20	Mr Köhler is now mixing the two systems into a third system, the name of which I do not yet know. He has to keep things apart. He is now putting forward what he said earlier, namely that the largest averages would be surpluses. However, there are no such surpluses. Again, the break that is made, with a counter and a denominator, is always made with all the votes cast. This is not the case with the system of the largest surpluses. Again, that's not surprising. They are all methods of achieving the mathematically greatest representation possible. The systems all have something in them that they never fully come up with. It's up to us to choose between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u21	Finally, Mr Köhler, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u22	I am afraid that Mr Schouwenaar and I are speaking a little bit along. Mr Schouwenaar said that a disadvantage of the system of the largest surpluses is that with a very small surplus you can already get a residual seat. I asked him: is it not on the other hand that the system of the largest averages, if there is no surplus at all, is it possible to get a few residual seats? Doesn't that distort the results much anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u23	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u24	In Mr Schouwenaar's speech, I am listening to a pure weighting of the disadvantages of the various systems of residual seat distribution. Especially for an optimistic party like the VVD, the pessimistic view is striking. In fact, the VVD says that we will not find good; we have to live with the best possible suboptimal solution. My question is whether there is a little more optimism in this by looking at whether, in addition to the two options outlined by Mr Schouwenaar, another option is not possible or conceivable. We do not have to think of that ourselves, because there are still a lot of better-looking headlines without being scornful about Mr Schouwenaar and the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Can we not think about taking steps at this point? I am thinking, for example, of a certain percentage of the electorate, which must in any case have been achieved before a residual seat can be granted. If, for example, that were to be 0.75% or 0.8%, we would have a very different appreciation of the system of the largest surpluses than just counting down. I think there are some intermediate forms to think of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u25	I think so, too. I'm pretty sure about that. I'm glad Mrs Bikker agrees. I'm sorry I can't match her unbridled optimism. However, I will continue to do my best. I hope I can sit next to Mrs Bikker for a very long time to be inspired by her, but that is not what she meant. Again, I think it is. Mrs Bikker has the same foresight as the SGP, because I would have liked to mention this a little further in my story. I would like to make that point, if she wishes to do so, but I am now completely out of my mind, but perhaps it would be better to stick to the line of my speech as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u26	You would have stuck to the last point in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u27	Exactly. In any case, I wanted to make it clear that every system has its drawbacks. I come to my final point, keeping this bill until a better system of seat distribution has been found. Mrs Bikker mentioned that. My group is happy to look for improvement. Does the Minister have that willingness? That search may take a long time and it is not certain that that search will lead to success. In the meantime, the possibility remains that new examples of fewer votes and still more seats will be created. We consider this situation undesirable, because it does not correspond to the principle of proportional representation. That is why we want to eliminate this contradiction as soon as possible. All in all, my group believes that this is a good proposal. We await with interest the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u28	I have a question, if Mr Schouwenaar still has time. Once again, at the end of the speech, you will come back to the problem that you could have more seats with fewer votes. But there are also examples, for example 1986, in which a party had four remaining seats. Four rest seats, I can't explain that at all. At some point, the rest is up after all if you've shared once, you'd almost think. In other words, is that what you would choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u29	You said it yourself: in the system of the largest averages, because that is what you are referring to, there are no remaining votes. So in that respect, it's never gone. It is an outcome that sounds a little less sympathetic to you and you are looking for improvement. In this search we are happy to go with you, but it is certain that the list combinations will reveal shortcomings that we can now easily remedy. So I'd like to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u30	The example I mentioned was not named from envy because a party would get four. Last election, for example, the VVD was given two seats. I would like to give her my heartfelt thanks, but it is a question of whether the distribution of the remaining seats is going to happen properly at the moment and whether we should not do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u31	I very much agree with you. It is not a question of whether we should have the system of the largest surpluses or the system of the largest averages. That's what the law says. The question is this: is compensation for that disadvantage a reason to allow the list combination to exist? Of this, I say that the list combination must be abolished and compensation for something that can be compensated is an error. Maybe I can clarify it with an example from sport. There's a referee who makes a mistake. He accidentally gives a penalty kick, a penalty throw or a shootout he shouldn't have given. He realizes that too and then goes a little further into the game to give the other party a gift. That referee knows better than anyone, but so do you and I, he doesn't straighten it out. It'll only be twice as difficult for him. It's not like in the algebra that's twice minus plus. It'll be double trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u32	I would like to thank Mr Schouwenaar very much for his answer, because there was also a hint of optimism in it, from my perspective, namely that he would like to keep the method of residual seat distribution in the light of the way I listen to it because he clearly sees the disadvantage for smaller parties. But, he finds out, the list connection is wrong. Then he uses a sports metaphor. If we stay in that metaphor, does Mr Schouwenaar prefer a referee who doesn't make the mistake? He's now making one mistake, which could still make a huge mess of the game. If the referee grants a wrong penalty at the last minute, the Netherlands cannot be a world champion. That could be a very big deception. So I ask Mr Schouwenaar whether it is not wiser to replace the referee or to think about what would be a good rule for both mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u33	Mr Schouwenaar, answer this question, but let the metaphor with football continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u34	I'd also like to choose another branch of sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u35	Drop the sport at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u36	Okay, then we don't. Of course, I hope that has come to the fore........................................................................................................................................................................................... It happens all the time. So you will find us by your side in that regard. In the meantime, however, we do not think it is right to allow this obvious shortcoming to continue without any convincing reason as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u37	Thank you very much, Mr Schouwenaar. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u38	Mr. Chairman. What's the point of the list link? The authors of the motion for a resolution on which this proposal is based were certainly on that. The added value of the list link to our representative democracy is no longer there. The Minister accepts that reasoning and ignores the opinion of the Council of State on an earlier amendment with the same aim. From that opinion, one thing became crystal clear: the elimination of list combinations cannot be separated from the residual seat distribution. The Minister is now opting for the deletion of one, without taking measures for the effects on the other. Does the current way of working give rise to problems? Has the current system not been functioning satisfactorily for a long time? At least the Minister himself was satisfied in 2013. What problems has he seen since then? Are there not also more important issues when looking for ways of strengthening the democratic system? In any case, my group is experiencing an unjustified contraction in the argument for introducing the possibility of the list combination, namely the desire for a merger of parties. The second argument for the list link at the time of introduction was that this is a small compensation for the negative effects of the residual seat distribution system. That deserves more weight than it gets in this bill. The abolition has an impact on the size of parties, both European and national, provincial and local. The VVD rightly quoted in the written preparation from the great Van der Pot/Donner that the system of largest averages works at the expense of small parties. The Minister now maintains that a possible correction was not the aim of the list combination when lifting the ban, but only one as a result. It is precisely for this reason that my group would like to ask him to respond to the opinion of the Council of State on the abolition of the list combination and the relationship with the residual seat distribution system. The Council of State wrote: "The establishment of lists may be a way of compensating smaller parties for this. This was explicitly acknowledged when the lists were introduced in 1973. On the basis of the Opinion of the Election Council on the proposal, the Government considered that "that cooperation before the elections may result in a list of links giving the cooperating parties one or more seats more than would have been the case in the event of separate action should, in the opinion of these members, not only be regarded as a premium or incentive for such cooperation, but may also provide a happy correction in itself to the existing system of granting residual seats."' This is a material consequence of the list combination, at the time called "a happy correction." Why doesn't the Minister want that happy correction? Why don't the big parties choose a little more restraint here? How many complaints has the Minister received from voters about the current state of affairs? Indeed, the correction factor was recognised in the 1989 revision of the Decree-Law and expressed at the time by a large majority of the Court when rejecting an amendment seeking to delete the list combination. Are there any new arguments now? This proposal is particularly felt by smaller parties. The impact on them at local and provincial level is too low. The Minister also mentions side by side that this proposal provides clarification for the electorate. The D66 Group pointed out in the written preparation that the parties could draw up a joint list and, after the elections, sit as separate political groups in the representative body. How would the Minister feel about that? Has not the desired clarity gone up completely in smoke? Isn't it much clearer to express ideological kinship through a list link? What's the voter's use? The possibility of a list combination became part of the Dutch electoral system in 1973, on the advice of the State Commission-Cals/Donner. At that time, the first argument was the encouragement to the association of parties. Our parliamentary history also has examples of this: in 1980 the CDA, 1990 GroenLinks and in 2001 my own party, the Christian Union. There are now pessimists and optimists, we have noticed it before today, but since then there have been regular noises about a left-wing spring and possible left-wing cooperation. The Minister is aware of this and has a view on it, but he does not consider the list link to be necessary to encourage it. I'd like to ask him what he's basing that on. He could also see the council elections of 2018 as a test ground for his favourite new merger between the PvdA and GroenLinks. How does he know this instrument is working out locally? In any case, I know from local practice that the list link works precisely as an organized contact moment and that it is helpful in the growth of the confidence that is needed in order to perhaps make the possible leap from cooperation to association one day. The Netherlands has always been proud of the system of proportional representation. The concept of equal can be explained differently. This is evident from the considerations behind the choice of a residual seat distribution system. But it cannot be denied that this proposal ultimately affects the small parties. Now the Minister still has a chance to make a pass and take a pause for thought, to see if it is wise to do one thing and leave the other, precisely because I know him as a fan of our system of proportional representation. It has already been produced by the PvdA Group in the written round and it has also been recognised by the Minister that this is a proposal that falls within the scope of the role of the State Committee. It is precisely the future of the parliamentary system, the position of the parties and the organisation of elections that this committee will look into. Is it true that the Minister wants to keep pace, but that there are no further obstacles to keeping this proposal until the opinion of the State Commission is available? Speaking of speed: the March 2018 council elections are very close and, according to the consultation round, there is a lot of resistance to the proposal. Given the time of the elections and the local support, will the Minister consider allowing the proposal to enter into force only in April 2018 if it is adopted? I started with: what use is the list connection? It may be an instrument to further provide a basis of confidence for a growing love between parties; the opposite has not yet appeared to me. In any case, it is a happy correction to our residual seat distribution system by means of the largest averages. In doing so, the abolition of the list link has an impact on the size of parties and, in particular, on small parties. Now that the future of our parliamentary system is the subject of investigation by the State Committee, my group considers it wise to wait for that opinion first. I therefore look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. I was thinking, for a moment, what debate did I get into, with left-wing spring and planned mergers preferred by ministers? However, let me confine myself to the list link and what is related to it. In some legislative proposals, you sometimes think: what problem will be solved here? I fear that the proposal before us now falls into this category with regard to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. And if I understood correctly, the Minister responsible had not been high on his list list of priorities either. That this bill is there, we owe it to a motion from the VVD which, as the Christian Union put it in the House of Representatives, was submitted "sensually after noon" and finally adopted. Frankly, my group recognizes itself in that observation. We do not recall that there has been a great sense of social displeasure or a broad public debate on the basis of this bill. Also the banners or the website Road with the Listconnection.nl, or if necessary. Uh, my group has never seen it. If I remember correctly, in 2006, through the Citizen Forum Election System, for the last time, systematically asked the electorate what could be improved on the way in which our electoral system is structured. That Civil Forum, then prepared by Minister Thom de Graaf and established by his successor Pechtold, travelled city and country to hear the voter about what could be done better. Nice recommendations were then made on this subject. In these rounds and also in the final opinion, as far as I remember, no voter has raised a problem with the list link. However, this electoral representation had a strong preference for the system of the largest surpluses in the distribution of the residual seats. The possibility of establishing a list connection existed between 1917 and 1923 and was abolished because the system was not found to be transparent. The word "transparent" was not in fashion at the time. In 1973 the possibility was incorporated back into the law, and strengthened in 1989, inter alia, to facilitate merger movements between parties. It is particularly important that transparency has been ensured from that point on. Any voter may see whether a list link has been established by the party or parties to whom he or she intends to vote. Since the introduction of the list link, many local, provincial and national parties have made full use of the possibility. Also by parties who voted in the Lower House for the abolition of the list link. How principled can you be? But there's nothing wrong with that, and it just makes sense. Political parties prefer that remaining voices can be exchanged with spirit-related parties rather than that they end up with a competitor on the other side of the political spectrum. And if you look at the practical examples in the explanatory memorandum, you can also see that in almost all cases parties actually establish lists with related clubs: liberal with liberal, Christian with Christian, left with left or progressive with progressive. We have never examined it, but I would not be surprised if the voter has little problem with it in the majority. Critics argue that the list connection can be unfairly unpacked. It led to strategic behavior at First Chamber elections, as the list link after the Provincial State election could still be entered into. It is right that this possibility has now been removed from the indirect election. We're not going to get back to that. It is also perceived as 'unfair', which has sometimes been the case, particularly in the case of European elections, for a party with fewer votes to have a seat than a competitor, thanks to the list link entered into. Moreover, this is more likely to occur in the case of a small number of seats to be distributed than in the case of more seats to be distributed. This would be solved by looking at a different form of residual seat distribution, but that is not what this bill is about. If you look at the collaborative blocks, left with left and liberal with liberal, that also means again. Abolition of the list link while maintaining the current residual seat distribution system, which is what this bill means, but that means that large parties are more likely to have a residual seat. Perhaps that was not the intention of the proposers of the motion, but that is, undoubtedly unintentionally, a result of the legislative proposal. For the Acts: in this sense some irony should sound; you do not read that back. The current practice in elections since 1973 is that political parties of all tastes and at all elections where they can, like to seek out their kindred spirits to exchange remaining votes. As far as my group is concerned, there is little wrong with that. Almost all parties participate, including those who have initiated this legislation by means of a motion. And to those parties, but also to the minister, I ask whether it is not right for confidence in politics, that the vote of the electorate ends up with a spirited relative instead of one party on the other flank. A logical list link is generally well understood by the electorate and is also common practice. In other words, will most right-conservative voters not rather want their remaining right-wing votes to be divided rather than left-wing ones? Or the other way around, of course. What would be better for confidence in politics? We would like to hear from the Minister what he thinks is going wrong with our electoral system if this law is not passed. Between 8,000 and 14,000 votes turned out not to be counted afterwards on 15 March because we do not see a chance to count reliably electronically. Honestly, that seems to us to be a bigger problem to solve. Maybe we should talk about that with the Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin my contribution by singing praises to our Dutch system of proportional representation, as enshrined in the Constitution. In elections to our Parliament, for Provincial States and for Municipal Councils, the seats are distributed among the parties in proportion to the number of votes they have received. As a result, our elected representatives are representative of the electorate. Compare this with France, for example, with its district system. There a party with less than a third of the votes gets more than 60% of the seats in the House of Representatives, so that parliament does not represent the political preferences of the French people at all. The SP considers our system of proportional representation to be a great success. My party is therefore opposed to our electoral system, such as the introduction of a voting threshold of more than one seat. On this basis, we are assessing the proposal to amend the Election Act that we are discussing this afternoon. The purpose of this proposal is to delete the possibility of linking up electoral lists. The list combination was introduced at the time to allow parties wishing to cooperate closely to express this on the ballot. The practical consequence is that the votes of the combined lists are added before the seats are distributed. This will allow the parties combining their lists to obtain more seats. A list combination is obvious for parties who want to work closely together even after the elections, for example because they are in a merger process or because they are bound together on the basis of a ballot box agreement even after the elections. In practice, however, these forms of cooperation are virtually non-existent. The possibility of combining lists is used to transfer residual votes to a related party, so that more residual seats end up with the parties to the list combination. That is not bad in itself, and it is also an open process. After all, the list combination has been mentioned on the ballot, although few voters will fully understand its meaning. But it does lead to more seats being placed on parties that have found a related party than on parties that do not. For example, in the last European elections, D66 received four seats with 15.5% of the votes, while the CDA received five seats with 15.2%, thanks to the remaining votes on the joint list of Christian Union/SGP. But the CDA and Christian Union/SGP also had no cooperation around these elections and joined various political groups in the European Parliament. In the same election, the SP won two seats by 9.6% of the votes, while the PvdA won three seats by 9.4% thanks to a list link with GroenLinks. After the elections, the PvdA and GroenLinks also joined various political groups in the European Parliament. In my group's view, this process is detrimental to the desire for proportional representation: a party with fewer votes will have more seats. As mentioned above, the SP strongly supports a system of proportional representation as clear as possible and the SP is not in favour of electoral rules that make election results crooked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u41	I note that the examples rightly mentioned by the SP spokesperson are all examples of the distribution of a small number of residual seats. Now the side effect of abolishing the list link is that small parties are no longer included in a large number of residual seats. Is there an intermediate variant for the SP, in the sense that, only in the case that there is a small number of residual seats to be distributed by default, as is the case in the European system, you say: that is so unfair; that is what happens more often? That is different from that very occasional time when it happens in all the other elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u42	Mrs Bikker is right in her argument. This also applies to council elections. That is usually also about fewer seats. That is where this will occur more often as a result of our undesirable phenomenon. There are currently no different proposals for the different forms of elections. If they were, we would then have to weigh them again. So I don't have a clear answer to that question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u43	In municipal elections, the remaining seats in small councils are awarded in a different way than in large councils?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u44	Yeah, that's right. In all elections with fewer than nineteen seats to be distributed, the system of largest surpluses is applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u45	Has this not been the intention of the legislator to avoid the disproportionate advantage that the average weighting system gives you in small councils?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u46	Yes, Mr Lintmeijer is right, but my examples of the European elections are the most recent examples I have found. They deal with the distribution of 26 seats, so that was above that standard. Nevertheless, these 26 seats have had this effect, which we consider undesirable in the context of proportional representation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u47	So you can solve that very well with another system of residual seat distribution at small numbers of seats to distribute. You don't have to cancel the list connections for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u48	That could also be done in this specific example if you raise that limit to 30 seats, where that other system is going to apply. But that proposal is not before us either. That too might have been discussable for us, but that is not what we are talking about. The SP therefore attaches great importance to a system of electoral rules that is as unambiguous as possible so as not to distort the outcome of the election. From this point of view, the possibility of linking up lists as they currently exist can be better abolished. The establishment of lists is not an important means of promoting close cooperation between the parties. The most effective ballot box agreement from our parliamentary history, Point 72 of PvdA, D'66 at the time with apostrophes and PPR, played its part in a period when combining lists was not possible. And parties in a process of unification can submit a joint list, as the GroenLinks forming parties did in 1990. There is nothing to prevent parties that go together in the post-election period from having their political groups act de facto as one group. Considering these advantages and disadvantages of the present proposal, my group is inclined to support it, in particular because we are in favour of the most unambiguous possible rules, which will benefit the system of proportional representation as much as possible. But from that point of view, the abolition of the possibility of combining election lists also has an important disadvantage. This is about the way in which residual seats are distributed in our country: according to the system of the largest averages and not according to the system of the largest surpluses. Mr President, if you want to hold me to speaking time, you have to turn the clock back on. In this way, a party that gets enough votes for 2.8 seats may not get a rest seat, so two seats are represented, while a party that gets 30.1 seats gets two remaining seats, so with 32 seats is represented. Strictly speaking, you can find the system of the largest averages in accordance with proportional representation, but in practice it brings about a very undesirable distortion as far as my group is concerned. It favours the larger parties over the smaller parties. The SP is therefore in favour of the system of largest surpluses. The possibility of connecting lists is a good correction in this respect. When a smaller party participates in a list combination, it enters a larger block that has the same chance of residual seats as a larger one. Moreover, the residual seats of a list combination are divided within the combination according to the system of largest surpluses. This will serve as purely proportional representation as we wish. As far as SP is concerned, therefore, the elimination of the possibility of combining lists could best go hand in hand with changing the way in which the residual seats are distributed: from the system of the largest averages to the system of the largest surpluses. I am curious to hear the response of the Minister and the spokesmen of the other groups on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Köhler. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u50	Mr. Chairman. The starting point for the government, and also, I think, for all of us here, is that the mandate in Article 53 (1) of the Constitution for the Lower House and in Article 129 (2) for Municipal Councils and Provincial States must be fulfilled as far as possible, namely that these representative bodies should be chosen "on the basis of proportional representation." The law regulates this further, and the bill we are discussing now is about how the law regulates it. The debate on this, and even the mere fact that this proposal seeks to change the rules in force, proves that this basis of equal representation is not one-sided. In my opinion, "fair representation" is not entirely identical to democratic, but for the sake of convenience we can ask ourselves what we think is most democratic in the choices that have been made under this bill, such as whether or not to allow list connections, but also how to deal with residual seats. The government's justification for the proposal to no longer allow list connections is essentially its conclusion that list connections do not or hardly any longer lead to merging, to mergers of the parties concerned and that it is therefore fairer (democratic?) is to give any party that appears to want to continue to operate independently, but not the chance to hold more seats with limited cooperation only during the elections. Those who want to keep list connections as an option find it fairer (democratic?) to give parties who feel related on ideological grounds or more generally because of their political choices the opportunity as a group to reach the number of seats that their group would achieve if they really were one party. Even if that means that a party from such a group by getting an extra seat becomes bigger than another party with more votes. This is justified because the additional seat gives a proportional representation, not to one specific party, but to a group of key issues, even if the elected representatives of the European Parliament are in different groups. The same is also happening in the Lower House, where those who have been elected also end up in different groups. Without claiming that one is more democratic than the other, this latter reasoning appeals to me most. As far as I am concerned, this applies both to the House of Representatives and to Councils and States, because the situations are fundamentally comparable. Nor do I feel that lists make the electoral process or the distribution of seats more opaque, as the government seems to think. Very briefly, I would like to comment on the method of distribution of residual seats in general, which has been the subject of a lot of discussion in the run-up to this debate and also this afternoon. Here again, I believe that the system of distribution on the basis of the highest averages and the system of the largest surpluses can be defended from a democratic point of view. The issue is not really under discussion, of course, but if we are talking about transparency, which the Minister does mention in his reply note when he talks about the disadvantages of list connections, that is precisely what is clearly relevant in this regard. For most people, a system based on the largest surpluses is by far the most understandable. After all, it is very easy to explain, completely contrary to the system of the largest averages where it really takes a lot of persuasion to convince people that that is not really undemocratic either. Understandability is also an aspect of democracy, isn't it? Doesn't the Minister agree? So we might be able to discuss this again, but in the context of this debate, of course, that does not immediately produce anything concrete. A search for something better, as highlighted in the discussion with Mr Schouwenaar, has my full support. I may not have made the Minister happy, but I don't think I made him very unhappy with this either. Maybe I'll hear from him that he can understand me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u51	Mr. Chairman. A hundred years after the introduction of universal suffrage in 1917 and thus the system of proportional representation, we are talking today about this bill. That's a memorable moment, isn't it? A voter must be able to trust in our electoral system that his vote is also due to the list of his preference and that this is translated into the result in proportion. The explanatory memorandum to this legislative proposal rightly points out that it is difficult for the system of representation aimed at as proportionate as possible to be slightly crossed by a list combination. Those parties with list combinations may receive more seats than any other party that has actually received more votes. This makes list combinations unclear, insufficiently transparent and therefore undesirable. That is why it is a good thing that this bill seeks to put an end to this practice. A practice which, according to the extensive parliamentary history of this bill, was literally referred to as "chooser deception" in a previous ban on list connections in 1923. This proposal concerns an amendment to the Kieswet, a law whose implementation in a broader sense is not optimal in 2017. The exercise of the right to vote by the Dutch electorate is therefore sometimes not easy. During the last Lower House elections there were many organisational problems to report, such as not receiving ballots in time, insufficient voting forms in the polling stations and thousands of non-county votes in different municipalities, as has now been shown. The independent nature of the polling office is also under pressure, for example in Amsterdam, where a polling station is located in a Dyanet mosque, filled with Turkish propaganda. After complaints about this, the municipality of Amsterdam was forced to intervene. The fact that, in addition to these concerns about the effective exercise of voting rights, there is also an untransparent and unbalanced system around the distribution of residual seats by list combinations does not help the strength of our electoral system. The current system for list combinations was introduced in 1973, during a period when some parties were referred to it also earlier, experimenting with ballot agreements, such as the shadow cabinet of PvdA, D66 and PPR under the heading Turning Point '72 and the 1971 emergency programme of KVP, ARP and CHU. Now that we are more than 40 years ahead, joint electoral programmes between combined parties no longer exist, but they still benefit from the bonus of list combination seats introduced at the time. It is now limited to a non-binding vote on relatives. For parties that actually support this endeavour, good alternatives are possible, such as a common list of candidates or the formation of a merger. However, a voice on relatives undermines the unique character of a party and acts neutralizingly vis-à-vis competing parties. What remains is a gray midget of many parties for whom the leftist ideals of Keerpunt '72 have now become the norm and who hardly dare to take a stand, except against the views of a party that speaks clearly. In practice, even after the elections, there seems to be a large list of parties who collectively look away from the real dangers of this time, Islamisation in particular. These parties even interpret a referendum result as if it were a list combination, yet they still interpret a voter's "no" as a "yes." It is clear that the PVV supports this bill. I do have one last question for the Minister. Can the Minister indicate whether, after approval by the First Chamber, the legislative amendment is already in force for the municipal elections of March 2018 according to the latest planning?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u52	Mr. Chairman. The idea that list links would promote mergers of parties was subsequently naive and did not serve a real purpose. The Minister who is now defending the bill to abolish that possibility has experienced this himself. At the last Lower House elections on 15 March this year, his party, the Labour Party, gained nine seats, after the party had entered into a list link with GroenLinks. On 20 March, Minister Plasterk called on the PvdA in an article in the Volkskrant to go to GroenLinks and join Jesse Klaver. Party leader Asscher immediately rejected the idea with great force. It didn't even turn out to be a discussion point anymore. The 50PLUS Group looked again at the 2012 Lower House elections and those of the European Parliament in 2014. In 2012 the PvdA had established a list link with the SP and GroenLinks. That had a number of striking consequences. The combination gained an extra seat, which initially seemed to be assigned to the PvdA, but was later awarded to GroenLinks. He thus gained a fourth seat, which was awarded to Jesse Klaver. Without that list link, GroenLinks might not have had his current party leader. But it also illustrates how proportional representation can be reversed. GroenLinks achieved 2.3% of the votes, the Party for the Animals 1.9%, a difference of only 0.4%. The Party for Animals got two seats, GroenLinks four. That says a lot. In 2014, in the European elections, D66 won the most votes. However, thanks to a list connection, the CDA gained a seat more. The SP received more votes than the PvdA, but still one seat less, because the PvdA had closed a list connection. These are all examples that motivate us to vote in favour of this bill. But there is also a further and more fundamental side. Mr Lintmeijer has just mentioned them again. He asked: is it not good for confidence in politics that there is an increase in the chance that the voter's vote will end up with a spirit relative, rather than with one party on the other flank? In 2012, PvdA voters were able to see that their voice might have gone to GroenLinks. Then the PvdA began to rule and GroenLinks on the other flank in the opposition. Thus, PvdA voters may have helped the opposition to the PvdA to have an additional seat. We are pleased that this will not happen again in the future. Mr Lintmeijer also asked whether we could not talk better about the 14,000 votes that were not included. May I ask the Minister a brief topical question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u53	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u54	The law provides that political parties must declare gifts and donations, greater than a certain amount, received before the elections. Minister Plasterk sent a letter to all parties shortly before the elections. Turns out the VVD didn't stick to that and broke the law. Did Minister Plasterk take steps, report and/or investigate, or is he satisfied that the next time other parties say: this can apparently be impunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the division of seats, every politician of course likes to look at his own party. Today, however, I would like to break that off on the basis of two recent examples that were positive for other parties, namely the PvdA and the VVD, at the Lower House elections on 15 May. The PvdA came out on 8 seats, and the VVD at 31. At least, on its own. For the PvdA had a list connection with GroenLinks, and it yielded the ninth seat. Should the PvdA still change their mind and participate in the formation, GroenLinks is behind us! And as far as the VVD with 31 seats is concerned, it got a rest seat, and then amazingly enough another seat, a kind of bonus seat, so it suddenly ended up on 33 seats. An extra seat, because you're already big. Of course, that is not to be followed by an ordinary voter. Either way, with both examples of seat profit we are in the middle of the issue of the legislative proposal Amendment of the Election Act, abolition of lists combinations. Honesty commands me to say that I have some understanding for the fact that at the time there were questions about lists for the election of the First Chamber. This has everything to do with the stepped-up elections, where there is a period between the election of Provincial States and the First Chamber, within which list connections could be made. This inevitably leads to arithmetical deception. However, at the time a different choice could have been made, namely that list connections were allowed if they had been agreed before the elections for the Provincial States were held. Then you solved the problem. This would have done justice to one of the objectives of the list of links, namely the idea of proportional representation. This is intended to ensure that the results of the elections are as consistent as possible with what the population chooses. In addition, it is more logical that a vote should be given to a party that is ideologically related. How does the Minister view this point? I come to a point that is important for the upcoming municipal elections, 21 March 2018. Many political parties are already preparing for this election. In particular, many parties work together at local level or are even used to establishing list connections. In order to avoid tension, my group, together with the Christian Union, has asked the Minister additional questions, in particular about the date of entry into force of this bill. The Minister had already expressed his opinion on elections to the reclassification municipalities in November this year, but not yet on 18 March. In the note following the report we received on 26 May, the Minister indicated that he would like to take consideration of the summer recess as a starting point, because there would be sufficient time. I appreciate the fact that the Minister has given such a frank opening to this problem. That is why I would also like to be frank with the Minister: politically, it would have been interesting to try to lift this debate over the summer recess. But I didn't choose that. I would much rather simply ask the Minister to consider whether the entry into force could not wait until after the March 2018 elections. I am making this request on the basis of a few arguments which I would like to put to the Minister. 1. Many political parties are already in the process of identifying list leaders, drawing up lists of candidates and drawing up election programmes. 2. This is often worked out by volunteers, in their spare time. 3. By abolishing lists, a large number of local political parties will have to change, which will entail a great deal of additional work. 4. For a large number, this will mean that a list shift must be achieved, with all kinds of sensitive political consequences. This is less simple than it seems, because it often has programmed consequences. Every single point weighs, I admit, not so heavy. However, the accumulation of these concerns requires care, and it takes time. I urge the Minister to allow the entry into force of this law, if adopted, after the elections of 18 March 2018. Finally, a question about the distribution of the remaining seats. In the House of Representatives, a motion by Bishop and Schouten, who allowed a fairer distribution of residual seats, was rejected. Can the Minister comment on this point, bearing in mind the outcome of the last elections, in which a party was given two seats? And does he want to take into account that in the past it has been the case that even four seats have been allocated to a party by the calculation method? I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u56	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the bill that deletes the provisions in the Election Act that make it possible to link candidate lists from different political parties to a list combination. My group thanks the government for answering our written questions. After reading the reply, it continues to question the need for this bill, which aims to remove the possibility for political groups to form lists. Can the Minister state what problems he intends to address with the present bill? Voters want their vote to end up with their party or else with a party most related to the party of their choice. List links allow the electorate to give more direction to what happens to his voice. If his or her vote does not contribute to a seat for the party of his or her preference, his or her vote shall be taken by the political group with which his or her party has entered a list link and which is related to the party of his or her initial choice. Political groups are currently preparing for next year's municipal elections. They are considering a substantive cooperation with the parties with which they have many agreements. In some cases, extensive cooperation may be discussed. This is motivated, among other things, by concerns about too small departments or by local political groups that are increasingly struggling to find enough candidates to participate in the elections, especially in small municipalities. It is very doubtful whether the original objective of list connections, namely to contribute to further pooling of political parties, has disappeared from sight and whether the achievement of additional seat gains has become the main objective. In my group's view, the statement that this is the case, which is contained in the motion which the government intends to implement with this proposal, is not convincingly substantiated and is not sufficiently considered in the light of current developments. Does the Minister share that opinion? If not, why not? My group also questions the speed with which the government intends to introduce the legislative proposal. The government also uses the argument of urgency in its response to my group's written question to discuss the choice not to ask the recently established State Committee on Parliamentary System to give its opinion on the legislative proposal before us. In 1958, the State Committee gave its opinion on the electoral system and legislation of the political parties on the reintroduction of the lists. In 1968, the State Committee recommended an opinion on the Constitution and the Election Act on the abolition of the ban on list combinations. The Government recognises in the reply that the abolition or maintenance of list combinations and the method of residual seat distribution are subjects which may fall within the remit of the State Commission. Nevertheless, it does not intend to ask the State Committee on Parliamentary System to give its opinion on this matter. What's the rush? For what reasons should this proposal be implemented with steam and boiling water? Unlike the government, my group sees sufficient reason to ask the State Commission to give its opinion on the intended abolition of the possibility for political groups to establish lists of links. As far as we are concerned, the question raised by Mr Köhler to look at variations in the residual seat allocation can also be taken into account. One of the most important trends at the moment is the increase in political groups. Can the Government comment on how the planned abolition of the list combinations relates to developments such as the increase in the number of small political parties in particular? Does the government agree with my group that a further increase in the number of political groups in the future could lead to the need to join forces? Could the possibility of list connections encourage these small parties to cooperate and join forces? On what basis does the government base its assumption in the reply that it does not expect the abolition of list combinations to complicate processes of pooling of forces? The government argues that political parties can still choose to participate in elections with a joint list of candidates in the event that the list is abolished. Does the Minister agree with us that the step to submit a joint list of candidates could discourage the political parties concerned from engaging in cooperation and that list links could be a first step towards a gradual pooling of forces? I'll come to a conclusion. I would ask the Minister that the introduction of the proposal will not disrupt the preparations that political parties are making in the run-up to the forthcoming municipal elections and reclassification elections. Is the government, for this reason and for the other reasons I have mentioned, prepared to ask the State Commission to give its opinion? Should the government agree to this, my group proposes to the Chamber that the proposed bill be retained and that the votes on it be postponed until further notice. My group awaits the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u57	Does one of the other Members still wish to speak? I see that is not the case. I was asked by the Minister whether we could proceed immediately. Unfortunately, that is not possible, Mr Minister, because a large number of Members now have to attend a committee meeting. We must therefore suspend the sitting until 3.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u58	Madam President. Thank you for the opportunity to defend this law here. If I have counted correctly, this is the first of a series of four laws, even constitutional changes, which I will be able to defend in this Chamber over the next few weeks. You will see me, if it is right, fighting as a bear to get as much support from the members as possible for each of those laws. The present proposal, however, is, as we know, the result of a motion adopted by a majority of the House of Representatives, which I shall deal with in terms of content later, and in which I was invited to initiate this process. It's no secret that I dissuaded the motion, because that's what I did in public. I then considered the consequences of the fact that the motion received broad support. As it should be if a proposal is made by the government and has been adopted by the House of Representatives, I will explain the arguments for it, but it is of a different order than a number of other laws on which I shall be speaking in the coming weeks. First of all, I am responsible for the fact that I initially dissuaded the motion calling for this route to be set in motion. I did so on the grounds that the list link is a facility offered to political parties and voters and that one does not need to use. It is up to the parties to commit themselves to each other in the list. As long as it is apparently used in the first period, it has already been said that this has also been done in recent years by parties who have subsequently supported the motion for a resolution on its abolition. Who am I to make this impossible by law? So I have said from my liberal heart: let us leave that to everyone. However, the motion was adopted with the support of the left and right: SP, D66, VVD and PVV; perhaps I will forget parties. That is quite broad, but a number of parties were not in favour of this; that is also recognizable today. Why did I let you convince me? First of all, I'm a democrat. If the House of Representatives decides by a majority that something is desirable, I am therefore seriously considering it. Secondly, the overly liberal view that everyone should know for themselves whether they want to join in a list does not go far enough. After all, it has an effect on the residual seat distribution. Parties not associated with any other party may also be affected by this. That is a system feature and ultimately it is about whether or not you want to set that effect in motion. Thirdly, I felt that the list link had to do with the way in which political parties wished to present themselves to their electorate. This is typically a matter of which you as a government have to say from box K: if you want to introduce that list link in 1973, you can and if you decide in 2017 to put an end to it, so can you. It is up to the political parties to decide by majority. All in all, I have decided to honour the wish of the House of Representatives and to initiate this process. Anyway, I'm also giving history to that. The proposal was not an initiative that the government would have taken spontaneously. Before I go into the various arguments, I would like to say something about the system we now have. The question is, of course, whether there is a fair system. This question has also been asked by a number of speakers: is this fair? I said in the Lower House that you should be able to look at the question of whether something is fair, strictly speaking regardless of your self-interest. The story of the philosopher John Rawls from Harvard about income distribution is known. He spoke of "the veil of ignorance" or "the veil of unknownness." In fact, you should be able to agree on whether something is a fair system, regardless of whether you are comfortable with it yourself. However, in the political debate, you will of course find that the parties that are more often linked in lists think that this is a desirable system and that those who want to have nothing to do with it, for that reason, consider the system less desirable. That, of course, complicates the discussion. There is also a certain contradiction between large and small political parties. In that sense, I may have the ideal position to try to take a fair stand, because I do not know from my own party whether it is a large or small political party. I hope it will be a major political party again as soon as possible, but we do not know that at the moment. So I'm trying to do it in an honest way. Mrs Van Bijsterveld and Mr Lintmeijer specifically asked whether this is an honest way to do this. In any case, the list link as it stands is transparent, but in combination with the system of the largest averages it can sometimes result in a party with more votes being given fewer seats and vice versa. I would also like to make a substantive comment on the system of the largest average. We've had that system since 1933, so it's been a long time. The reasoning behind this is that you want to make the results of the elections in seats as much as possible similar to the results of the elections in votes. If there are residual seats to be distributed, you would therefore want to divide them without being very technical so that parties can make as little progress as possible. That, of course, works in favour of large political parties. The electorate is over 60,000 votes. If 4,000 votes are over and if one party has one seat and the other party 40, one party would suddenly almost double, while the large party is barely increasing. So you could say that this system favours the major political parties, but that is well thought out, from the point of view of making it as fair as possible and keeping the vote in seats as close as possible to the percentage result. So it is not the case, as some people have said, that the votes of voters come from another political party. Mr Schouwenaar was right to correct that, because that is never the case. When assigning the remaining seats, we look at the numerator and the denominator: how many votes have you collected and how many seats do you bring in? The party that achieves the most votes per seat will be assigned the remaining seat. That's actually another way of saying what I just said. It is always difficult to explain the system of the largest average, but in itself it is not an unfair system. It is a logical system and it has existed for a long time. Mr Engels spoke about party democracy and proportional representation. I would not like to give the proposal that cargo, because it makes it bigger than I would like to make it. Indeed, the list link system we have since 1973 fits in itself within Article 53 of the Constitution and within the system of proportional representation. From D66 there has even been talk about the introduction of a electoral threshold. At that time, the opinion of the Council of State was that even a limited electoral threshold would fit within our system of proportional representation. You may think differently about the list link, but I don't think party democracy changes because you're in favour of it or against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u59	Just to clarify, the Minister rightly refers to the Constitution. That is the state-law situation and the state-law argumentation, but my comment to quote Leibholz had more of a political background. There's always tension between them and you can appreciate them differently. We are, and we are allowed to do so. I have not convinced the Minister that this is an important element in this debate, but I remain convinced that it is. Maybe we can discuss this further with other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u60	Okay, thank you for that addition. I would also like to respond to Mr Van Hattem's comment, which referred to 'chooser deception'. I think that's a big word. It's an open system. Everyone sees on his list that the parties are connected and that is also discussed openly. In fact, those two parties are considered to be one party in the allocation of the remaining seat together. That is in itself transparent. You may or may not be against that, but I wouldn't call that a "deception."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u61	I take that view only from the explanatory statement, which quotes parliamentary history. It literally states that the abolition of the list link earlier, in 1923, was done under the guise of electoral deception. In this sense, I have merely quoted Parliamentary Acts. The argument at the time is equally valid today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u62	Then I understand Mr Van Hattem's comment. This also gives me the opportunity to respond to Mrs Van Bijsterveld, who also used a rather big word. She said: this is yojo policy, because the government abolished it first in 1923 and now comes back to it in 2017. But even if that yo-yo were very slow, it still isn't. What was abolished in 1923 was a fundamentally different system from what was introduced in 1973. That was a system in which parties who did not meet the electorate could still be elected to the Chamber. Of this, I can imagine that Mr Van Hattem had found in the Acts that it was judged by such terms at the time. But that was a different system from the one that was introduced in 1973 and which is still in force at the moment. After this introduction, I will first try to answer some of the questions I have asked. Then perhaps I will come back to the appreciation of the situation before us. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked me why I came up with this proposal. What problem are we solving right now? The answer to that is divided into three parts. Firstly, it was the explicit wish of a majority of the House of Representatives. Secondly, the residual seat allocation to the listed parties may be detrimental to non-listed parties. So they must be in agreement with the system, I think. It is something that should be decided by majority. Thirdly, I also think it is a matter of political parties how they can best present themselves to the electorate. Those were the reasons for the motion, although I had advised her not to do so. Several speakers have asked Mr Van Hattem, Mr Engels and Mrs Van Bijsterveld whether it is possible to bring the law into force before the municipal elections. That question was also put to me in the second term. Technically, it can, and if the Chamber passes the law, I can make it happen. It is, of course, a question of desirability. If the House votes on it this week or next week, it will be timely for the parties to take it into account, and that is also what I say to Mr Schalk. Anyway, whether you think that is desirable is of course a very different matter. I will be right back to Mr Schouwenaar's point. He raised a fundamental point. Perhaps I could take away from Mr Lintmeijer a misunderstanding which also lived with other speakers. I've had a little more time to check whether the results of the last parliamentary election were influenced by the list link. That is not the case. It was said by a number of speakers that Mrs Ploumen would have received the ninth place of the Labour Party thanks to the list link with GroenLinks, but that is not the case. Even without a list connection, that seat had been assigned to the Labour Party. But now I'm looking at Mr. Lintmeijer that was different in 2012. Then indeed the number four of GroenLinks, Jesse Klaver, was elected as a result of the list link with the Labour Party. Those are the facts that lie ahead. This brings me to the whole discussion about the link between the abolition of the list link and the system of the largest surpluses. I have just argued that I consider the system of the largest surpluses to be an understandable system in itself. We've been talking about it for a reason since 1933, because it's trying to get the results in percent and the results in seats as close as possible to each other. Sometimes, however, in combination with the list link, it may indeed lead to more votes for one party but more seats for the other thanks to a list link. Is that what you want? Yes or no? And have we done enough bone? Well, that's the question. I propose this because Mr Schouwenaar said in his first term: my group is happy to look for improvement. He talked about keeping this bill until a better system for the residual seat distribution has been found. So he might see room for improvement. I also see Mr Köhler's desire to consider both matters in conjunction. I have already indicated in my introduction that I am standing here with the bill because the Lower House of States-General invited me to do so and I felt that there was no reason not to meet that wish. If this Chamber, as a chamber of reflection, would decide in the second term to be given further advice, that is up to it. I bring the proposal here as it has been put by the government and adopted by the House of Representatives, but I have some hesitation here. I would like to invite this Chamber to perhaps be even clearer about that in its second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u63	I understand that the Minister feels an urge from the House of Representatives, because there is a majority opinion. At the same time, the government will also have a view on the impact of this bill on the position of small parties. This has been widely said, also by Mr Schouwenaar, that this is typically a subject where you can see if there is any improvement. How does the government see that? Would it also be a great advantage for the government if there were an opinion on this very point that would make a good contribution to removing that disadvantage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u64	First of all, there was no effect at the last Dutch Parliament election. There were list connections, but there was no effect on the outcome for a large or small political party. So I weigh this as not so heavy. I do not feel that there has been a great injustice in the last parliamentary elections. The result would have been the same up to the seat if the list links had not been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u65	I do not think we should confine this discussion to parliamentary democracy, because in the municipal councils there will be this effect as well. If you add it up there, of course it's a different story. But I share with the Minister that it is only one case. That is why I think the burning need is a little less. And if we're lucky, we won't have Parliamentary elections for another four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u66	Yeah, that last one could be like that. As far as the need is concerned, I am referring to what I have just said. In the end, it's a political weighting. The proponents will say: it is a facility that you offer to parties to commit to each other. The advantage is not just for the small political parties. If a large party and a small party join each other and thus bring in a residual seat, it is a matter of the largest surplus which one of the two runs off with the seat. You could say it's fifty-fifty between the big one and the small one. Sometimes the big party benefits from it, too. So it is not in advance a system that favours small parties. I do not want to give rise to the expectation that the government intends to take the system of the largest averages as a whole. Anyway, if the Chamber wants another opinion from the State Committee on this matter, that is something else. After all, the system of the largest surpluses also has major disadvantages. This was also discussed by a number of Members in the first term. You have to realize that. Those disadvantages must be weighed when you make a choice. So I do not want to open the door now that the government intends to do so, but again, the reflection, the weighting of whether the proposal is ready to appear in the Official Journal should take place in this Chamber. In doing so, I immediately answered most of the questions. I have made it clear, also in the direction of Mr Schouwenaar, that the current system does not conflict with proportional representation. This has also been demonstrated by all the opinions of the Council of State and so on. I have also mentioned an example. Even the electoral threshold would not conflict, according to lawyers, if it were not too high, so certainly not in this case. Mr Köhler has spoken about the system of the largest surpluses and I have responded to this and the consistency with the proposal before us. Mr Nagel asked about the VVD. That might be a little off-topic, but I've been trying to figure it out. In any case, it is not covered by the Financing Act political parties. This does not fall within the competence of BZK. That's all I can say about it right now. That's all I have right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u67	Isn't it legally stipulated that gifts above a certain amount should be made public? This minister wrote to all political parties about four weeks before the elections and pointed out that gifts had to be made public before a certain date. The elections were three months ago. There's been a lot of publicity about it. Among other things, the NRC has investigated it. If one does not comply with this legal provision and the minister who prescribed it tolerates it, then he should not be surprised if other parties, such as the PVV, do not comply with it next time. In this country, where a traffic offence of 5 kilometres has a financial impact on the offender, can't a big renowned party just break these rules? I want to know whether the Minister is going to investigate this further and whether he is going to promote the adoption of measures against the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u68	The Finance Act political parties has not been broken here. The issue to which Mr Nagel refers, as far as I know, concerns foundations and whether they have an anbi-status. That's all I can report unprepared at the moment. It does not fall within the scope of the Financing Act political parties and therefore not in the portfolio of BZK; I am definitely in that. If Mr Nagel wants to know more about it, he may have to ask written questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u69	I don't understand. This minister wrote a letter to all parties before the elections. He referred to this legal provision. Then the largest party does not abide by it. She's the one who leaks that letter to her boot. It went public weeks ago. The election was three months ago. Now the Minister says, "I don't know anything." That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u70	I'm not saying I don't know anything. I reply to Mr Nagel that, first of all, it is separate from this legal process. For the rest, I tell him that the portfolio that is with me, namely the Financing Act political parties, has not been breached by the VVD. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u71	I would like to endorse the Minister's reply. I cannot escape the impression that Mr Nagel is expressing himself more in this than in the questioning sense. I think that a little more restraint would be appropriate until it has been established that it has indeed happened as he says, with the choice of words attached. I think Mr Nagel is putting on a little too big pants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u72	Finally, Mr Sini asked a question about the increase in the number of political parties and the need to perhaps join forces. As a member of a political party, I have many views on this, but as a system operator for our system of political parties, I must say that I am not in favour of the introduction of electoral thresholds within our system of proportional representation. I also believe that in so far as there is instability in our political system, it is not the fault of the SGP, the Christian Union or other relatively small political parties. That has much more to do with the very big blows that are made because 50PLUS, Proud of the Netherlands, the LPF or other parties suddenly go to 25 seats and then disappear. That is the voter's wish. Our system is able to translate that great volatility, which apparently lives under the electorate, into political power. That is also the intention of our political system. We're gonna have to do it with that. Of course, from your party political point of view, you can find all kinds of things about that. I would hope, for example, that everyone will vote massively for the Labour Party, but that is independent of my system responsibility for the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u73	My comment on the increase in the number of political parties relates more to the question of the extent to which these new political parties will be forced to cooperate in the future. The possibility of entering into list combinations with each other can also make it easier for them to work more closely with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u74	That is possible, but at the same time my observation is that many of the new political parties are on stage to fight another out of the tent. Whether the new entrants will tend to commit to other parties, from the feeling that they have been pulling shoulder to shoulder for years, is the question. I don't have a predictive gift either, but under the current order it might be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u75	Looks like the minister's done answering his question. I had asked him for a brief reflection on the point that a electoral system should also be understandable to the electorate and be explainable in its operation. Apart from what the Election Council and the Council of State formally advise on it, part of my plea was that it would help if we looked at it with the electorate's eyes to see what it thought was a bit logical, understandable and defendable, so that it would contribute to political confidence. I would like to hear some reflection from the Minister on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u76	I think my answer to that is clear. Suppose you ask at the kitchen table who the five seats that are left should be, then they say: to the one who has the most votes left. You'll end up with the biggest surplus. That's the simplest answer. But if you sit down and explain that you would like the number of seats to do as much justice as possible to the votes in numbers, then you can argue that it is a bit crazy if a party suddenly doubles because it happens to have a few hundred or a thousand votes left. There's something to say for both of us. This is a system we've had since 1933. I can only say that we have no intention of changing that. I think, together with Mr Lintmeijer, that when you ask on the street what people think is logical, they will initially be tempted to say: whoever has the most votes, gets the first seat to be divided. Mr President, I thought I had answered all the questions I had asked, but it seems that I am missing something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u77	I asked the Minister another question about an idea put forward by D66 in the written preparatory round, namely that parties together form a list to secure more seats and then sit separately as political groups in the parliament after the elections. Does the Minister find that enlightening, compared to the list connection system? I've been checking with some party agencies. I understand that these intentions already exist in the country with a number of parties. How does the Minister weigh that effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u78	If political parties pretend to form a single list, but have the secret intention of going further apart after the elections, that would be strictly misleading. If it were so explicit, I do not think it would be desirable. Then I think the current system would be better, in which parties make it clear that they each have their own administration, their own congress and their own supporters, but that they make use of the facility that provides the list link. If you let me choose between those two, the latter will in any case be transparent. It's a little hard to explain sometimes, but it's open. The first would be really secretive, and I wouldn't be in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u79	I have no indication that it would happen secretly. I have the impression that they will tell us, but we also know what the state of the local media is and how many people are getting into the electoral rhetoric of what exactly is going to happen. It will not be secretly, but the intentions are here and there in the country. Is the Minister familiar with that? If he is not familiar with it, I have concerns about what this bill will mean in practice. Then we have had noble goals, I may not share them, but the majority do, but we end up in another place, a place that no one would want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u80	I understand what Mrs Bikker is saying, but at the same time I think it is a complex consideration. I don't think the possible local dysfunction as an objection is entirely pure either. Once again, if parties know that they are living as two different political parties, they should also present themselves as such to the electorate. Then they shouldn't take advantage of the fact that there isn't a lot of local press watching and pulling a trick. I do not think that would be sensible and desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u81	It's not a trick for those parties. It's just for those parties to see what's really possible. They cannot establish a list connection, they are small and they are looking for an opportunity to reinforce each other's sound. They can't make a list connection, but they have one list. After the election, they'll see how they're doing. Those parties don't experience it as a trick. I don't think it's contrary to the law either. It's a material effect. Looking over everything, I wonder if the minister would be happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u82	No, I don't think that's right. I do not think it is bona fide to say: we make one list and then we have to look at it after the elections, while we have the intention to proceed separately after the elections. I do not agree with that, but I do not think that you should say that for that reason we are maintaining the system of list connections, because then we are going to object to the proposal before us. I wouldn't think that was reasonable. That is my answer to Mrs Bikker's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u83	We have now reached the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u84	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. His answer gives me a few comments. The Minister began with a very nice introduction to his answer, namely the Rawlsian position he wanted to take himself. Without putting it into these terms, my group has not considered this proposal primarily as a fraction of a party which itself makes regular use of the possibility of listing combinations, which we do. Above all, we have looked at it from the perspective of whether we think it is a good and reasonable mechanism. And that's what we think. There are no further problems with the phenomenon of list connections, and that is why we are not in favour of abolishing them. The Minister looked at the situation where there are different views on what democracy really is. He is right to say that these different views of democracy lead to different types of electoral system, which in itself may all be legitimate. We have set ourselves in line with the proportional representation within the limits to be set by law for the assessment of this bill, as expressed by the Constitution. Within that system we agree with the system of list combinations, because a 'overvote' benefits a spirit-related group. This fits within a system of proportional representation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u85	I have now heard this argument for the fourth time and have always pushed me back into my chair, but now I have to say it once. I find the argument quite amazing and others have used it. Mrs Van Bijsterveld says: as a group or as a party, we think it is very logical that the voter wants his vote to be taken into account through a division of seats to a spirited party. That is precisely what I have to say about party democracy. It is the voter who decides what to do with his voice, or what to do with his voice if there is a residual seat? The assumption of certain political groups and parties that they know better than the voter himself in this case that, when he votes for the PvdA, he simply always wants that voice to go to GroenLinks is bizarre. It is a completely unconvincing argument and it illustrates precisely that parties are much more concerned with themselves and with their own position, power and interest than should really be in a electoral democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u86	I find my own arguments convincing. I will also try to convince Mr Engels of that. If a voter disagrees with me, he can just vote for another party. That's one point. A second point is that if this is not the case, it is not the case that the parties make up their minds. Then the law's gonna break up with me. Then there is no influence whatsoever from the electorate on that, at least an even farther away influence. I think I'm assuming a very reasonable assumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u87	This just makes it even more bizarre. After this, I'll stop. Once again, I think that a voter with his own vote decides which party he votes for. He does not give an explanation of vote that, by definition, that vote should end up with the other party in a list combination. A voter voting for the PvdA may have a second preference for the SP. That's not out of the question. Maybe more than for GroenLinks. That's not out of the question either. I can't stop thinking it's an artificial argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u88	Too bad I can't convince Mr Engels, but that's how she is. I will come to another point. During the first term, several spokesmen established the link between the subject matter of the bill and the overall system of residual seat distribution. For the sake of clarity, the general link between this proposal and the residual seat distribution system, the largest averages or the largest surpluses, does not affect my group. We have assessed the bill as such. However, I have expressly said that the residual seat distribution system within a list combination itself is very reasonable, because otherwise, by definition, almost always the largest party in that combination is allocated the extra seat and that is of course not good for cooperation. Finally. A single spokesperson raised the issue of whether it might be appropriate to have the State Committee on the Revision of the Parliamentary System deliver an opinion on the subject covered by this legislative proposal. I understand that the Christian Union Group may table a motion to that effect. That seems to be a good idea for my group. If this does not lead to an order on the part of the State Committee to speak on this bill, I understand that it is also envisaged to ask the Minister to move that the proposal should not enter into force before the forthcoming municipal elections. That would be a second and at least a good solution for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u89	Mr. Chairman. I do not need to explain the position of my group. That's clear. We are all in favour of the government. I can leave one point to it now. I have just spoken in an argument about what the electorate wants or what the party wants in response to the question whether it is logical that a voter wants his vote to go to a spirited group. That seems to me to be a rather bizarre argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u90	I can follow Mr Engels when it comes to the election of the First Chamber. That is what I said in my speech. There were first elections for the Provincial States and then parties with the knowledge of what was there, magic with numbers. However, there is no misunderstanding about this in a normal election, where it is well known in advance which parties may have entered into a list link. A voter who then opts for the PvdA, knowing that there is a list link with GroenLinks, knows that in advance. The voter's gonna get justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u91	I understand what you're saying. Let me start with that, because that always sounds friendly. But I'm just as kind as to say that it's a weird reasoning that I don't follow. It assumes that political parties think that voters always vote sister or so and with that particular reasoning. That's not true. A voter is an individual voter. Of course, he knows that there is a list link, but that does not mean that you can automatically assume that a voter who always votes for the PvdA, knowing that there is a list link with GroenLinks, wants GroenLinks to benefit from it. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u92	Would Mr Engels agree with me that if a voter knows that, for example, PvdA and GroenLinks have a list link but really should not have anything of GroenLinks, he will never vote for the PvdA again? Then he'll just keep looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u93	How could Mr Schalk know that? That's the question. We do not know that. That is the arrogance of political parties, who think they know how voters think. Well, I don't have that arrogance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u94	My party is now so often called that it is almost entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u95	I also mentioned the SP twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u96	I'll leave it to the SP to see if they feel provoked. The voter does not exist, in the sense that as a voter I do not know whether my vote has become a residual vote or not. It goes into the big picture. I can imagine, it's interesting to test that one time you ask voters who have voted progressively: there are residual seats left over. Do you think it makes sense that those seats end up at the liberal block, the Christian block or the progressive block? If you test that, I think that a lot of voters, not bound by the fact that this happens to be their voice, will say: yes, there is a certain logic in that. In that sense, I do not recognise the term 'birious' which Mr Engels puts on this reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u97	It is quite possible that a lot of voters recognize themselves in that reasoning, but I am concerned about the following. In any case, I do not think that this is an argument for maintaining the list combination. But the assumption that it is entirely and one-on-one logical that you can assume that a voter is so responsible is not based on anything. That's why I thought that was a bizarre argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u98	That's why I put it differently, because that one-on-one assumption is never mentioned. I never know, and Mr Engels doesn't know, whether his voice just happened to be a residual voice. That doesn't go into this story anyway. However, if you look at what is happening in the larger picture, suppose there are 4,000 remaining votes on it; do you want them to come into your own block or not? I find it interesting to check with the electorate how he looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u99	I cannot object to this because this is an angle that is in line with my observation that an automatic assumption cannot be made here. Then there is the question: what's the rush? On the other hand, why not just let a legislative proposal come into force in a regular manner? What is the reason for suddenly wanting to make this place? That reason isn't so hard to guess. Those parties who see an advantage in a system of list combination and therefore also see an advantage in gaining more seats, try to take advantage of it once again in the municipal elections. I say very clearly and digitally that this is precisely the argument for my group not to allow this postponement. Then we will go on with a system which I believe is much more in line with the perception of a party democracy, rather than as far as possible laying down powers and power with the electorate. My group will certainly not support such a proposal. The arguments I have heard about less preparation, and the disruption of preparation, seemed rather opportunistic to me. Then there's the matter of the state committee. We've drafted an assignment for the State Commission. He's insisting on motions that have been passed here. I find it very remarkable and wonderful to start a movement now as if the state committee should be given another mandate on the basis of this bill. The State Committee looks at the functioning of parliamentary democracy and has the scope to look at the functioning of the electoral system. If the State Committee wants to do so, it goes far beyond the question of whether or not we want a list combination and how we deal with residual calculations. I would rather not disturb the work of the State Committee now. I would also say that this is a fairly opportunistic move to ensure that there will be a postponement. This bill deserves to be introduced as soon as possible, within the relevant legal deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u100	Mr. Chairman. Much has been said about smaller and larger parties. I would point out that the VVD is even the smallest party within the EU. The old saying "quisque sibi proximus" does not apply to the VVD, at least in this discussion. The discussion focused largely on the question of whether the system of the largest averages or of the largest surpluses is the best. If improvement is possible, we would like to contribute to that search. The Minister concluded that we would therefore be prepared to accept this proposal, but the latter is not correct. We also believe that this issue should not only be tackled, but should also be addressed. It is a separate problem that is separate from the residual seat distribution through the system of the largest surpluses or the largest averages. I hope that this is neutral enough that you can get more seats with fewer votes. Some speakers have moved in the position of the electorate and what would be clear or unclear to the electorate. It seems to me very difficult to explain to the electorate that you can get more seats with fewer votes. You will then have to explain this using the list combination and the possible compensation for the distribution of council seats. However, I fear that the voter will not understand that immediately, while the main rule "more votes are more seats, less votes is less seats" is clear to everyone. That's the main rule. In my view, that is the essence of this proposal. I asked the Minister if he supported that principle, the main rule. I understand from his reply that he is referring to the Council of State, but I do not think that, with all due respect to the Council of State, is a supporting argument. Does the Minister have any other arguments? I hope not, because then I should abandon my principle. However, I would like to offer the Minister that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u101	Mr. Chairman. This debate concerned not only the abolition of the list link, but also the search for the best system of proportional representation. I liked the fact that my neighbor, Mr Schouwenaar of the VVD group, was reflective in that he indicated that the abolition of the list link would be a disadvantage for the smaller parties and a benefit for the larger, however small and large you define, I say after his second term. I share that observation, but I do regret this. I share the observation of the SP as well. This concerns the problem with the current system of residual seat distribution. I do not think we are doing justice to the search for the best proportional representation in this debate by simply talking about the biggest rest or averages. It's gonna be more in the middle anyway. I have already tasted with Mr Schouwenaar any possible solutions, such as a certain percentage of the electorate involved. We are not achieving these solutions in this debate, and I am well aware of that. At the same time, this bill has an effect on small parties. The Minister could not rule out undesirable side effects, such as putting lists together and then taking them apart. The electorate will not find this much clearer either, in the sense that the electorate does not want that list link. Mr Lintmeijer rightly referred to the Civil Forum electoral system. I have not seen any repetition of moves in the sense that other views of the electorate have been brought to light. The debate has often indicated: this would be the voter's opinion, and that might be the opinion of the electorate. However, the Civil Forum electoral system is pointing in a different direction. All this convinces my group that this is not a subject that we, as happened in the House of Representatives, can deal with for a moment in the afternoon. I hear the Minister saying 'faith', but I only repeat what has been said in the Acts about what has been said in the House of Representatives. My group is in favour of doing it not in this way, but in order to make a step in the right direction. I believe that this subject is already within the scope of the mandate of the State Committee because it concerns the parliamentary system. We can then prevent the creation of a yo-yo policy or undesirable effects in this area. That is why I tabled a motion with Mr Sini, but Mr Sini will explain it further. I also support Mr Schalk's motion on the forthcoming municipal elections. In view of the discussion and the impact of this proposal, it is clear to the Minister that my group would regret it if the legislative proposal were to come into force. My group is hoping for a pause for thought. If that is not the case, my group will be forced to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u102	Mr. Chairman. I have just said that my party has often been mentioned in this debate. I need to complete a little piece of historiography. If the seat had not been established in 2012, Jesse Klaver would have joined the parliament a few weeks later, because the group chairman had resigned, and we would not have had Linda Voortman in the Lower House. This could have meant that the proposal on the Open Government Act would have looked different. It could have been just like that. However, Mr Klaver's role would not have been much different. However, that is not what this debate is about, although it has often been mentioned. As the debate and debate continue, I am increasingly in need of simply asking the electorate again, as D66 did at the time through the citizen for a electoral system, how he looks at it. However, there are lesser issues on which we try to conduct social consultations or forms of participation. I agree with Mr Engels that perhaps we should not speculate on what the electorate would think; let us just ask the electorate. That could be fine in the run-up to the state committee. I am not yet aware of the text of that motion, and I am glad to see it. For us, there's nothing wrong with working with list connections. It's a common practice. As far as I know, except for the PVV, all the parties, including D66, who have made great speeches about this have made the SP and the VVD in lists in all kinds of elections. Obviously, it is not that fundamental that this should not be possible. That's also right, because why not use the system when it's there? My preference is to ask the voter. Perhaps the state committee is the vehicle for that. There is no rush to agree or reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u103	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few comments. Firstly, I notice that the Minister is hardly defending his own bill here. I find that remarkable. In the case of an initiative proposal from the House of Representatives, I could have imagined that a minister would say: given that the majority of the House of Representatives would like the proposal, I will not oppose it, but we would not have had to. That position is then normal. But if, as a government, even after a Lower House motion, you make an independent legislative proposal, you do so because you are behind it, weighing everything. Now the Minister says: If the First Chamber so wishes, the proposal can first be sent to the State Committee; that is to the Upper Chamber. If the Minister thinks it makes sense that the legislative proposal should first be reviewed by the State Committee, which I can best follow, why didn't he choose it himself? Why didn't the Minister say after adopting that motion in the House of Representatives: this may be too short, the state committee has just arrived, it is going to look at the electoral system, so let us put the legislative proposal before the state committee first. Why didn't the Minister say that the state committee should have looked at the bill first, rather than come forward with a legislative proposal as a matter of urgency? The Minister didn't do that. He soon followed the House of Representatives. We thought this happened because he had finally made the conclusion of the House of Representatives his, but now he is not defending the proposal at all. I do not want to oblige the Minister to defend something he apparently disagrees with, but I find this remarkable. My next comment concerns our preliminary conclusion. It has not changed after the contributions of others in the first term and the Minister's response. I say to Mr Lintmeijer that we do not believe, in principle, that the system of list connections is wrong. By the way, if you're against something in principle, that doesn't mean you can't use it yourself. Mr Lintmeijer is very much opposed to the system of mortgage interest relief, at least in its present size, but he uses it as much as others. Many parties are also opposed to the existence of this First Chamber, but that does not mean that they will not sit in it if the First Chamber is present. Also a rule you're not really for, you can use, if it does exist. It goes on with us, however. We are not opposed to this arrangement in principle at all. We have only considered that the original intention of these list links, with consequences for the distribution of seats, was linked to close cooperation between certain groups, even after the election, but this link does not occur or almost never again. Now it only works as an alternative system for allocating residual seats, in such a way that the system of proportional representation is slightly broken. We believe that this is too high a price for the benefits that the scheme also has. That is why we are, all in all, in favour of abolishing that regime. There's a point. In fact, we believe that the current system of residual seat distribution, which will be strengthened by the abolition of the list combination, should also be abolished, because it gives a disproportionate advantage to the major parties. This system is not fair, despite the fact that it is best to say arithmetically that this system is based on proportional representation. Of course you can say that. If that were not the case, this system would have been in breach of the Constitution for a long time. I am not going to say that here, but I am saying this, and the Minister himself also says that it favours the large parties over the small ones, while the system of largest surpluses can benefit a large, small and medium-sized party. It has already been said that this system is more honest, as far as I am concerned. We therefore believe that this system should also be changed. The Minister said that the system of the largest surpluses also has major disadvantages, but I do not know which ones. In the reply he mentioned two, which Mr Schouwenaar also mentioned in his contribution in the first period. I have responded to both disadvantages. I have shown that these disadvantages are even more severe in the case of the system of the highest averages. So I don't see why the Minister is against this. At least I do not think he has any valid arguments for that. On the other hand, I have heard the VVD say that it would like to have the residual seat distribution system under discussion again. I assume she might want to do this through the state committee. I ask the VVD whether it wishes to submit or support a proposal to ask the State Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u104	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his open answer. I note that we fully agree on the most important aspects: whether or not to enter into list links and the fact that the residual seat distribution system is not a matter of fair or unfair, but at most a matter of fair or possibly even more fair, in the sense of even more responding to what the voters intend to do when they vote. In my initial contribution, I made it clear that I choose to be able to enter into list links, because I think that is a little bit more honest, because it does more justice to what the voter is aiming to do when he casts his vote. I do not make such a choice immediately with regard to the system of residual seat distribution. The legislator doesn't either. That's a differentiated way of dealing with it. Moreover, I would like to say very clearly with the Minister that the one system, the one of the largest surpluses, is considerably easier, more accessible and clearer for everyone, compared to the much more complex system of the largest averages. I also note that the choice of the residual seat system affects the effect that a list connection can have. That is why the discussions on these two elements have always been mixed up in the preparation of this debate. Since only one of these elements is at issue and the other is outside this draft law, while it plays a major role in the discussion and also affects the effect that the bill will have, I am in favour of postponing a final decision until the State Commission has given it some thought. It will then be able to give its opinion on this and to re-assess the effects from all sides. I have therefore signed with love the motion that Mr Sini will be tabling shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u105	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, I have already made it quite clear how we, as a PVV group, stand in this discussion. Again, the reward given in the form of residual seats for forming list combinations is and still remains a bonus for parties to become even more similar. That's very undesirable. It is what Pim Fortuyn called a tendency towards a partyocracy some fifteen years ago, after a partyoligarchie, which we see more and more in this country. As far as we are concerned, that is very undesirable. In addition, we were just talking about the term 'chooser deception', to which the Minister referred. I've taken the trouble to review the Acts of old. It was referred to in 1973 by Mr Polak of the VVD. He referred back to what was said about it in 1923. I thought it was nice and visual to get that quote. It is a quote from Mr Van den Heuvel of the Anti-Revolutionary Party. I should like to quote briefly: 'This means that people are cheating on the electorate. One is attracted by this one, the other by that slogan. This leads to misinformation." To conclude: "If one comes up with a list of their own, the voters know where they stand." Almost 100 years after that, I still find that very striking. That is why we can certainly support this bill. It provides clarity towards the electorate and makes the system more transparent. Finally, I have a brief question for the Minister. In fact, he replied to my question as to whether it could be introduced for the 2018 municipal elections, confirming that it is technically possible. But my question is whether the Minister intends to actually introduce it before the municipal elections, so that it is clear to everyone and to all parties. Can the Minister make a commitment to that? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u106	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for replying. It was a cautious and careful response, I would say. For my part, the Minister states that the Chamber should take a decision on two important points. Is this how we're going to implement this bill now? In this respect, my group would like the Minister himself to keep this bill. In any case, my group will support Mr Sini's motion calling for it to be submitted to the State Committee. That is the first point. The second point is the request that I have made for this to take place right after 21 March. I do not hear the Minister blocking it. He states that he believes that it should be possible for the bill to be accepted now, that it would still be timely. I have just mentioned the arguments why I think that might be difficult. I am not going to repeat those arguments now. I said that, taken separately, these arguments were perhaps not so heavy but stacked. I mentioned a number of examples in my speech, in which I tried not to show envy. In this respect, I can also imagine that we must beware of political opportunism. That word fell for a moment. You always have to be a little careful to say "I don't play that at all," but I made the proposal mainly out of care for local politics. In order to make a ruling on this matter, I shall submit the next motion to the Chamber. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Sini, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Bikker, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Van Bijsterveld proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many political parties at municipal level may already be well advanced in preparing for the municipal election of 21 March 2018;]] [[Considering that changing legislation by eliminating list links puts great pressure on complex political negotiation of programmes and the pooling of candidate lists;]] [[Calls on the Government to postpone the entry into force of this Act until after the municipal elections of 21 March 2018 in the event of the adoption of the Amendment of the Election Act in relation to the abolition of the possibility for political groups to form lists combinations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34377-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u107	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering our questions. I would ask him to go into more detail about our question as to how much implementation of the bill can disturb political parties in their preparations towards the forthcoming municipal elections. My group and a number of other groups wish to ask the government to ask the State Committee on the Rules of Procedure to give its opinion on the proposal before us. The Minister has indicated his willingness to ask the State Commission to give its opinion if the Chamber so requests. The present legislative proposal says what should be abolished but not what should replace it. That is why, in our view, it is also important to ask the State Commission, as Mr Köhler has also proposed, to consider what system should be put in place with regard to residual seats. I would therefore like to make the following motion on behalf of Mrs Bikker, Mr Schalk, Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Ten Hoeve. The President shall: Mr Sini, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Bikker, Mr Schalk and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in 1958 the State Committee of Opinion on the electoral system and legal arrangements of the political parties (State Teulings Committee) issued an opinion on the re-establishment of the lists;]] [[having also noted that in 1968 the State Advisory Committee on the Constitution and the Tickets Act (State Commission-Cals/Donner) advised on the abolition of the ban on list combinations;]] [[Whereas the role of the State Committee on Parliamentary System at present is to advise the Government on the future stability of the parliamentary system, considering that consideration should be given to the election, tasks, position and functioning of the parliamentary system and democracy;]] [[Whereas, furthermore, the Government recognises that the abolition or maintenance of list combinations and the method of the distribution of seats are subjects within the scope of the role of the State Commission;]] [[Whereas the Council of State stresses in its opinion on the abolition of list combinations that this cannot be separated from the residual seat distribution system;]] [[Whereas, in the reply, the Government states that the present system of residual seat sharing is beneficial to the major parties;]] [[Considering that the legislative proposal relates to both the elections and the extent and position of political parties in the democratic system;]] [[calls on the Government, the State Commission, to ask Parliamentary system to include in its examination of the future stability of the parliamentary system the abolition or maintenance of the list combinations and the residual seat distribution system;]] [[also states that it is desirable to continue the examination of this bill until the State Committee has completed its investigation and the report has been discussed in this Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. Kst-34377-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u108	Madam President. Let me start my answer in the second term by stressing once again that the discussion might have given the impression that this is a very big issue that affects the very foundations of our parliamentary system. I want to reduce that to the right proportions. As I have already said, even without a list link, the result of the Lower Parliamentary elections would have been exactly the same last time, right up to the seat. In the elections of five years ago, in 2012, two seats were moved. They have been in favour of GroenLinks and the Christian Union and have been at the expense of the Labour Party and the Party for Animals. That's the whole slide we're talking about. As far as the impact is concerned, therefore, it is not a very fundamental issue. That is why the Chamber invited me to make this proposal by a majority. I have said that if a majority of the House asks me to do so, I see no insurmountable objection to doing so. Mr Köhler asked: where is the defence? I said in my first term that I think it is a matter of political parties to determine how they want to present themselves to the voters. If, in the directly elected Chamber of the States-General, they state in a clear majority that they no longer want to make the option of a list link possible, that is a political fact. And then I'll understand that. Again, until 1973 the possibility was not there either, so it can be both. That is why we are now standing here with this proposal. So I think it's less big than you might think. Then there are two specific questions and two motions for resolutions. I shall deal first with the first motion and the questions that have been put. If this proposal succeeds now, would you be able or willing to lift its introduction over the municipal elections? My first answer was that, technically speaking, I do not see any need for that. Frankly, I find the argument to do so, with all due respect to Mr Schalk, not convincing either. The parties are still locally making their lists and programs and they know that this bill has been passed in the Lower House. This can't come at all unexpectedly. If this proposal is adopted in both Chambers of the States-General, you must also be clear and say that it was possible from 1973 and that has now been abolished by both Chambers. If you are going to say: that does not apply for next spring, then as a system manager, who wants to move in everything, I am contributing to uncertainty. I wouldn't want to do that. As you can see, I am quite distant in this, but if this Chamber decides to adopt the bill, I do not see any decisive reason to postpone its introduction and this should therefore apply to the forthcoming municipal elections. So I'm also dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u109	Now, in his written reply, the Minister indicated that it would apply to him before 28 November. However, he also indicated that if it were just after the summer recess, he would feel like lifting it a bit further. Now we're just before the summer recess. Very often local parties work with volunteers and so on. Those few weeks don't really matter, do they?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u110	I'd like to turn it around. If the two Chambers of the States-General decide to stop the possibility of a list link, there is no need, no reason, not to allow that to apply to the next municipal elections. It may be complicated for the November reclassification election, but this is only true for one or two municipalities. On this point, it seems to me to be a footnote in history. However, I would like to be clear. If you now have made room in your schedule for this before the summer recess, and if you support this bill, it can be rolled out and introduced, including for the municipal elections. The other point is that there is hesitation in a number of groups. Do we not want further advice on this? Let me begin with the point made by Mr Engels. Strictly speaking, he is right: the state committee has been set up and has been commissioned. The committee must be free to carry out that task. If the House wishes it to shed light on this aspect, a subject which falls within its remit anyway, namely the parliamentary system, it will not be an order, but a polite request, then we will have to wait and see what the committee does with it. I imagine she's sympathetic to that. But again, I didn't ask the committee. That's what it's like now. However, Mr Engels is right that, strictly speaking, the task of the State Committee is laid down in writing and that it is not up to us to change that now. You could also say that this falls within the remit as formulated. Perhaps one will want to look kindly at such a request if it is made by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u111	I am very glad that the Minister and I agree on this point, which is not the first time today. But for the sake of political clarity, may I infer from the Minister's answer that he says: we can always ask the State Commission if it wants to look at the electoral system and also at these particular models? Has he also said that he wants to do so, but that this is not related to bringing this proposal forward, i.e. voting and entry into force? After all, the intention of the motion is that we do not deal with the legislative proposal further and that we await the opinion of the State Committee. I want him to agree with me again and we're not going to. We simply continue with the bill, hoping that it will get a majority and then enter into force within the regular deadline. Apart from that, I have no fundamental objection to asking the State Committee anything, but not with the intention of keeping the legislative proposal, because that is political opportunity and I do not think that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u112	In fact, Mr Engels is asking indirectly for my opinion on the motion before us. There is not a word of French to that, because that motion states that it is desirable to hold the further examination of this bill until the State Committee has completed its investigation and the report has been discussed in this Chamber. That is the operative part of the motion tabled here. That is, in fact, a judgment that the Chamber itself must make. I come here with a legislative proposal, I have given my reasons, but if you say that you, having heard the discussion, want to wait for a final judgment until the state committee has let its light on that, that is a political fact and I will, of course, include myself in it. Then I am not going to put the bill to the vote, because you have in fact said that you wish to keep it. That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u113	Very briefly, because I do not want to hold up the debate any further. The Minister has just dissuaded the other motion, which also sought to postpone the debate. I would have expected the Minister to say with all understanding, as I myself understand it, that it is not at all wrong for the State Committee to deal with all kinds of electoral matters, that he does not really want to leave this to the Chamber, but that, in order to promote the timely entry into force of this bill, he should also discourage this motion. We have already discussed a certain logic this afternoon. This is a logical consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u114	That is a fundamental difference. If a law is passed and there is no urgent reason to postpone its introduction, I advise against motions to do so, because it also seems to have something of: the longer we can postpone it, the better. But I don't think that's pure. If both Chambers of the States-General support this bill, I have no reason to postpone the introduction of it from Box K. So I advise against asking you to do that. That is a different matter from what the Chamber says: we have listened carefully to the debate again, and all in all, we think that it is so coherent with other aspects of the electoral system that we want an opinion on it. Then that's a political fact. Then this motion is not unacceptable to the cabinet and we will have to live with it. That's what I'm waiting for. I have answered the points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u115	You're done answering the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u116	Let me conclude by saying, perhaps in response to Mr Köhler, who had asked me to do much more, that in the coming weeks I will come back with three other legislative proposals. You will see me fight to the last vote in this Chamber. That is what I am announcing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u117	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the deliberations on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u118	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose to vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u119	In view of the spirit of the Sini motion, I can imagine that this motion will be put to the vote before the legislative proposal. In any case, I would like to ask for that. I do not know whether to ask for it now or next week, but I have already announced it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-eerstekamer-5.u120	At least you announced it.
