ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u1	The next item is the report by the Safety Research Council on the accident in Mali. I would like to welcome the Secretary of Defense. Before I give the floor to the spokesmen, I would like to point out to everyone that the report of the Committee of Defense Investigation presented to you this morning on the investigation of the mali mortar accident is confidential. That means that there can be no reference to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr President, I have a point of order. Yesterday we heard from Mr Joustra of the OVV that there are other conclusions. I've seen the report by now, confidentially. I do not see that the report could not be made public, especially since privacy has been taken into account. I have also had discussions on this with a number of other colleagues. I would therefore like to ask whether the report can be made public so that it can be involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u3	That request, I understand, is addressed to me. I didn't get a look at the report. I can't either...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u4	Mr President, the request is, of course, addressed to the Defence Department.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u5	Then I'll look at the other MPs. Mr Knops on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u6	Mr. Chairman. This morning, 9:15 a.m., the report was delivered to the Chamber. It was not possible for MPs to see it parallel. We've been in line to look at it. It was a comprehensive report. We didn't quite get to see it. We have limited ourselves to the conclusions. I can endorse what the President of the Research Council said yesterday, namely that on a number of important points the conclusions of this report differ from the OVV report. I must support Mrs Karabulut in the sense that I do not see what would oppose the publication of this report, especially since all the names and all the things that can be traced back to persons have already been blacked out in the report that we have been able to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u7	Mr President, I was able to sit in front of the queue, fortunately. That was close to studying the report. What Mr Knops says is also my impression. I believe that the cabinet should have a very good reason not to do so if we as the Chamber so request. So, given the information we should normally be getting, I would like to support that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u8	Thank you, Mr President, for supporting the request. Partly because of the advance the OVV made yesterday, disclosure is therefore even more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u9	It is a very important debate, Mr President. It is also very important that we should be able to take everything about the debate with us. Colleagues have convinced me that it can be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u10	Mr President, I think it would be useful to look at which Members have made use of the opportunity to see the report; we know this procedure, of course. You can also use the content of a report by paraphrasing without quoting literally. But I think it is right for the government itself to state whether it is prepared to reveal it, as Mr Knops just said, and that that answer comes before we make a decision on ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u11	Mr President, I can confirm that it was difficult to read the thick dossier, but I have largely succeeded. My conclusion was that there were no very confidential things in it or actually no confidential things, as the names were blacked out. So I don't see any obstacles to making it public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u12	Mr President, I support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u13	Mr President, there is also support for the request. I also saw the report this morning. I do not see why it could not be made public, because all personal matters had already been taken out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u14	I too support Mrs Karabulut's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u15	Mr President, I have seen the report. All the names of data subjects with whom privacy-sensitive moments could be revealed have been wiped away in a secure manner. There's nothing else mysterious in it. So I'm also in favour of making that report public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u16	Madam President, I deliberately chose not to see the report because it is a confidential report. If it is going to be public now, I would also like to have a reading break to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u17	Let me look briefly at the Minister: can she say anything about this at the moment? The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u18	Mr President, to my best knowledge, the report has been sent to the Chamber confidentially in relation to commercially confidential information contained in the report. I consider the request of the Chamber to be so urgent that I am prepared to make it public. But let me also say the following to Mr Krol. The OVV has carried out more extensive research than the Research Committee and has been able to read this with a certain probability of establishing the technical work of premature detonation. The conclusions of the CoR, of the internal investigation, have actually become subordinate. For the Defense Department, the OVV investigation is leading with that. Okay, here's a little introduction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u19	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the debate. I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD Group. Speaking time is six minutes, as agreed under the arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u20	Mr. Chairman. On July 6th last year, two of our soldiers died in an exercise with a mortar grenade in Mali: 29-year-old Henry Hoving and 24-year-old Kevin Roggeveld. A 23-year-old colleague from the same battalion was seriously injured. The Security Research Council has examined this tragedy and my group is shocked by the very solid conclusions in the report. Accidents can always happen, especially in view of the risks inherent in war and conflict, but this report describes a succession of avoidable mistakes. And that is indigestible and makes the grief of the relatives that was already great even greater, if possible. We feel deeply for them at this time. Mr. Chairman. I am also saying this because I have been closely involved in the decision-making of missions for ten years, and with my group I am always very aware of the great risks to which we expose our military when we send them on mission: risks of life and death. So they must be able to trust that their internal security is guaranteed, not only on paper but also in practice, both here and on mission. And that means proper equipment, security procedures that are being followed and an organisation that takes action in response to notifications rather than reasoning them away. Over the last few days, the media has been asking for political responsibility. That question will also be discussed here today. I understand that, and that's the way it should be. But this report raises so many pertinent questions that they must first be answered by this Minister in this debate. The essence of this is that what went wrong here must not happen again. On ongoing missions, my group wants to see every consequence before we can decide on the extension of any mission. Know where the military, their families and also us as Chambers are at. That is why there are a number of questions. The OVV concludes that this tragic accident has been caused by a lack of attention to quality, safety and ammunition. Throughout the chain, safety regulations have been ignored, overlooked or neglected from the purchase of the grenades in 2006 to the management in the Netherlands and its storage in Mali. When I set out the conclusions of the OVV, I come to as many as 42 errors in relation to this tragedy. Next, the Defense Department comes up with a list of 72 points by which it tries to put these errors into perspective. Does the Minister recognise and acknowledge the OVV's conclusion that the DOD has a problem with its internal security structure? It has rightly been published and discussed for days. It is now really time for us to let the Minister speak on this. What is the Minister doing to ensure that we get a self-conscious and secure Defence Organization? That is an organisation that deals well with signals and reports of deficiencies and is willing to learn from those incidents, just as Erwin Muller, the vice-president of the OVV, pointed out yesterday when he pointed out what is common in aviation. The Minister has now put in an operational pause to check in all mission areas whether equipment, ammunition and medical care are in order. Can the Minister explain what this break is about? What checks are being carried out and by whom? How are the results assessed? How is it ensured that these checks do not make the same mistakes as they led to the Mali accident? What are the consequences if deficiencies are detected? What conditions must be met before this break can be lifted again? And why didn't this break be inserted at the end of June when the DOD's draft report was presented by the OVV? I come to Togolese medical facilities, or role 2 as we call it. How is it that you perform a major mortar exercise with all the risks involved in firing so many grenades and then you think you can be satisfied with one general military nurse, two medics and a role 2 that already had doubts? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. If we send our men and women to very unsafe crisis areas, they must be able to count on their internal security being guaranteed, not only on paper, but also in practice. It is a tremendous realization that two young men who died in this tragedy did not get that safety. Like the whole country, we are deeply sympathetic to the families, but we have a responsibility here to do something about it. And so, as far as we are concerned, the Minister responsible for this is going to have the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u21	Mr Dijkgraaf has another question, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u22	I agree with Mr Ten Broeke's contribution, therefore, that this is not a question of 'welcome' but he said at one point: there is a problem with the security structure of defence. Given the rest of the story, I think it's mainly about culture. Joustra and his committee also say that it is not so much the measures and committees, but that it is mainly about how you deal with them. Does Mr Ten Broeke agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u23	Yes, very. It's certainly not just the structure. It's the sense of security. It's just following one's own procedures. Even if procedures are followed and reports are made from them, the question is what are you going to do with them? It's about feedback. It's about the inspections. They don't happen sometimes, and sometimes they do. If they do happen, then what happens to them? Throughout the chain of acquisition, storage, management and use in mission area and perhaps beyond, there are doubts. They are also quite pertinently put forward by the OVV. It's a matter of structure and culture, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u24	That's clear. Madam President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u25	Thank you. Mr Öztürk also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u26	Those were justified points made by Mr Han Ten Broeke about what happened there. But the Minister is also responsible for the culture of the Defense Department, isn't he? It was the VVD in 2012 that would put things in order in the Netherlands and in the world? I thought the VVD would bring a certain culture or leadership. I thought you said she was bringing you a piece of power culture. In recent years, has the Minister not been able to contribute to the culture you dislike so much? When I hear you like that, it's like you're like the Secretary of Defense, but you say yourself, "I've been here for ten years." How is it that you have known this for a long time and that this minister, your own minister, has done nothing about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u27	The questions about culture, structure and security awareness are becoming pregnant today because of the mortar accident that took place and the clear report that the OVV has separated from this. I have said to you, in my view, that my text also clearly shows that we, as a group, are shocked by this. The scale, the structural nature of it and the fact that it took place throughout the chain from 2006 to now have certainly surprised us, which does not mean that we in the Chamber have had our responsibility in the meantime. So we've been asking questions as a room. We've tried to improve security on this mission. I am thinking, for example, of the helicopters that have been sent along. When it comes to the role of the Chamber, I think you are right to look at me as well. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party have, of course, talked about this and I am standing here. So we need to get some good answers to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u28	The culture, the VVD culture, the culture of power: we have also seen it in the Ministry of Justice and Security. Then you were shocked by what was found there. Then Opstelten, Teeven and Van der Steur had to leave. How many VVD ministers must clear the ground before the VVD itself stops the culture of power which it brings not only into the media but also into society? When will the VVD Group discuss the culture of power internally?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u29	We are talking here today about a fatal accident, which should not have happened. Two young men have lost their lives, and one has been seriously injured. I have no need to talk about anything other than that. The responsibility that we feel as Members of Parliament, which my group feels, is ours. That's what I'm standing here for. All the other questions that Mr Öztürk wants to ask himself, I am happy to leave them on his behalf. I look forward to what he himself will bring into this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u31	Mr. Chairman. Sergeant Van Geffen died in June 2011. During a battle readiness course, he passed out with heavy blows, with fatal consequences. This was first withheld, but later came to the table. In the debate on this, in 2014, the Minister says about the shortages in the Corps Command Forces: the period of uncertainty is over. The Minister also writes: I can assure you that Defence has taken measures to prevent repetition. On 22 March 2016, an instructor of the Corps Command Forces died during a training in Ossendrecht. On 22 June 2017, the Minister writes to us: everything is aimed at getting the facts up and preventing repetition. On July 6 of that year, two soldiers died during an exercise in Mali. Improper mortar grenades, which should never have been purchased and deployed, are the cause of this. A third soldier was seriously injured. The report of the Safety Research Council shows that the fatal incident, which killed Kevin Roggeveld and Henry Hoving, did not have to and should not have happened. At DOD, everything that could go wrong went wrong. Error on error was stacked when purchasing, managing and storing the grenades. Where was the minister these past few years? She has promised a lot, mostly from a paper reality, but the practice is different. The Research Council for Security writes that serious shortcomings have been made in the care for the safety of Dutch soldiers deployed and that the importance of ammunition security and good medical facilities has been subordinated to the progress of the mission in Mali. That, while the safety of staff should, of course, be at the forefront of everyone's concerns. Military, our men and women, risk their lives when they go on a mission. It is our hard task to ensure that they are equipped as well as possible with equipment, health care and good working conditions. That task has failed. The prime responsibility for this is the Minister. Does she recognize that? If so, what conclusion does it draw from this? Defense made a blind purchase by purchasing rejected mortar grenades. This had to and would happen outside the normal procedure and against all kinds of signals. Apparently, there was a rush. The grenades were needed for the mission in Afghanistan. How did this happen? Is it possible that other defective ammunition is in use at the moment? I would ask the Minister to inform us as soon as possible and as carefully as possible. Also the Togolese hospital where the injured military has been cared for, I quote: 'was not ready in a human, material and organisational sense for adequate reception according to Dutch military standards'. How is this possible? Then why did the Minister say that security is enough? Has she misinformed the House of Representatives? The Minister had knowledge of the report in June. However, the government later decided to extend the mission in Mali. How is this possible, given all the shortcomings and knowing, since 26 June of this year, that there are serious shortcomings in the security and care of the military? Why didn't the Minister decide to take an operational break just one day after the huge fuss after the publication of this report? Does it recognise that this is not the first incident, that it has a structural problem and that the pressure to meet the political objectives has been put at the expense of staff safety? Does the Minister recognise that the can-do culture means that signals are not picked up or poorly picked up and whistleblowers are put away? Can we conclude that all this is at the expense of security? Despite all this, last Thursday the Minister dared to do the OVV report with the words "not resign but act." This is a toe-curving reaction, now that we know that the death of the two soldiers could and should have been prevented. How does the Minister look back on this statement? Why, apparently, has she failed to act all these years? Mr President, I will conclude. I'd like to thank the Research Council for his thorough report. I hope that this is the third report in a few years' time that will lead to the much-needed changes of a minister who does act. I wish the next of kin a great deal of strength in dealing with their grief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u32	I give the floor to Mrs Popken on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u33	Mr. Chairman. On July 6, 2016, two young soldiers lost their lives during an exercise in Mali. They were the 29-year-old Sergeant Henry Hoving and 24-year-old Corporal Kevin Roggeveld. The grief and loss of the next of kin will not have diminished: all the media have paid attention to it in recent days. On behalf of the PVV, I would like to express my sincere condolences to their families, friends and immediate colleagues. I would also like to pay tribute to the families. They have not been deported in a so-called industrial accident. They are now publicly fighting, despite their great sorrow, for the recognition of the gross misstep of the Defense Department. They fight for their sons because these boys can't do that anymore. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, everyone is familiar with the facts. Last Thursday, the OVV came up with a destructive report: Defence bought defective ammunition that the Americans themselves didn't even want to use and of which they couldn't guarantee quality and safety. This ammunition was stored in a wrong way for years and despite knowing that there were serious problems with these ammunition, it has not been re-tested or assessed all these years. Then our men and women were sent to Mali by this minister with these life-threatening ammunition. There it went horribly wrong: a man was badly wounded and two of our men were killed. This happened not by the enemy, but by our own material. For the third time in three years, the OVV strongly judges the Ministry of Defence. I quote: "If Defence had complied with its own rules, it could have been prevented." Time and time again, the same image comes out. Under the rule of this minister, the defense is not in order. Despite the fact that this minister's communication department was undoubtedly working overtime, her reaction was shamefully sad and bad, downright bent. In the end, only a few impersonally rehearsed one-liners and meaningless remarks came out. They were comments like "we care about all of this, me too" and "I feel responsible." And: "It's a thick report with a lot of details and we need time to study that." The worst thing was, in my view, "I don't want to resign but to act." Mr. Chairman. A minister should not only concern herself and feel responsible, but should also assume that responsibility. This minister sent our men and women on mission to Mali. She should have made sure they were sent on a mission with good equipment. The Chamber must be able to trust that, but that certainly applies to our military. My party welcomes an investigation into the entire defence chain to see where it all went wrong. It therefore wants to know as soon as possible whether our men and women on mission are working with good equipment and whether good medical care is available, so that a terrible accident like this does not happen again. But this does not alter the fact that we have a very clear OVV research here. And everyone knows this also applies to the parties in this Chamber and the parties sitting at the negotiating table. It is politically responsible for what has gone wrong and for the tragic deaths of these two young men. It cannot be convenient, personally, because this minister wants to move forward and aspire to a new ministerial post, and it cannot be convenient for other parties, for example the VVD, because she does not want to lose her minister, but that political responsibility remains, the political responsibility for those mistakes before, during and after that fatal exercise. I'm rounding up. This minister has been responsible for the Ministry of Defence for almost five years. She has been able to perform for five years. That didn't happen. I therefore ask this Minister, Mr President, to resign. I expect her to do the same. If not, I will table a motion of censure in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u35	Madam President, before we talk about the political side of this debate, I too, on behalf of 50PLUS, would like to wish all the people involved very much strength. I would like to say to the Minister: I sincerely understand that it must be insanely difficult to pick up the phone immediately after the report has been published and to have some very painful conversations with the family members concerned. What are you supposed to say? That your own organization failed? That mistake was stacked on error? Indeed, it was an insanely difficult conversation, but the Minister should have done so. How does the Minister look at that now? The draft report was sent to the Ministry on 26 June. So the Minister took fifteen weeks to prepare for such a painful conversation. And do I understand why she waited until last weekend? What happened in the meantime? What did she do with the recommendations and how did she improve the security situation of our men and women? Have their lives been in danger for 15 weeks? Once upon a time, I sympathized greatly with this woman, who is now our minister. I was up there in the public gallery. In that debate, she had to vote against a ban on the refuse official under pressure from the coalition partners, with just as miserable a coalition as it is today, despite her liberal views. Coalition parties go a long way in denying their principles. She voted wrong, but her face spoke volumes. She showed that she was human as well as a politician. Why did that humanity come so late? Why? Following the publication of the draft report, did this Minister immediately contact her colleagues in the cabinet, in particular the Prime Minister, her party colleague, and the Foreign Minister, who, together with his party colleagues Frans Timmermans and Jan Pronk, was always so much in favour of the mission to Mali? It surprises 50PLUS that the Minister has announced that more independent research would be needed. We are very much in favour of independent research, but in this case it seems to us really unnecessary. Looks like it's stalling. Or can she convince us of usefulness and necessity? The research council's report is ready to go, isn't it? It shows that parts of the Defense Department that guard the security of the personnel failed. Safety snowed under in favour of other interests. Life threatening information was either not detected or remained in rooms. Is the Chamber well informed in advance about all the risks of the mission? And how are and are all those responsible within the organisation to be held accountable? The debate on this accident places a great deal of emphasis on the cuts that have been made in the past few years. Yes, a lot of savings have been made, but as far as 50PLUS is concerned, procedures have not been followed sufficiently and mistakes have been covered up. That is separate from the finances; after all, you have to row with the belts you have. Previously, the General Court concluded that the Netherlands participates in too many missions with the budget that is now available for this purpose. What is the Minister's response to this? Finally, I would like to ask a few questions. What exactly does the Minister mean by an operational break? What does that look like in practice? Can she guarantee that our men and women abroad can focus on the dangers there and not be afraid of dangers from their own organization? In the decision-making process there are many documents that are not or no longer present in the archive. See footnotes 48, 49, 50, 51 and 56. This makes it unclear in many respects how certain decisions have been made and by whom decisions have been taken. Where did those documents go? How is the Minister going to ensure that employees who report an unsafe situation, for example, feel heard and appreciated, as has been said before in aviation? Madam President. Despite all the criticism, 50PLUS appreciates the fact that this minister is engaging in the debate with the Chamber. We look forward to her answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also reviewed the report with increasing amazement over the last weekend. It's heartbreaking. You will have to read as next of kin that your beloved son or husband died for that reason, because the own Defense Organization mistakenly misconceived and mistaken assumption on the wrong assumption and ignored warnings and complaints from one's own staff in several instances. Mr. Chairman. I've been active here for over six months and I've been shocked by the state of the Defense Organization. How often has it not been indicated that it cracks and squeaks in all its joints? The unions have called the bell. The Corps Command has sounded the alarm clock and even started a procedure. Even in this short period of time, I have asked many times what is going on with the capacity to continue. The Minister of Defense always came up with intoxicating language: "it's not easy," "everyone has to do their best," "tooth and nail" and then his missions are feasible and feasible. It is now clear from this report that this was not the case. In fact, the next article 100 letter is already on the table. That letter was written while the concept OVV report was already known and the Defence Organization knew long ago about the major problems in Mali. Can the Minister rhyme with this? Mr. Chairman. Dutch soldiers have gone on the road in Mali and deployed in life-threatening situations to save, protect and help others. In doing so, speed has gone beyond caution. That cost the lives of two soldiers, Henry Hoving and Kevin Roggeveld. A third is seriously injured, because his injuries were so bad, but above all because medical care was completely inadequate. I find it indigestible that we have sent soldiers while equipment and health care were not in order and far below the standards. How does the Minister see the fact that these men in an organization in which security awareness is the foundation have died or been mutilated by negligence? Mr. Chairman. What I find particularly regrettable about this matter is that in March of this year, during an information session in the Asser barracks, the Defence Organisation generously indicated to the relatives and colleagues that the men who were killed were not to be blamed. No, it was a technical flaw. Survivors were then relieved that the death of their friend, husband or son could not be blamed on the military themselves. No, God blesses, not them, but the Defence Organization! The insensitivity shown by the defense in the direction of the next of kin is appalling. They had to hear about the content of the report from the media, and even then, the Defence Organization only delayed contact with them. The minister prefers to act and not resign. How does she see that in those last couple of hours she is going to be able to arrange quickly what she didn't get missionary to do? How, for example, is it possible that the remnant of the grenades in Mali had already been destroyed without further investigation of these specific grenades, and that they are now administratively lost? How does the Minister explain that the draft report has been in her desk for three months, but that she has only now stopped all ongoing operations to check the safety of ammunition and medical care? That is wise in itself, but not very timely. By the way, when will the Chamber be informed about this? And can the Chamber and the rest of the House then trust that this is actually the right information? Is the DOD even capable of learning from her mistakes? After all, the OVV finds no visible motivation at the Defence Organisation to learn from events. A survey conducted by the AFMP last year showed that more than 65% of the interviewed employees believe that Defense cannot handle criticism. Many argued that criticizing has negative consequences for your career. This terrible accident has also been caused by this distorted culture in the Defense Department. Does the Minister realize that? And what does she think should be done to break that culture? GroenLinks has doubts about the professionalism of the advice given to the minister and about the excessive pressure that political pressure is placed on participating in missions. As a result, careful decision-making appears to be compromised. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the Chamber must now intervene, because we need to put things in order in the department. There must be a major study that addresses the commitment to missions, the general security awareness, the concern for the security of our military, the handling of internal criticism and, above all, the learning capacity of the Defence Organisation. It should examine how can-domeality apparently narrows security awareness and how this can be changed. What does the Minister think about this? Mr. Chairman. When I became a Member of Parliament, I had planned not to stand behind the cathedral here and shout "shame." But with this report in my hand, I have no choice. You have to say it because it's outrageous. However serious, with all our fine words, those beautiful boys Hoving and Roggeveld will not come back, and the damage to the third military will not be undone. That is unforgivable, indigestible and a deep scratch in the blazing of the Defence Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u38	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u39	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with a word to the relatives of Henry Hoving and Kevin Roggeveld, who both died on 6 July 2016. I wish them all strength and strength at this difficult time. It is my commitment that they receive an answer to the many questions they still have. I would also like to wish much strength to the military who was seriously injured in that same accident. Mr. Chairman. The next of kin have a lot of grief and anger. I can imagine that very well, especially if you have to learn from the newspaper that the fateful accident is a combination of repeated carelessness. The Minister's first reaction does not deserve a beauty prize. It could also have been different, especially if you consider that on June 26, more than three months ago, the DOD had access to the report. Does the Minister agree with me? Can she explain why no earlier action has been taken towards the next of kin? Mr. Chairman. In the report on the fateful accident in Mali, the OVV draws hard conclusions on Defense. There is talk of riding off risks, creating a paper reality, paying little attention to security and no willingness to learn from incidents. D66 does not understand that in an organisation that exists for our safety, which is there to protect you and me, there is consistently too little attention to the safety of personnel. This has already been concluded several times by the OVV. Can the Minister reflect on that? Mr. Chairman. Let me go into more detail about the investigation itself. Firstly, the purchase, storage and use of ammunition. Is it now being determined who purchased these defective grenades, why exactly and under what pressure? Is it also being considered how it could have happened that they suddenly showed up in Mali? Secondly, the medical facilities on mission. The Court has repeatedly pointed out the need for adequate medical facilities. We demanded protected containers, we repeatedly asked for medical evacuation capabilities, and we insisted on the permanent availability of helicopters. And rightly so, because when we ask people to risk their lives, we are obliged to minimize all possible risks. Then why does the Minister choose to rely on a defective hospital? Mr. Chairman. The Minister announced an operational pause after publication of the report and a follow-up study. That's good, but it's also richly late. How can you have access to this report more than three months ago and take ample time to criticise the report on 72 points, but only when the report is published will you take action? Can the Minister explain this? Can it indicate the consequences of the OVV report for the current missions and their extensions? My group has asked for this before. When can we expect a letter? Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point, namely the structural problem in the defence sector. For years, the Court of Auditors has been pointing out that there is an inconsequential exchange of defence, that there is a predatory construction and that there is a worrying situation. Following that Court of Auditors report, we tabled a motion last year asking for research into the structure and business culture of the Defense Department. We have asked them to be analysed and to come up with recommendations for improvements. Unfortunately, this motion did not obtain a majority in the Chamber. The OVV now concludes that there seems to be no willingness at the Department of Defense to learn from past incidents. Especially when it comes to guaranteeing safety, the attitude is to defend rather than improve. So there's something structuralally wrong in the organization. The question is, how are we going to change that? How do we stimulate a self-conscious, critical culture in which safety is a priority? Can the Minister respond to that? Is there sufficient knowledge and skills at the Ministry to initiate this process of change? I am also curious to hear the Minister's response to all the recommendations of the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u40	The OVV writes that the security of the military, as well as the medical care necessary for such a mission, has become subordinate to the political importance. That was in Afghanistan because the mission had to go ahead, those inadequate mortars had to be purchased and then it was in Mali, because if that medical facility were not put in order, the mission would not go on. Do you recognise this and what political conclusions do you draw from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u41	I have to confess, I don't know exactly what the question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u42	I'd like to repeat these. Does Mrs Belhaj recognise that the security of the military has become subordinate to the political objective of the mission in Mali?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u43	I think it is good to mention that when a cabinet decides to submit a mission in an article 100 letter, the Chamber asks questions as it has done, also by D66 about the conditions that are necessary, including those medical facilities. We asked those questions. Then it is up to the Minister, and to the Ministry, to indicate to what extent those facilities are present. I would not make your link between a political decision, the need to do so and the precondition for the presence of medical facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u44	Just so we're clear, I'm not linking anything to anything. This is a conclusion from the report. I ask that question, because if you acknowledge that, my follow-up question is: how do you see it in the ongoing missions? It was decided a month ago, knowing the contents of this report, to extend the mission in Mali, for example. That is why I ask what your view is. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u45	I share that question. That is also why, in my speech and a week and a half ago, I was the first to ask the Minister how the Article 100 letter to missions proposed for renewal relates to the OVV report. I agree with that question and therefore explicitly put it to the Minister. I very much hope that she will come up with a letter so that you can judge it when there is a debate on those missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u46	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u47	Finally. Does this mean that you conclude with me that this security must be guaranteed, if we are to give a go to these missions at all and that the pause that has been taken must take just as long until we are sure that security is guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u48	It is obvious that everyone in the Chamber will find the colleagues I have heard so far, but I am sure those I will hear will also be able to say that if we send soldiers on mission, those soldiers must be able to do their job safely. It is up to the Court to ask critical questions to what extent that is at issue. We have done so in the past, and we will certainly do so in the course of dealing with those missions which then lie ahead. That is not the issue today, but you can be sure that we still support the fact that people must be able to do their job safely. That must be a prerequisite before you decide to accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u49	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u50	Mr. Chairman. Henry Hoving and Kevin Roggeveld were professional soldiers. Their work for the Dutch military brought with them risks. They were willing to take those risks. Hoving and Roggeveld have put their lives in the service of the safety of others: the safety of the people in Mali, but also ours. It is the responsibility of the Dutch government to ensure that the risks are kept as low as possible. That means the Department of Defense must have its equipment and medical care in order. Military and their families must be able to rely on that. It is therefore extremely tragic that Hoving and Roggeveld have now been found to have been killed by inadequate ammunition. Even more tragic is that this should not have happened, as the report of the Security Research Council clearly shows. That makes the loss even more difficult for the next of kin to bear. Mr. Chairman. This incident isn't on its own. The Court of Auditors made it clear last year: the level of ambition is structurally out of balance with the resources that Defence receives. DOD never said no. Or at least they didn't listen to those who said no. That really needs to change. But, Mr President, we must also have the courage to look at ourselves honestly, as a Chamber. The Chamber may also have to ask through more questions than it did before, as the Research Council also points out. In the second term, I will possibly table a motion with a proposal to that effect. Mr. Chairman. There is an extremely painful and shocking report from the Research Council. The learning ability is very far away from the Defense Department. Rapid action was for quality and safety, according to the Research Council. On paper and in practice there are enough control moments present in the Defence Organisation, but in this case it appears that the Defence Department has always ignored all red signals. How does the Minister explain this, without referring to the can-domeality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u51	The president of the OVV has repeatedly indicated that despite the investigations, there has not been enough improvement in the defence sector and that there have been shortcomings with the equipment. How does the Christian Union assess in that case that it has repeatedly agreed to a mission in Mali?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u52	We can ask critical questions about this as a Chamber. I just did. I think it will take another debate to think about it in greater detail. But it is precisely with this mission that I can remember very well, because I have done the examination of the Article 100 letter myself................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There have been numerous written parliamentary questions. But also in the AO itself, the Chamber specifically asked for it to come to me later on whether the medical facilities were guaranteed, whether the role 2-hospital was guaranteed and whether the golden hour, the flight route within an hour, was guaranteed. In fact, the Chamber did not actually agree to the mission until those helicopters were actually promised. That was two or three months after we handled the mission here. In this case, I think the Chamber has been on top of it. But I still ask myself the question: can we do better and what do we need to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u53	Questions have been asked, but of course that is not enough. Perhaps the Christian Union should also put its own hands in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u54	I am standing here to put that question to the Chamber and to ourselves. I have already indicated that we are prepared to table a motion in second term. When we talk about this, we do have to look at ourselves. This applies not only to this report by the OVV, but also to the other reports we have had before from the Court of Auditors, which were also critical. This concerns 2012, 2013, 2014; you name it. Many questions were asked about these Court of Auditors' reports at the time. We can ask questions and then get answers, but my question is: how can we assume that these answers actually represent real practice? For that, we need to rethink and consider how, perhaps in a more solid way, we can get field reports and inspection reports sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u55	Very important: I think we all feel that responsibility and that we all have a lot to do in the years to come. But my question is more about all the reports, discussions and debates of recent years. If you put it together and listen to Mr Joustra of the OVV and the Court of Auditors, it will give you a picture. There have been cuts, but the task package remained the same. Do you share my view that essential choices will also have to be made in order to prevent the Defence Organisation from being over-asked and that, in conjunction with the can-domeality and organisational problems, this can lead to such accidents?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u56	As I have just said, the Court of Auditors has also put its finger on this. So the DOD's capabilities didn't match the ambition that Defense had. I note with you that in recent years, at least in the last two Cabinets, there has been considerable cuts in the defence sector. We regret that. Every time we try to raise money, we have every opportunity to do so, precisely because of the guarantee of security. I only note that your group never supported this. But I hope that, looking to the future, we can also see that more money is needed and that we can do it better. I also note that the OVV says that there have been cuts in key departments, such as purchasing. We must avoid this in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u57	Just to get it sharp, in response to your reaction. My group has warned year in and year out that you cannot cut back and continue on the old ground, namely to support all missions, to buy the JSF and to buy submarines. My question is crucial, in the sense that I ask you how you see it in the future. Do you share with me that, given the report we are discussing today, the mission pressure, which is also mentioned in the reports, should at least be reviewed in relation to the means we have to put security first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u58	We note in this report that the cuts have led to structural errors of this kind, regardless of how many missions you carry out. So we were unable to send our defence apparatus and our military safely to Mali, with good equipment, with the right care. Your question is: do we want it to be different in the future? Of course we want it to be different. But I also say to you and to your group: are you prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u59	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u60	I note that up to now this has not been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u61	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u62	What I asked Mr Voordewind is whether he shares my view that fundamental choices need to be made. I hear you saying that is the case. We make the fundamental choice for another slimmer force by saying no to a number of missions and by not purchasing a number of things, such as the JSF and the submarines, so that we do not ask over. I have to say that the Christian Union Group is indeed saying here today: we will have to have this fundamental debate. We will have to see whether that will bring us 8 billion and a majority for that, or the other defence, who will be able to do his job. But I note that the Christian Union is also saying here: we will have to have this fundamental debate on the future of the armed forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u64	That's right. That is a debate we must have. We find that the Defense Department has already issued the peace dividend three times. If we want to talk seriously about a defence device that not only performs beautiful missions in Africa, we also note that these missions are crucial for our own security: abroad has become inland. I hope that if we have that debate, the SP will not run away from the money that is needed for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u66	Then it's about care. The hospital in Kidal has been accepted for emergencies, even though it did not meet all Dutch military standards. During the debate on consent to the mission in December 2013, the Chamber specifically asked the Minister whether the role 2-hospital and the approach route for medical evacuation, the so-called golden hour, were guaranteed for our people there. The Minister's answer was: yes, that is guaranteed. According to the Research Council, it appears that the Togolese hospital in Kidal did not meet the Dutch standards. Also in the Article 100 letter, the renewal letter for Mali, dated 11 September last, there is nothing about defaulting or improving the hospital in Kidal. Why does this extension letter not go into that, when the Minister had been in possession of the OVV report since 26 June? In May 2016, the Department of Defense Medical Inspection team, see page 7, notes that the hospital could only be used in extreme situations. How does the Minister explain all this? Can our military in Kidal now count on full trauma if something else goes terribly wrong? I would like to hear the Minister's response on that point. While the Minister had already seen this report on 26 June, she only called the next of kin last weekend to express her regret. It also decided only yesterday to take an operational break in all mission areas in order to carry out additional security controls. Why has it taken so long to take this measure? Why wasn't it taken in June? How long will these additional inspections take and what does this mean for the extension of the current mission in Mali? What does it mean for the military? Are they gonna stay in the barracks that long or are they gonna go on a mission? Is their safety guaranteed or not? Are the risks justified, even now that we've seen the criticism of the hospital in Kidal? I would like to hear a response from the Minister on that point. Then there are the questions about the culture at the Department of Defense. Why wasn't ammunition investigated and tested after the mission in Afghanistan before it was decided to use it again during the mission in Mali? How does the Minister explain that some of the respondents in this survey from the OVV say that reporting the unsafe situations made little sense because nothing was done about it? Does she recognize this? How is she going to ensure that something is done about it and that those critical noises are heard within the Defense Department? Mr President, I will conclude. This debate does not adequately reflect the in-depth research work and the hard conclusions and recommendations of the Research Council. There will still have to be a wide-ranging debate if there is, of course, an extensive response from the cabinet, including those who have ignored all the red signals, which has finally enabled this tragic accident to take place. That is what our soldiers deserve, the home front but above all the relatives of Henry Hoving and Kevin Roggeveld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u67	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Knops on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u68	Mr. Chairman. The sad reason for this OVV report is the death of a poor mortar grenade by Sergeant Henry Hoving and Corporal Kevin Roggeveld, two soldiers of the 13th Infantry Battalion Airmobile from Assen, soldiers who participated in the mission together with their colleagues in Mali. And another soldier was badly wounded. They were also men with a home front, with families who should be able to trust that the danger doesn't come from within. They've been very badly hit. Mr. Chairman. In this Chamber we decide on broadcasts to often dangerous areas. Then we are well aware that there are risks involved and we are trying to avoid them in this Chamber as much as possible. But that as in this case two professionals who are not to blame, die because mistakes have been made by the organisation they are part of and who send them, and then again because of mistakes and omissions that could be prevented, is even harder. A few months earlier, in March 2016, a member of the Commando Corps was killed at the shooting range in Ossendrecht. The Chamber will be discussing this later. Here too, much has gone wrong and here too the OVV drew hard conclusions. The report on the mortar accident reads as a large succession of errors and omissions over ten years regarding the purchase, storage and use of these 60 mm grenades. In 2006, Defense signed a purchase contract for more than 37,000 grenades through a Foreign Military Sales Procedure, whereby a purchase contract was signed without checking for quality, design and specifications, without knowing the nature of the energy substances and the safety measures for the product, assuming that these ammunition was in use by the Americans and was therefore also tested. This despite the fact that the Americans have stated that they cannot guarantee this: in any case in the purchase contract. No programme of requirements was drawn up. The reaction of the Dutch military attaché was that "the Dutch government is aware of and agrees to these restrictions," without anyone in The Hague knowing or now claiming to know. One can no longer remember that we saw in the report or there is no more documentation. Because of this procedure, the Department of Defence Suppliers Supervision, which normally ensures that the supplier complies with the terms of the agreement and complies with the schedule of requirements, has not monitored it again, assuming that the ammunition suitable for the US Defence Organisation is also suitable for the Netherlands. Nor has a type rating been requested from the supplier. Since there was no type classification, the fully standardised safety approach control has not been carried out. Since no type classification has been carried out, the Military Committee on Dangerous Substances has not moved. Due to the absence of a programme of requirements, the very low mask safety was no reason to refrain from purchasing and self-contained temperature and lifetime limits were applied higher than those issued by the manufacturer. The OVV's conclusion was harsh: the Defence Organization made a purchase in the blind, with fatal consequences. Then I come to the findings of the medical treatment of the wounded military after the explosion of the mortar grenade. Driver's driving to the wrong hospital. Surgeons don't work according to protocol. Anesthesia is not properly applied. The helicopter of another, not to mention, land was not considered appropriate. There was no subsequent evaluation. Mr. Chairman. The medical facilities have always been an issue for our group and for many groups in this Chamber. It is not for nothing that we in the debate called for the importance of our own transport helicopters, including co-vac. In the mid-term review of 7 May 2015, the Minister wrote very briefly: "During a working visit by the Defense Department in June 2014, it was found that the UN role 2 facility, intended for advanced surgical care, does not fully meet the high Dutch standards." That was Gao. But what about Kidal? In the debate on MINUSMA on 22 December 2014, the Minister said about operations in Kidal: "We do, of course, have certain conditions that need to be met, such as adequate medical support. All that's enough." Where did the Minister base this ruling if there had not even been an assessment of medical facilities in Kidal during the fact-finding mission? Has the Minister at any other time informed the Chamber of the fact that the Togolese facility was only used in extremism, as is now apparent from the OVV report? If yes, when and how? The OVV claims that the Togolese role 2 was not rejected, partly because the DOD assessed the risks at Kidal as not high. It remains unclear what this assessment was based on, because the UN was talking about high risks. Is it true that the rejection of the role 2 facility had resulted in the end of operations at Kidal, because according to its own rules could not work without role 2 that could not be reached within two hours? Isn't there, I ask the Minister, a paper reality created here? Why was the Togolese role 2 used in extremes? This is precisely about serious, life-threatening situations in which the highest demands are placed on surgery. What if there were many more victims? Does the Minister share the OVV's conclusion that in Kidal the establishment of appropriate and therefore safe medical care has been subordinated to the progress of the mission? Why has there not been a systematic evaluation of aid after the accident? That was obvious given the seriousness of the incident and the poor quality of Togole role 2? Why has this opportunity to learn not been exploited? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the Minister's position immediately after the publication of the report. Let me stick to the facts. Why does the Minister suddenly send a supplementary note to the Chamber on Friday 29 September, a day after she presented the OVV report with a letter of offer, in which she reports that she has launched an operational break this morning in all mission areas and that additional security checks are being carried out in the area of ammunition and medical care? I agree with those who asked the question: if the Minister had been informed for three months, why didn't the Minister immediately order this measure? Another measure the Minister is taking now is the investigation led by an external chairman into culpable and/or negligent actions by defence personnel. My question is: what does this research look like? And what were the conclusions of the earlier investigation, carried out by the Royal Marechaussee? Has the Minister considered pressing charges himself? Mr. Chairman. I assume that in its first term, the Minister will first and foremost address the questions we have asked in detail, and will clearly reflect on her own responsibilities in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u69	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u70	Thank you, Madam President. The SGP deeply sympathizes with the intense grief that relatives of Henry Hoving and Kevin Roggeveld feel. Losing a loved one on a mission is intense. But if it is so obvious that this could have been prevented, then this sadness is particularly heavy. I therefore wish those who have been affected by this grief a great deal of strength with all my colleagues. Madam President. On this issue, it has gone wrong on all sides. I ask the Minister to respond to the following points. One. Grenades are bought, while it is completely unclear whether they are safe. The Americans state that they cannot vouch for the soundness of this delivery. But the Dutch army still uses the grenades, without a safety check. That's impossible, isn't it? Two. Inspections are carried out over the years, but with the concerns that arise from them nothing is done. These inspections, that's how I ask the Minister, aren't there for nothing? Three. There are several employees who express their concerns. But it's not gonna do anything about it either. The Safety Research Council notes that there is no open attitude to ensure that concerns and errors are sufficiently learned, while learning from mistakes is essential to prevent such accidents. Four. Medical facilities seem to be in order if the Chamber agrees to the mission, but in retrospect the Research Council finds that they were not in order. How is it that adequate care for our military is not guaranteed? Has the Chamber been sufficiently informed in advance? Madam President. As far as we are concerned, this is not an incident, it is a structural problem. There are all kinds of safety safeguards, but there is a culture that leads to this type of accident being prevented. I quote the report of the Research Council: 'Many procedures relating to security have only been carried out in part or not at all. Commissions haven't moved, regulators haven't stood by. Insofar as deficiencies have been observed, for example in the quality of the ammunition storage, reports from inspectors have not been sufficient or at all led to actions for improvement." Madam President. Having said that, I come to the essential question of ministerial responsibility. Ministerial responsibility means that ministers are accountable to Parliament for everything that has happened under the responsibility of the department entrusted to their care. I would like to point out that ministerial responsibility should not be limited to personal culpability. Ministerial responsibility means that if mistakes have been made under her direction, she is accountable. The mission to Mali has gone a lot wrong, as it turns out. It is therefore up to the Minister to answer to Parliament now. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats notes that serious mistakes have been made. Being able to rely on the safety of the equipment is essential for the military. And when there's a culture that doesn't guarantee this, it weighs heavily. A shortage of money is a worrying thing, and I hope we agree on that, but it can never be an excuse for a lack of safety or medical facilities. The progress of a mission can never go beyond military security. If the Minister himself had any doubts on this point, she should have sold a clear no at the start or the start of the mission, and that was not the case. In this debate, the question is: are the extremely serious facts and the exceptionally firm judgments contained in the report of the Research Council correct? For us, this is the key question in order to assess whether and, if so, what political consequences should be attached to the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u71	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u72	Mr. Chairman. Corporal Kevin Roggeveld was born in 1991 in Groningen; he died in Mali at the age of 24. First Class Sergeant Henry Hoving was born in 1986 in Midwolda; he died at the same place as his colleague at the age of 29. Kevin and Henry were in Mali to restore security and stability in Mali and protect the citizens. They were part of the air-mobile brigade. They were both killed in a mortar accident during an exercise. I want to have our boys honored again and wish their next of kin a great deal of strength. Last week, the report of the Safety Research Council on the mortar accident appeared. The conclusions of the report were devastating. The chairman of the Security Research Council himself indicated that they were shocked by the amount of missing persons, because this was not about one or two minor mistakes or mistakes. This was about structural, amateuristic, systematic blunders. I have a number of questions for this Minister. Could the tragic accident that killed Kevin and Henry be prevented? How is it possible that the quality tests have not been complied with when purchasing the mortar grenades? Is it customary for a NATO ally, in this case the United States, to sell unsafe material to allies? Are we going to talk to the United States about this? Are they liable? If not, why not? Has it happened before that we have bought defective material? If so, from whom and when? Question four is an important one: can you rule out the fact that we ourselves have sold defence equipment whose quality cannot be guaranteed? Why was participating in the missions in Afghanistan and Mali more important than the safety of our boys? And why did the DOD send our boys on this mission knowingly with unsafe ammo? Does the Minister share the view of Kevin Roggeveld's parents, who see the tragic incident as a case of death by guilt? Kevin and Henry's lives can't be brought back. This Minister's eagerness to participate in missions, including the United States, has ultimately cost our boys their lives. The minister said we should be in Mali. The Minister said: we must participate in billions of projects and buy submarines and fighter planes. No, Minister, no, you didn't have to. One of your primary tasks was to take care of the safety and basic needs of our boys. As the Security Research Council also concludes, the Minister has created a paper reality in order not to endanger missions in Mali and Afghanistan. The pats on the back from America were sacred to the minister. The missions weren't allowed to be compromised at all costs, but our boys were in constant danger, but that was less important to the minister. Mr. Chairman. No one seems to have any faith in this minister anymore; the next of kin doesn't, the military doesn't. For example, 84% of the military indicated that they had no confidence in this minister as early as February. Even our Deputy Prime Minister, Asscher, says that the Minister should quit, while his own party colleague, the Foreign Minister Bert Koenders, is getting away from the dance. The former UN envoy in Mali was Bert Koenders, one of the main lobbyists for the mission in Mali. First the PvdA of Koenders framed the VVD to join and now the PvdA of Asscher gives the judaskus, stabs a knife in the back of the VVD and washes her hands in innocence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u73	I doubted for a moment whether I should place this interruption, because of course Mr Öztürk is talking about his own words. However, I would like to remind him that there was a time, not so long ago, when Mr Öztürk was a member of the Labour Party and who was more than full-hearted, without any comment I have ever heard, agreed to this mission. My question to Mr Öztürk is: where is that self-reflection of yours?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u74	I knew that question would come. We figured it out. Mr Kuzu and I in the PvdA Group have reluctantly agreed to the mission to Mali. The time after that, when the mission had to be extended, you should also have that checked, Mr Knops................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This shows how we feel about these matters and how we vote on these matters here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u75	We notice how you voted here every week, so I will not respond to that. The point is that you walk away very easily on your first consent to the mission. I just indicated that consenting to missions isn't something your overnight decides. Those are tough decisions for all groups. So you said yes first and then you said no. It's good to mark that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u76	We look carefully at every mission. In the time of the PvdA we voted in favour, Mr Kuzu and I, reluctantly, with a lot of questions and internal discussions. I think it is clear what was in the media about this. Then, when we were working here on Group Kuzu/Öztürk and DENK, we deliberately said no to the extension. Conscious. This shows that we too dare to express our concerns openly here. Mr. Chairman. Let me go to the VVD. The Netherlands must be liberated from the VVD power culture. It is quite clear that this club did not serve Dutch interests, but its own interests. The Ministry of Security and Justice and the Ministry of Defence had to be the crown jewels of the VVD. They would make the Netherlands safer and deal with criminals, but they turned the Ministry of Security and Justice into a second party office, where deals were dealt with criminals. Defence was the pride of the country, said the VVD, but meanwhile the ministry was transformed into a learning place to score an international job. Mr. Chairman. The crime fighters of the VVD have failed. The VVD officers are now working overtime to straighten out everything that's crooked. But the Netherlands is done with the vocabulary games and plans of the information team of the VVD. The canyon is in sight, Minister. The informers aren't jumping. So try not to stall with an external investigation. But if there is to be an external investigation, I would start with the VVD and with the minister. Mr President, I will conclude. I got a flyer pressed in my hand a few months ago: defence personnel in action. It says, "We are loyal to you. We are loyal to politics. We are loyal to our employer. But the minister and politics are not loyal to us. Minister, where is your loyalty?" My final advice to this minister is: Minister, make room for a new minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u77	I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u78	Mr. Chairman. Sergeant Henry Hoving, 29 years old, and Corporal Kevin Roggeveld, 24 years old, of the Air Mobile Brigade died on July 6th last year in a mortar exercise in the desert of Mali. A third red beret was badly wounded by shrapnel. He was 23 years old. Mr. Chairman. That accident should not have happened and should not have happened, says the Safety Research Council. The Research Council also notes that the overall government and political summit of Defence bears responsibility for what happened to the fatal mortar accident in Mali. The Research Council carefully describes the staggering state of affairs to which young brave people have been exposed by the political and administrative summit of Defense. I quote: 'The investigation has shown that the ammunition in Kidal was stored in a metal sea container that did not meet the transport and storage conditions laid down by the Defense Department'. And: "Calculates show that the temperature in the sea container increased daily to 63°C in July, while the Bulgarian weapons manufacturer has to this day a maximum of 50°C in its product specifications." Sounds about explosion hazard and therefore about the security of the military on the mission remained within the military organization. Military didn't know what danger they were in, with all the consequences. Mr. Chairman. Our Secretary of Defense already knew on 26 June of the draft report of the OVV. She saw no reason to apologize for the way things were going, not to the parents of the soldiers affected, not to the Chamber. She has not acted and she has not resigned either. It lasted until 2 October of this year, more than one year after two soldiers died from this horrible accident and one was seriously injured, before the Minister contacted the next of kin by telephone. Apart from the ministerial responsibility for the heavily condemned risks to which the military are exposed, the apparent lack of empathy is hard to blame for the Minister. For the next of kin, the excuses now made are probably too little, too late. They will sue the State for what has happened to their neighbors and for what has been done to them. Mr. Chairman. In such circumstances, it is particularly painful for the Minister to use the ballerian spokesmen's platforms on which her party appears to have patented. Like her former colleague, Teeven, the minister does not resign, but acts, that's what it was called. I would like to ask the Minister to explain clearly here and now how she has acted since the draft report of the OVV came to her attention three months ago. What has she done to prevent repetition? What has it done to give substance to its political responsibility for this tragedy? And what has she done to bring clarity and comfort to the next of kin? Mr. Chairman. This debate is not about the position of the minister or her future career prospects in the light of the advanced formation. This debate is about taking ministerial responsibility. A minister who, after such a drama, out loud suggests that she will not resign and therefore does not want to take ministerial responsibility, thus indicates that she does not take her responsibility seriously. It thus undermines the confidence of and in the armed forces, and in politics in general. Such an attitude is shameful to the next of kin and to all other citizens, and it undermines the concept of "Ministerial responsibility." The Minister knew when she took office about the depravable situation of parts of our armed forces, but nevertheless decided to assume the political responsibility. In my group's view, running away from this responsibility makes the Minister unfit to carry it further, either in this cabinet or in a subsequent cabinet. I would therefore like a clear explanation from the Minister, which the Chamber may be able to change its mind. And finally, Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals deeply sympathizes with the relatives, the families and all involved. We wish them a great deal of strength and a great deal of strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u79	I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u80	Mr. Chairman. This terrible event in Mali is, first and foremost, a tragedy for relatives, friends and colleagues of the soldiers who have died. I would like to wish them much strength on behalf of the PvdA Group. And all the military who are now on the air or are about to go. At their home front, the research of the OVV will have arrived hard. Because the sad and shocking conclusion after reading the research report is: this tragic accident had been prevented. I appreciate that the Minister is here today to discuss this with us, because this was not an isolated incident. As early as 2010, the Court's report was extremely critical of the provision of information within the Ministry of Defence. Next came the investigation into the safety culture at the Air Force in 2014, the shooting range incident in Ossendrecht in 2016 and now this destructive report to the mortar accident in Mali. The security of the personnel must never be a lockpoint in the Defense Department. The report by the OVV shows that it did not go wrong once in the run-up to the terrible accident in Mali, it has been said before that it was wrong on error. A blind purchase, no type ratings, poor storage, no monitoring and shelf life and temperature requirements that differ from the manufacturer's instructions and when it went horribly wrong, the medical facilities were not in order either. What is the basis for these crucial mistakes? The can-domeality is often mentioned as a cause. We know our military as people who work for more than 100%. Despite difficult circumstances, our men and women are doing fantastic and important work in, for example, Afghanistan, Mali and Lithuania. And look at Sint-Maarten, where they work very hard. At the same time, after reading the report, the question arises as to how what Defence claims to be able to carry out relates to practice. If the top wants a mission, can it really or is everything liquid under pressure? And at least as important: is there enough room to answer these questions critically? You don't say no to the Square, according to a soldier I spoke to. We in the Chamber have no choice but to rely on information from the Defense Department itself. That is what we base our decision-making, our careful decision-making. But that does not, of course, relieve us of the responsibility to remain realistic about expectations on missions. Mr. Chairman. In response to the report, I have the following questions to the Minister. First of all. In December 2014, the Minister said about the operations in Kidal: we obviously have certain conditions that need to be met, such as adequate medical support. All that's enough. On what basis did the Minister arrive at that conclusion? Secondly: Defence has already received the draft report, which has already been mentioned earlier, in June. Why was an operational pause and additional inspections not announced until after the official report was published last week? The inspection reactions in the annexes to the OVV report outline a disenchanting picture of a ministry that tries hard to trivialise the conclusions of the OVV report. Does the Minister recognize himself in this criticism? There were complaints about the ammunition in question. Nothing's been done with that. How does the Minister respond to the statement in the report that reporting makes little sense, because nothing is ever done with it? What does it take to change that organizational culture so that there is enough room for critical discussion and self-reflection? That there are people who dare say no to the Square? How does the Minister ensure that we as a Chamber can take informed decisions? Defence has a plan of action, a so-called road map, for future employability. But Lieutenant General off duty De Kruif said last weekend that the armed forces are not ready for the future. How does the Minister judge that? How does that relate to ongoing and upcoming missions? The Minister has again announced an investigation into the incident in Mali, but we do not think that is necessary after all the investigations. What we feel more about is an independent investigation into the mechanisms that allow these errors to accumulate; in short, into the checks-and-balances within the organisation. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. Military are there for our peace and security, but we must guarantee their safety. That is why I would like to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u81	Thank you. Mr Baudet, what are you wearing? I do not think it is appropriate for this debate. Are you a soldier, Mr Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u82	The story of my outfit will become clear immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u83	I call Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u84	On July 6, 2016, Sergeant Henry Hoving and Corporal Kevin Roggeveld were killed in Mali's desert by an improper mortar grenade that exploded during an exercise. A third soldier was severely wounded to his abdomen and upper legs. This terrible accident could have been prevented, should have been prevented and is entirely due to an accumulation of errors under the leadership of Minister Jeanine Hennis VVD. Halsoverkop previously, in 2006, bought mortar grenades from the Americans of Bulgarian make that did not fit the shock tubes used in the Netherlands. The Americans indicated in the purchase contract that they could not vouch for the quality. After inspections by the Defence Munitions company in Veenhuizen in 2007, an ammunition technician advised not to use these grenades for proven defects. This opinion was not followed. Then these improper mortar grenades were stored under uncontrolled conditions in containers in the African desert, which exceeded the maximum temperature far. The on-site medical facilities were also incomplete. In short, Defense bought old Bulgarian shit from the Americans, then failed to check it and also stored it in Mali improperly. Our soldiers were unable to obtain adequate medical support in the event of calamities. Unacceptable! But worst of all, this is not an incident, but structural organizational problems in the Ministry of Defence. This summer, the Corps Commando came up with a letter of fire, yet another, stating: "We have now arrived at the point where the material and the means with which we have to work are in such a poor state that we no longer consider it safe to work with it without creating life-threatening situations." According to the military, these include guns that explode in the hand, silencers that detach from firearms and connection radios that just go into combat situations. The situation is so serious that some 90% of the marines would have taken over the purchase of material at their own expense. Take the shoes. Hennis offers them these Meindls made of synthetic material that quickly fills itself with water. Marines run hundreds of miles and ask for leather Lowakists for example. Those are the boxes I have here. Because Hennis doesn't want to give it to them, they buy it themselves for €185 per pair. The vest I'm wearing right now is an OPS vest. This is what Defense makes available to our Marines. This vest, which you buy for a few tens, hangs together with rubber bands and clicking systems and has no room for a bulletproof plate. For this you have to put on an extra vest again, but with two vests over each other you can hardly move your arms, let alone that you can shoot or dive well. That's why many military now buy their own money vests like this, the Warrior Plate Carrier. They pay €265 for it, but it's worth it to them, because they risk their lives for the protection of our country every day. It's shocking and it brings shame to the jaws to see how the VVD deals with our military. Here we see the worst working of 30 years of party political power games, in which career politicians operate without knowledge far beyond their capabilities, for example as Minister of Defence. This must end once and for all. FvD wants competent people, a knowledge cabinet, a military in Defense who also increases spending on Defence to 2% of GDP. Jeanine Hennis has failed horribly and must now disappear from the political scene. We will table a motion of censure in the second term and we believe that Hennis should never come back, not even in a new cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u85	Which brings us to the end of the first... will you bring your outfit, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u86	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I propose that in an hour's time we proceed with the Minister's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u87	We will continue with the debate on the report of the Safety Research Council on the accident of the mortar in Mali. I'll give the Secretary of Defense the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u88	Thank you, Mr President. It's pitch black days. It is for the families of the soldiers who were killed and for the colleague who was seriously injured, but also for their friends and colleagues from the thirteenth infantry battalion of the air mobile brigade, for everyone who is involved and for anyone who feels involved. The fatal events on July 6, 2016 hit everyone very hard. Me, too. This also applies to the fatal shooting exercise in Ossendrecht, to which some of your Members referred. Immediately after the fatal events, I said: the bottom stone above, and thus complete openness. I am therefore very grateful to the OVV for the report. The conclusions are coming hard, hard. Everyone, you and me. Like many others, I keep wondering what I could have done to prevent this tragedy. That's the same question I was asked tonight. The harsh and harsh reality is that we do not reverse the fatal events, but it is our duty to continue to ask that question and provide answers, to ensure that this never happens again. As Secretary of Defense, I am not only responsible, but also responsible. Not only for what I decided during my term of office, but also for the actions of my collaborators, both military and civilian. I take that responsibility by taking responsibility here in your Chamber. I'm very attached to that. This is how our parliamentary democracy works. And you know, the fatal events, and so does the OVV report, do not lend themselves to political quickies. Let me be clear: the last thing I want to do is undermine the findings of the OVV. As soon as the report has been published, I have made it clear that I am taking over the recommendations. But, Mr President, I do think it is important to have the debate with your Chamber, to be able to place the findings in the context of human action at any time and also to do justice to the Defence Organisation. Precisely to provide full openness, to learn and to prevent repetition. Mr President, I am not saying anything new when I say that Defence is a special organisation, with more than 55,000 employees, both citizens and military, with many branches at home and abroad and with a very special core business, namely the achievement of peace and security, where military personnel are extremely willing to give their lives. Defence's work is often spoken in exalted but also in abstract terms, even when we are discussing each other. People talk about things like the international rule of law or about a better world. I can tell you one thing: the work of our people is anything but abstract. Day in, day out, 24/7 and all over the world, thousands of people work under complex and risky conditions. They tinker with vehicles. They make it possible to use weapon systems. They navigate on ships. They're arming helicopters. They keep communication systems in the air. They provide emergency aid. They run the air traffic well. They maintain food supplies. They're recruiting new staff. They do shooting exercises. They carry out trainings, and so do special operations. It's just a brief list. Tonight, I really want to stress that all these people must have the safety and health of their colleagues first, no matter what they do and in what position they are in. No one in the Defense Department and yet I heard it this afternoon in the Chamber wants to trade with it knowingly. You know, the risks inherent in the work of Defense are really challenging enough. Because, yes, there are risks involved in this work. That doesn't mean I'm gonna tell you anything. However, these risks must have been recognised, as the Court quite rightly points out, they must have been thoroughly assessed and, where possible, measures taken to minimise those risks. Our procedures and regulations are therefore aimed at this. The OVV notes serious shortcomings. This means that risks have not been sufficiently identified and/or weighed and that procedures and regulations have not been complied with at different times, starting in 2006, when purchasing the ammunition concerned. As high as the operational need may have been back then, Defense could have done more. You're right about that. The OVV is right about that. At the time, however, the Defence Department considered that the additional functions had provided sufficient security. On the basis of the data available at that time and the positive functional test.......................................................................................................................................................................................... The procedure is then that as soon as that ammunition is released for a period, there is no trigger in the system to carry out a final type rating within that period. It is obvious, even to me, that this is a system error. It will have to be tackled in this way. Even after the end of the Dutch commitment in Afghanistan, this need has not been recognised. What may have played a role in this, I don't speak well with that and I don't play down anything, but I'm just trying to explain the context of the human actions of that time.The fact is that over the years the Netherlands had lost more than 25,000 grenades of this type without any significant problems. That happened in Afghanistan, but also during exercises at home and abroad. Today, I note that this argument is not valid. For the record, I have heard a lot about this in recent days and earlier this evening, I note that the remaining ammunition from Afghanistan has been returned to the Netherlands but that it has not been raised to Mali. We don't, even now. So we're not moving ammunition from one mission area to another mission area. So I would stress that the ammunition in Mali was not simply a remnant of ammunition from Afghanistan. Mr. Chairman. The Room also discussed a longer service life and a higher maximum temperature for storage and use, a longer service life and a higher maximum temperature than the manufacturer had prescribed. As far as my knowledge of the course of events at that time is concerned, it is true that there was a desire to purchase ammunition with a longer lifespan. However, the date of expiration is indeed similar by the Defence Department to the period indicated by the supplier, i.e. ten years. Now the maximum temperature. Indeed, it is a lot more complicated. In the contractor's documentation I'm talking about General Dynamics............................................................................................................................................... Those who have read the report know this story to some extent. That information on the maximum temperature of 63 ̊C is included in the ammunition registration system. It is striking that the performer who did this functional test prior to commissioning apparently sought information himself. I don't know where he looked it up on the Internet, but at least he got off at 50 C. The test is therefore based on 50 ̊C. It has not become known to me why that difference between the temperature originally reported by the contractor of 63 ̊C and the temperature of 50 ̊C which has been tested has not led to an adjustment in the system, or this has become unclear. Of course, we're gonna find out more, but it's wrong. I would like to point out, however, that for the context of human action, almost all ammunition items for operational use are tested at 63 C. As a result, the temperature of 63 C, as indicated by the contractor and included in the registration system, was not considered to be special at the time. In any case, it's clear that Defense should have handled the maximum temperature of 50 ̊C. Mr. Chairman. It has also been said the necessary about the ammunition technician who, at the first visual inspection, I emphasized that after delivery had given or would have given advice to block the mortar grenade type. As far as my knowledge is concerned, at that time the standard-writer of the Defence Munitions company concluded that the defects found were not such that they could not be repaired or that the ammunition would be unsafe for users. In the case of a visual inspection, you should think of defects or imperfections such as the packaging, the "marks" on the packaging or the mixing of lots. In any event, the norm-seller considered that the functioning test had to demonstrate whether the ammunition could be used and so on. So after carrying out that positive function test and after the necessary repair work it is not unique that repair work is taking place, that happens much more often.... he decided to release the ammunition for use. I repeat, this is important, because otherwise you think that I am trivialising the situation here that I outline the context for human action at that time, as far as my knowledge now extends. The report concerns not only the purchase in 2006, but also the storage and use in later years in the Netherlands and later in Mali. The storage in Kidal then jumps into the eye. It's a forward heading. I think the Chamber is well aware of the fact that a forward-looking item is aligned with the specific circumstances. Such a circumstance may be the duration of temporary stay. Now it is also known that ammunition is in storage or that ammunition is spent on the units. That's the so-called combat load. Now your Chamber also knows that the Dutch MINUSMA detachment is stationed in Gao, but that units can also be deployed temporarily from Kidal. Those units will get ammo from Gao. It was planned that the units would take the ammunition provided to them when they returned from Kidal to Gao. There would then be an inspection at that ammunition complex in Gao and it would then be decided whether the ammunition is still suitable for use or should be destroyed. This method also applied in the year 2016. It has been shown that this method has not always been followed in the past. So ammunition was left in a container, in Kidal, while that container was not provided with additional protection against environmental influences. Now there has also been some talk about indications and applying for insulation material and sun protection in order to better protect that container from environmental influences. As far as I know now in spring 2016 for the first time asked for that insulation equipment, for that sun protection, to arrive at a more conditioned container in Kidal. Mind you, it's not that weird what happened then. That request was eventually rejected because it was said that the instruction was: you take the ammunition back in accordance with the agreements and then the ammunition is inspected there, in Gao. Only after the request was made again during a subsequent inspection in August 2016, will the container be equipped with insulation material, sun protection in November 2016, but I also note that there has been incorrect, late and too slow acting. Mr. Chairman. Then, according to the OVV, the ammunition appears to have been exposed to heat and solar radiation for too long during the fatal exercise. As stated by the OVV, the omissions in the care of the quality and safety of the ammunition during both purchase and storage and use together formed the context in which the accident could have occurred. In other words: risks are not sufficiently identified and/or weighed at different times. Mr. Chairman. I will come to the medical care and disposal later, but I repeat what I said earlier and what a number of Members of Parliament have also raised this evening. The safety and health of our people must always be at the forefront. The home front must also be able to rely on that, even now. The unrest that has arisen in recent days is understandable, of course, also reaching our people in the mission areas and, not insignificantly, also at home. It even has a huge impact on the home front. Therefore, last Friday, early in the morning, I decided to order an operational break in addition to the measures already taken and announced. In all mission areas, therefore, additional security checks were and are being carried out on ammunition and medical care in order to ensure that everything is in order and that procedures are complied with. Then, of course, here is the question "why only now?" on the agenda; I understand that. Why not immediately after receiving the draft report from the OVV? But, you know, we immediately announced a very far-reaching inspection in the summer. The Rotation Support Team has been there since we received the draft report, with ammunition experts present in the area to turn everything upside down in Mali. So that was prior to ordering this operational break, with much more attention being paid to security awareness and so on and so on. In other words, for Mali, which is the subject of the report, checks have already been initiated, which we now also carry out in a more transparent form on the other missions. I think it is important to emphasise this here, because our military are not only in MINUSMA in Mali, but all over the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u89	The Minister mentioned in her introduction that this issue and this report do not lend themselves to political quickies. I very much agree with that. But then the first question to the Minister is: does she recognise that the reaction on Thursday, when the report appeared, was to suggest that she would not resign but act, was a political quickie? And does she recognise that this fatal accident could and should have been prevented?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u90	I will be on the medical disposal in a moment, but I think I have just been very clear about the fact that the OVV rightly notes that the omissions in the quality, care and safety of ammunition have led to the context in which this accident could have occurred. So, yes, if I were to be able to eliminate with retroactive effect all those factors that led to this, in the sense that the risks would have been sufficiently identified and weighed, then I hope this accident could have been prevented. What you saw with me on Thursday, correctly, you said: "smart and toe-curvy" was the heaviness of the report and the pain of the next of kin, which I also feel. I'll be back on the next of kin in a minute and the contact with them. You saw someone trying to do justice to a lot of aspects, because the question was whether it was safe. That was a one-dimensional question, but I didn't have a one-dimensional answer, because there's a whole complex of factors behind it, as the OVV puts it. I've dealt with that kid and I've reacted weirdly. And afterwards, a few hours later, you know what you'd like to say. I couldn't do it at the time. I'm just a human being, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u91	People are all of us. Because it is about life and death, because it is such a difficult subject, it is by definition a subject in which we want to hear an answer from the Minister. I repeat the question. Now she's saying, "Okay, I've been acting dumb." But from June onwards she had knowledge of the report. She only wrote to us that day, Thursday, the letter saying that she is not going to resign but to perform and that she is coming up with a plan that will be rolled off for six months. My question to the Minister is as follows. I read from the report that this accident could and should have been prevented. Does the Minister recognize that? And does the Minister recognise that she should have put the mission on hold more quickly in order to guarantee the safety of our men and women?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u92	Mrs Karabulut now asks a lot of questions in one sentence. A number of aspects will be discussed in detail in the near future. I wish I could have prevented it. The hard reality is that I haven't been able to prevent it. That is why we are standing here tonight to have this very difficult debate with each other. You, too, actually ignore a complex of factors and demand another one-dimensional answer. I wish I could have prevented it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u93	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u94	The question isn't whether the Minister wants it. Of course we would have wanted to prevent all of this. But the question is whether Defence, for which the minister is politically responsible, is the learning organisation that says: "Yes, a batch of ammunition has been purchased that was defective. That was a blind purchase. We shouldn't have done that. Yeah, we said the health care was in order. That was not the case afterwards. We should have and could have prevented this." Then you can look ahead and ask the question: what are we going to change? I'd like to hear that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u95	I think I've just been extended, almost half an hour, no, that's not true; it was 20 minutes ago confirmed what you're saying. Risks have not been identified and have not been sufficiently balanced both in the case of purchase and storage and use. These have led to the context in which this accident took place. If all of this had happened, this accident might not have occurred or occurred; I would never dare say it with 100% certainty. But at least we would have gone a long way further in excluding crucial factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u96	First of all, I should like to say that it is a good thing that the Minister is accountable here in this Chamber. My question concerns the letter from the day after the report was presented, in which the Minister ordered that operational pause. The Minister received a report three months before that date with the same conclusion as the report we have now received. If you check at that time if there are any problems or if everything is in order, I can understand that. But if the Minister says that she has commissioned an operational break to respond to the unrest, then that is actually an investigation or a break for the stage. If there is a problem and the Minister does not trust his own storage and management of ammunition and his own medical facilities, she will immediately initiate an investigation. But if the Minister does that three months after the date, and one day after she offered a letter to the Chamber, it is not strange that the Chamber should ask why she took that measure that day? That looks like some kind of panic reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u97	No. It's not weird at all that you're asking questions about that. But it's not a measure for the stage. You will not blame me for having asked questions after I had once again received and read the report, which was something other than the draft report, and had had a restless night about it. I decided two things at the time. The first was ordering that operational pause to make sure. I also said: if this does not work, if there are real doubts, we will pull the plug on every mission; I want to be sure again. But when I thought that, my home front and our people in the mission areas were at the forefront. Because there was unrest here, in the media and on social media. I don't blame anyone; I understand that. But this unrest has also reached our people and the home front. Then it is not only for my own peace of mind, but also for extra reassurance, reassurance, that you check it again, even though you know one thing for sure, namely that missions are constantly tested. That is done on the spot by the commander, and through reports and inspections. We announced an additional inspection in MINUSMA after the draft report was published. But again, we're all over the world. So I ordered that operational break because we have more people, including in other areas. I wanted to make sure that everything was in order there too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u98	Let me be clear: I fully understand such an extra inspection. The report of the OVV also gives every reason to do so. I just don't understand why the Minister deliberately or unconsciously took the risk of waiting three months. The Minister took note of the draft report three months earlier than the Chamber, which I assume is hardly different from the report we received. I would have understood if the Minister had said at the time: there is a risk here; I want to guarantee security, and I am now ordering an operational pause to inspect all of this. But to wait three months and then, even a day after that offer letter, to come up with a new letter to say you're going to inspect it again, that sounds strange to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u99	This report concerns Mali. When I received the draft report, it was under embargo. So I was not able to inform the Chamber, as Mrs Karabulut might have just suggested. That's not how it works. You know the procedures of the OVV. I'm not gonna consciously train with six months for a policy response. But those are the deadlines that are also known to the Chamber when it comes to an OVV report. We're doing everything as fast as we can. I can understand why you say, "Why didn't you just go wider? Why did you only look at Mali?" Because at that time, and frankly not at this time, there was no concrete reason, on the basis of the information we had, of the ongoing checks that are taking place and of the ongoing checks on the missions, to carry out a similar inspection there at that time. Nor is one mission the other. A ship on the high seas is of a different order than the deployment in Mali or Iraq. At that point, we didn't decide. But I did decide last week. I'll say something about that in a minute. Maybe it'll help a little if I tell you which ones have been released. But of course I can't find that again...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u100	My point was actually that there's a reason or not. If there's a reason, the Minister is acting. Then I understand that the Chamber will not be informed at that time because the OVV report is not yet public. But if there is no reason and the Minister has faith in her own organization, is it not necessary to carry out an inspection? It is, therefore, whether it is one where the Minister is convinced that it is true and that there is no need for inspection, or the other, where the Minister doubts and pauses to inspect the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u101	After receiving the OVV report in concept there was doubt and there was reason. That was about Mali. We did. That goes on. After last week, a broader unrest arose that transcends Mali. It was about much more, about matters that we will hopefully discuss extensively with each other: the can-domeality, the learning capacity of Defence; the same song over and over again. I felt this unrest, not only with me in the organization, but also here in the Chamber. I felt it in the mission areas and at the home front. That was the reason for me to make sure once again, not so much to doubt previous reports I had received. It's the safest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u102	My question is actually about the same thing. I hear the Minister say that it was only later that she found a direct reason to take that break. But also in the draft OVV report is actually enough reason to be concerned about multiple missions. It states quite carefully that there are structural problems and that people in the defence sector cannot do their job safely and with all the right health facilities at the moment. I ask again why you did not use that to think: hm, we have three Court of Auditors reports and a draft OVV report in which it is noted, and yet I wait for just as long to intervene until people get worried. Why didn't you use the other elements in the OVV report to decide that it was wise to take an operational break?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u103	The OVV is conducting in-depth research, and I cherish that, because that is good in case of generally a terrible event or a risky event. The three OVV reports to which you are now quickly referring do have similarities, but they are not entirely tossable. One was about Ossendrecht and the other was about the CLSK. Nor is it true that all three of them are in the mission areas where we are now active. I have just said that I had no indication in the line, even towards me, of ordering an operational break in the summer immediately after receiving the draft report. I did have that reason for Mali after receiving the draft report from the OVV. That's what we initiated. Last week, we ordered an operational break for all our missions. I've just outlined how that went.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u104	Actually, I have two more questions. When exactly did the Minister see the OVV's draft report? I repeat my question. Apart from Mali's specific situation, there were still a lot of other situations where you should think: "Maybe there's more going on in my ministry. Maybe I shouldn't treat all these things as incidents? Maybe I should add all these things together and feel like something's wrong before?" You may not see something that is present, namely that people in certain places cannot do their jobs safely. You're not going to tell me that you didn't see this in a pattern, but as an incident, apart from those OVV reports and the Court of Auditors reports on which we've had solid debates? There was also a motion from D66 to look at that culture and that structure, because I do not think that went well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u105	I've just indicated that I've come back extensively to the learning capacity of the Defense Department, the security awareness and the security culture. We're still at the very beginning. I just finished the part about ammo. I still want to go to the medical drain. I just mentioned why we ordered an operational break following the draft report. I am really going to serve Mrs Belhaj by coming back to the learning capacity in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u106	I do not want to be served, I just want to have an answer to my question as to why you only approach it as an incident and not in a broader context. That operational break might have been legitimate a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u107	There's no way I'm gonna see it as an incident, not at all. I'm sorry, but this equation is really limping.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u108	There are also a number of comments from GroenLinks about that operational break. You now indicate that you immediately had the OVV report in Mali looked at the situation. What I find very striking is that you were not beaten back when you read that report, because for the umpteenth time it was said that signals from the workplace were not taken seriously at the summit, or that this did not lead to another function. I am surprised that you have been on it all these months, if I may put it that way. I also really want to hear from you the extent to which people who had been on the air have been in an unsafe situation, possibly unnecessary, because you have been on this reaction for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u109	There's a lot of stuff going on around here. I have just said that there is an entire military line of the commander in the area, the chief of operations and the Commander of the Armed Forces, who will take care of their people and who will never knowingly and knowingly negotiate with the safety and health of their people. I will come back in a few moments to can do, to take responsible or irresponsible risks and to learn. Let us be careful now that we do not paint an image as if we are deliberately playing with the security of our military and that I have sat on a report. It's just not like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u110	No, I would assume that you did not sit down on the report, but you did sit down on the reaction to the report and I think you have, as far as I can see now, but I would of course like to await your answer, not immediately, when you found for the umpteenth time that these signals were not coming through from the workplace. You didn't have to take three months, because I think you could have done that on 27 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u111	I don't know which signals... The OVV report deals with a number of cases. Does Mrs Diks now mean the signals from an ammunition technician in 2006?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u112	For example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u113	Unfortunately, I have not been able to find out, but I have just tried to explain the context for the action at that time, because they were flaws, according to the norm writer, in which it was a visual inspection of the brands on the packaging and mixing of lots that could be repaired. I think I have just carefully tried to explain this when it comes to human action in the context of that time, but I cannot find out exactly what Mrs Diks is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u114	Finally, Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u115	Just that term "context" you're using again, which I think you've used three or four times. The context of the accident led to the accident. Do you mean to indicate that human activity, for example, has played a role in this? In my view, the OVV report also made it very clear that the soldiers who were killed were not to blame in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u116	On the contrary, I use the words of the OVV tonight very carefully, because unfortunately in recent days a lot of terminology has been helped into the world that is not being used by the OVV. I always agree with that. I keep saying that omissions in the care of the quality and safety of ammunition have formed the context in which this fatal event has occurred. Those are the words of the OVV and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u117	I also had doubts about this interruption, because I am now the fifth, sixth, seventh person, but somehow this minister, who, she said, would like to give answers, cannot answer the questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u118	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u119	But the questions are pretty clear. Well, it looks like you're all about the hot stuff. You got the draft report in June and then charge an operational stop in for Mali, but not wider. Last week you did, not because of the facts, but because of the unrest. Because of the unrest on social media or because television programmes now pay attention to it, do you think: now I am pulling it wide and I read an operational stop? So you're not concerned with the facts. Then what are you doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u120	I have just, I think, tried to explain very clearly, but perhaps not clear enough, so I would like to do that again once again that there was a very concrete reason for me to carry out an inspection after receiving the draft report from the OVV. That report concerns the 60 millimeter mortar grenade used in Mali. It was about an accident that took place in Kidal. That was the reason for me to act on receipt of the draft report. On the basis of the internal reports and advice from the military line, from the commanders on the ground, from the Director of Operations and from the Commander of the Armed Forces, I had no reason to order an operational pause for all the missions we are currently on. Last week there was unrest. That's a fact. I think that's understandable. I'm not judging: it's a fact. We noticed that this unrest also reached the people in our mission areas. It also had a huge impact on the home front. We meant it then, even though we have there... That's a fact, that impact. You want to remove this unrest from the home front and from our people in the mission areas. You want to make sure once again that that is what this is about; I believe that it is also the case in my letter of inquiry that procedures are being observed and that everyone is being put in a position when it comes to compliance with the procedures. You want things to work out and ammunition to be put away in the right conditions. That's the point. I had no reason to do so, but if there is unrest in the home front and in the people who have to do their work every day under difficult circumstances, then that is a fact for me and then I have to act on it. And I did last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u121	So the Minister is actually saying here that her acting wasn't about facts or circumstances, but just about unrest. That is, of course, a very bizarre answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u122	Oh, yeah? Is that a very bizarre answer? Distressed by the military in mission areas where deployment takes place under harsh conditions? If they can no longer focus on that commitment but are distracted by that unrest? Well, that's a fact. That has an impact on that mission. That's what I've got to deal with, and that's what we've been acting on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u123	Finally, Mrs Popken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u124	I understand the minister's gonna be angry, because of course she doesn't have a story. That's just a shame. The story is shaky on all sides. Acting on unrest: with all due respect, but you are Minister. And the story that you had no reaction to the camera because it touched you deeply... I believe it affected you, but you knew that in June as well. You knew what was coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u125	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u126	Madam President, the Minister knew what was coming. And even then, three months later, she has no response. Then you have no political feeling because you don't know what to say, or you make a mess of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u127	You're well aware of that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u128	The Minister says that, after receiving the draft report, I did not include an operational pause because I wanted to be sure and had an inspection carried out. Then why, even though you knew or at least had strong suspicions that things were wrong in Mali, did you ask the Chamber for an extension of this mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u129	I'm still trying to get to medical care, medical care and disposal, but the extension decision has been considered in the military line and within the cabinet. We will talk to you about this later. We have looked at the reports we have and the information at our disposal. The fatal accident took place in July 2016. Between that moment and now, a lot of measures have been taken. Let me be clear: measures were taken immediately after the accident and measures were taken following the publication of the OVV report. There are inspections going on. But that doesn't mean a mission has to stop immediately. That may be a conclusion, but we do take a look at the facts before us and base ourselves on them when it comes to decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u130	So I can conclude that the Minister, who received the draft report in June, not only failed to take an operational break immediately, so as to be sure and avoid things as they have now happened in the future, but has pushed forward an extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u131	I believe that a lot of things are now mixed together, but I leave this judgment to Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u132	I understood the question. It's not my question, but I understood him. With the knowledge of the OVV report which the Minister had on 26 June, she sent an extension letter to the Chamber on 11 September. The extension letter does not contain any indication of the improvements and recommendations proposed by the OVV, whereas the Minister already had that information. There's no reference to it. The Minister could not do that publicly, because the report was not yet public, but we do not see anything about it now either. Anyway, I came here to ask you another question, but I'll explain it to you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u133	Thank you for remembering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u134	Now I understand him better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u135	This is a very important point and my question follows on from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u136	Wait a minute, Mrs. Karabulut. Mr Voordewind, is this all right with you? Mrs Karabulut has a point she forgot to raise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u137	I've been standing here for a while, but I'll wait. We still have time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u138	It is in line with this and is a rather crucial question. The investigation report says that there has been a serious lack of care and safety. The Minister will know that in June. She's not doing anything. The Minister will know in July. She's not doing anything. In September, the decision to extend the mission will be taken without any change in these circumstances. Only last week, after the commotion, she put the missions on hold. How is this possible? How could the Minister take that decision in September? What guarantees does she provide for the safety of the military?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u139	This is factually incorrect. I have taken a number of measures: right after the accident, a little longer after and after receipt of the draft report. I have just explained that, for example, the Kidal container is now equipped with the right equipment when it comes to the storage of ammunition. I would very much like to go to the medical conclusion, because the Chamber has rightly asked a lot of questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u140	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u141	Mrs. Karabulut, I'll give you an opportunity later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u142	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u143	Well, finalizing... I know that with you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u144	But to conclude, something doesn't add up here. You can't decide to shut down the mission last week because it's unsafe, when you said a month before, having knowledge of this report, I decide to extend the mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u145	You made this point, thank you very much. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u146	I was, after all, triggered by the previous question, so I'm going to ask the Minister. It's just a question of fact. The Minister had the report on 26 June. It then sent an extension proposal to the Chamber. Did you make use of the recommendations and errors all mentioned in the OVV report when you wrote the extension letter to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u147	Sure. The purchase of the ammunition took place in 2006. I just outlined that. By definition, the Defence Organization must learn from that for all ammunition supplies, explosives, that we have. That's over 500 in total. That doesn't matter from Mali. When it comes to storage, it is crucial that we implement the recommendations one-on-one, not just in Mali but in all our mission areas. That's done, because otherwise you won't even be able to extend. I'll be right back on the medical drain, but I'm a little ahead of the Togolese hospital, also called Role 2. That is a very hard point for the Chamber, I understand that very well, but I would like to explain why Defence uses it, even after an inspection, even after receiving the OVV draft report, when it comes to situations in extremes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u148	Perhaps it would be useful for the Chamber, but also for the debate to take place in a somewhat orderly manner, which the Minister also mentions a number of issues which she has a great deal to say about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u149	I was just thinking about the operational break. The impression is now being given that this was done when there was no reason for it, but I think there was a reason for it. If there's any unrest that's gonna put the military's work under pressure, you're gonna have to do something with that. That's what they've been acting on. We have done it to make sure once again, but if anything comes out, it will of course be dealt with again. It's not like you're gonna take the results for notification. Suppose something comes out in the case of MINUSMA and we have a discussion with the Chamber about its extension. Then the Chamber can demand from the Cabinet that we be completely open about this and that we do not talk to the Chamber about the extension until we have 100% certainty that it is all true. These are all legitimate questions, otherwise an operational break will not make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u150	However, I would like to know which subjects you would like to raise so that I can take this into account a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u151	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I'm so in the subject that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u152	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u153	This is the subject of operational breaks. I would like to say a few words about accountability, the other research mentioned in Friday's letter. Then I go to the medical disposal, the "can do," about which much has been said, the next of kin, the learning ability of the Defense Department, resources in relation to possibilities and then I'm pretty much there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u154	Mr. Voordewind. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u155	I'm actually starting my first question. That's why I came here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u156	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u157	I'm gonna ask them anyway. I wasn't ready to go to this part. I was still in the ammo supplies to Mali. The minister said about 15 minutes ago that the grenades had been used in Afghanistan. Then they went to Mali.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u158	No, I specifically didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u159	Well... I read here that 10,000 of the stock that was left from Afghanistan then went to Mali, out of 25,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u160	Yeah, but that's not true. Is that literally in the OVV report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u161	On page 68.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u162	No, there's a supply from Afghanistan. I have just explained that more than 25,000 mortar grenades have been lost in Afghanistan without significant problems, but also during exercises at home and abroad. The remainder from Afghanistan was returned to the Netherlands, but not brought to Mali. There was also a stock in the Netherlands. It's staged in Mali. As usual, ammunition in an area of deployment that is over and returns to the Netherlands is generally no longer usable for another mission area, unless specifically released for it. In this case, it is not the case that a remnant of Afghanistan has ended up in Mali.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u163	Okay, but I can see it's the same grenades.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u164	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u165	In Afghanistan, therefore, it has worked with it in such a way that, from the report from the practice sites, refusers, blinders and grenades have been found with broken additional Cardassians. These were the conclusions of the OVV report on the use of the same grenades that we finally used in Mali. Does the Minister recognize that? Why didn't they ring the bell at the time that so many mistakes were made? The answer in the OVV report is that the manufacturer has been notified and that the manufacturer says that he unfortunately does not have any other types of grenades available. Then the same type of weather was used in Mali. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u166	I don't know which page you're on right now. I have a fairly photographic memory...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u167	Page 68.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u168	Yes, but also in terms of debate. There has been a customization. I don't know if it was because of this or something else. The fact is that in the end 25,000 mortars have been lost by the organization at home and abroad, including in Afghanistan. Questions have been asked to the manufacturer, which I know too, and I believe that this has led to an adjustment of use. I'm just digging, because I have a lot of information in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u169	No type rating has been performed. That was because that was not possible at first, as we read in the report, but in the second instance they have been in custody and stock management in the Netherlands for seven years. And then no type rating was carried out, knowing that this regularly caused errors in the use in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u170	But I just explained that. I too have been of the opinion, no, I too believe that when they bought in 2006, they were not sufficiently alert to all kinds of disclaimers from the US. Let me just say it in my own words. More could have been done, but in the end there has been a risk analysis, a functioning test, and on this basis the ammunition has been released for use. I have just explained that if ammunition is released for use, there is no trigger in the system to do it in the meantime in that period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u171	Really the last question at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u172	Final Chairman. Even then, we should have learned lessons from the duds, from the grenades with broken-up supplemental cardoons. This is information that the OVV itself has traced. If you have this information and you're using exactly the same ammo back in Mali, then all the alarm bells should go off, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u173	At different times, alarm bells should have gone off. Otherwise, we wouldn't be here tonight. Alarm bells should have gone off at different times, both when they were purchased and stored, and when they were used. I fully agree with Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u174	That is a good line, because it is in line with my question. The Minister says that there was no reason for me to go wider than those 60 mm grenades. But if the Minister had not yet received the report from the OVV and the question had been asked whether we could trust those 60 mm grenades, then the Defence Organization would have said yes, because it had been released. So that applies to all possible ammunition. That applies to the defence-wide deployment. What was the mechanism whereby the Minister said: I can still rely on the answers that come from that Defence Organization? Surely it was obvious that at least in one case it was proven that the organization failed on many points? Couldn't that be the case with all kinds of other systems?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u175	I have just repeatedly tried to indicate the context for human action at some point. After receiving the OVV concept report, it was not easy to get all the information on the table internally. There is talk of the divisional mechanism of defence. Internally one is generally keen to offer full openness, but it was not easy to get all the answers on the table immediately. I am right in saying that Mr Joustra also said yesterday that we have almost 500 ammunition items, including explosives. But because unfortunately it went so wrong in the case of the 60 mm mortar grenade, you can't write off the entire organization yet. With that, we're gonna make the Defense Organization a little bit short, without me trying to trivialize the findings of the OVV. But I do like to zoom in on what we are talking about. And that is what I think Mr Joustra actually said yesterday in the debate with your Chamber: we are investigating if something terrible has happened or if irresponsible risks have been taken. Apart from that, you are right, of course, that on receipt of reports of this kind, you are asking for a really ten times. I'll be right back to the organization's learning skills.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u176	Yes, Mr President, but if it says on page 75: despite this multitude of organs and instruments, which have the joint task of making safe weapons and ammunition available to the Dutch military, this goal has not been achieved in terms of ammunition for the 60 mm-mortar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u177	That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u178	And then the Minister talks, and I understand that in itself, about the context of human action. She says things went wrong, really wrong, but that's understandable from the context. Then I would think: that of that human context can also apply to all kinds of other systems. So what's my assurance now that everything is working properly? It won't all be wrong, but maybe the 81 mm grenades are also wrong. I can't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u179	I fully understand that and that is why I come back so separately to the learning capacity of the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u180	Mr President, this is not about learning ability. That is a very special point, and it is a good thing that the Minister sets it aside. It is also a question of looking at the consequences of learning in the future, at the time of such a report, but are the things we use now safe? There's no guarantee anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u181	Well, okay, I've just outlined to you what defense does, with over 55,000 employees all over the world, 24/7 every day. This is a terrible tragedy, but let us focus on the situation we are talking about. Of course it eats me up when I get a report like that. Then I wonder what's going on with the rest of it. It is not for nothing that I have announced a number of measures. That's really in my learning capacity block. What do we do to check a closing type rating or to find out if we have used any more of these fast-track procedures at the time of Uruzgan? Are those things still in use with us? I want to know all that, and you're entitled to that, too. All these things are going on, too. I can answer that. Just for the record, the policy response of the Defense Department is still on the way. We have that report, you received it last week, and as usual there will be a very comprehensive and complete policy response, in which a number of things can be discussed in detail and in which there must also be the assurance that this can be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u182	Finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u183	It is a good thing that this is happening towards the future, but I would have expected that once the Minister had seen that report, she would actually ask one meta question: people, how can I know that the system is working? That question may have been raised by the Minister, but I do not see any mechanisms that have arisen in the meantime, in the last three months, and which have increased security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u184	That question was asked, not just by me. That question is now becoming and has been asked throughout the organisation. What could I have done? I started my speech with that in order to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u185	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u186	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's okay if I keep going to medical care now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u187	Mrs. Belhaj, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u188	Before we move on to the medical aspect, there is one more thing that is not entirely clear to me. General Dynamics' bid would have expired on 29 December 2006. The correspondence, the talks with the acquisition team and the military attaché in Washington indicate that the latter put pressure on the latter to complete the procurement procedure before that date. I am so curious who put that pressure on and why, because that is relevant, partly on the basis of your last comment. If you want to know to what extent mistakes may have been made in other places when purchasing ammunition, it is also good to know who in which place under pressure from whom such decisions have been made with such fatal consequences. Could you tell me a little bit more about who put that pressure on you and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u189	I wish I knew. That is precisely the reason why, of course, I would like to know that I think it is essential to establish when there has been culpability and/or negligence in the last ten years. I've informed the Chamber about that. That is an investigation led by an external chairman, Jeroen van der Veer. It will start tomorrow or it will start today, because I consider accountability to be of great importance, including in the military line. That's what this investigation is all about. It also means that the research has also looked very closely at the methods that have caused these shortcomings. Was there pressure, improper pressure? That reproach and negligence is very important in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u190	I'm glad the Minister's having that checked out. Of course, there may be internal pressure in the organisation, but you were not a minister at the time. What I really want to know is to what extent there has been political pressure to accelerate this process. There were also discussions at the time about the decision-making of, I believe, the mission in Afghanistan. So I would not only like to look internally, but I would also find it interesting to include the political dynamics and decision-making associated with it in that research.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u191	I'll write that down. I have not yet been able to determine whether there was any political pressure. The rulers of that time are known. There were also several people involved. We actually had a Secretary of State for equipment back then. Anyway, that research is being conducted under the direction of Jeroen van der Veer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u192	Mrs. Diks, at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u193	Yes, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like some further information from the Minister before moving on to the issue of learning ability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u194	I'm gonna go to medical school first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u195	Okay, I'm obviously very interested in both. You indicate that you have taken a number of measures and that you will, of course, come up with a policy response to this report, but I would really like to have an overview of the measures you have taken in Mali in the shortest possible time after receiving the draft OVV report and now in the operational pause.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u196	I'd be happy to send that to the Chamber. The Chamber has been informed of a number of measures at various times, both in terms of safety culture and safety awareness as well as directly following the accident and receiving the report. If I understand Mrs Diks correctly, she is asking for a complete overview so that she can keep the overview.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u197	That's the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u198	Exactly, please write and please be quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u199	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u200	Then I suggest that you really move on to the other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u201	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to medical care. The OVV states that the first reception at the site of the accident was carried out adequately. However, the OVV also states that this cannot be said about initial reception in the second line. The following drainage chain and follow-up treatments have been carried out adequately, according to the OVV. I think it is important for this debate to go back to the second line of initial reception. There has been a great deal of talk over the last few days and also here tonight about the so-called role 2. It's always had the attention of the Defense Department. Many visits have taken place from the beginning. Let me really stress that. However, a medical planner and a military doctor were chosen for assessment and not initially for an experienced clinical doctor. I therefore wholeheartedly endorse the recommendation of the OVV that in special cases and especially in the case of a partner with whom we have no experience, an experienced clinical specialist is of added value. I've been asked what I've done since the draft report came out. We had one of our clinical-medical specialists visit the Togolese role 2 exactly in accordance with the recommendation of the OVV. After that visit, it was once again established that this hospital meets the requirements of the DOD in the framework of damage control surgery. As you yourself have said, this has really only been designated for use in situations in extremes. I also think it is important to stress that medical care in Kidal has been life-saving. This does not affect the recommendations of the OVV, but let us also make this clear. It was life-saving and the work of the Togolese doctor has been evaluated twice by other surgeons, by French and Dutch specialists. In both cases it has been established that the work was carried out correctly and that no further reconstruction was required. Of course, I have also studied the findings of the OVV. We've looked at the department internally every week with everyone involved in the entire medical line once more. We said, okay, we need to keep the way the DOD conducts the medical assessment under review again. Then we'll do the clinical doctor the O.V.V. is asking for. And when it comes to life-saving acts, the Defense Department wants to learn natúrlijk. So, in the future, in accordance with the recommendations of the OVV, Defence will explicitly initiate an analysis or chain analysis itself, precisely to monitor, control and, where necessary and possible, improve the medical process, including in an international environment. Mr Ten Broeke said... if I may finish this point, Mr President. I would like to take a friendly look at Mr Knops, who is standing by the interrupting microphone. Mr Ten Broeke said: how can you do that in a major mortar exercise? But there is a difference between operations being performed and an exercise. A risk assessment, but also the level of threat, plays a role in this. As your Room knows, when performing an operation, there is always a co-vac helicopter to be able to transfer wounded to Gao, within the so-called golden hour, which we have often discussed with your Room. That goes for all operations from Kidal. If no surgery is being performed, but if preparations are being made for deployment or a number of things are being monitored and if an exercise is decided upon, then there is a risk assessment. Then there is also something like the level of threat on which you base your actions; I said that just now. The NATO approach is simply followed, including for the medical line. Just in those cases, you'll see what you're gonna do when there's a situation in extremism. The role 2-hospital is therefore really only there for emergencies and will never be used in an operation, if there is also covac-capacity. This was an exercise. The risk was assessed differently from surgery. On the basis of the risk assessment and the level of threat that I have just referred to, it is also determined how many medics should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u202	Are you done with this piece on medical care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u203	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u204	Well, I'd like to suggest that you finish the block on medical care first. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt, Mr Knops. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u205	After the accident there was talk with the aid workers involved, including the senior medical officer who came on the scene in that Togolese role 2, the treating surgeon in the French role 2 and the treating surgeon in the Netherlands. The conclusion was that there is still a difference of opinion or understanding between the OVV and Defense. I'm not taking anything away from the recommendations, but the conclusion was that the chain had worked and the wounded's surgery had been well performed. But like I said, we're not deaf or blind. Following the draft report, that additional inspection was immediately carried out with the involvement of a clinical physician, and again the Togolese Role 2 was released for use. I repeat what I just said: this has been constantly paying attention with visits by the senior medical officer and visits from the Director of Operations. Inspections took place in October 2014, March 2015, May 2015, October 2015, May 2016 and also after the accident. Sometimes, even after a repetition of assessments, you come to the same conclusion, in this case the conclusion that the Togolese hospital meets the situation in extreme for which it was intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u206	Were you done with this point? Then Mr Knops has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u207	The problem I have with the word "in extremism" is that it turned up after the OVV report. The Chamber has asked for proper medical facilities in the front. If there is surgery in areas, then that golden hour rule applies and there must be care in case of emergency. The strange thing is that in extremes that Defense has now linked to it, that this minister is now linking to it, makes that precisely in circumstances where people have to rely most on high-quality surgical specialties, you should go to a role 2-hospital where the OVV judges about two pages that sound slightly different than what the minister just said. I'm having trouble with that. So I have difficulty with the fact that the Chamber did not know about this, precisely because the Chamber attached so much value to it. I also have difficulty with the fact that I am now using the word that the OVV also used is reasoned away from it, is actually driven towards it. In a situation with four or five serious injuries at the same time, which would not have been unthinkable, it would have been very clear that this role 2 could not have handled that. Does the Minister consider that she has sufficiently informed the Chamber on this point? To what extent does she still support the statement that this role 2 was sufficient to answer the questions that were also raised in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u208	Yes, as far as I am aware, I have informed the Chamber in all conscience and fully informed it on the basis of the information I have shared with you. I do think that, especially if there is a murmur about it, it is good that we also switch between Chamber and Defense: how does that work in extremes, what exactly is the chain? Suppose a helicopter can't leave due to weather conditions. The medevac can go to Gao, the golden hour cannot be reached. If you have to choose between someone who then slips away from your hands and dies and has someone operate in the hospital that is intended for extreme situations, then you do the latter. Again, in this case, I note that there has been life-saving actions. If that feeling has arisen: it has never been the intention to inform the Chamber halfway. We have discussed repeatedly the golden hour, the presence of co-vac capacity, how we would organise it, the risk assessments and the level of threat. It's all aspects that we consider. I am therefore very committed to it and I am happy to inform the Chamber of three decimal places.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u209	The point is that, unfortunately, we have this debate to look back at what has not gone well. The original DOD report, which has now also become public, has a slightly different explanation of how it went from the OVV report. Let me just say that now. It is a little more positive about the way in which this role 2 has functioned. I'm looking at the information in the direction of the Chamber. As I said in my first term, the Minister said in the debate on 22 December 2014: that is all enough. By this she meant adequate medical support insofar as operations were to be carried out in the Kidal area. With the OVV report in hand today, I note that the Minister cannot keep that statement up. The Minister said at the beginning of the debate that she supported the conclusions of the OVV report. That doesn't say one-on-one with the phrase "all that's enough." I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u210	I did not intend to undermine the findings of the OVV this evening or tomorrow. I said I'd take over all the recommendations one-on-one. I have just explained how I see that in front of me, including the medical chain, the medical care and the medical drain. I have just indicated that I will implement them all, but there may be a difference of opinion as to how we judged Togole role 2 in the medical chain as a hospital for the situation in extremism. The O.V.V. has done a fantastic job. I just said that I am very grateful to the OVV. Defence only has one answer: learning from it, dealing with it and never letting it happen again. In the case of the medical drain, in the case of the life-saving operation, I repeat that it has been a life-saving operation. I also note that due to circumstances the OVV itself has not been in Kidal to assess Togolese hospital, so there may just have been differences. This does not affect the recommendations of the OVV, but I also attach great importance to this point, as I have just said, in order to outline and share the context with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u211	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u212	This is a very important part of the debate. I see that the Minister is straying from the conclusions, not the recommendations, of the OVV, in which they make statements on the quality of role 2. I know that if the Minister had rejected the role 2 between the lines, you could also see those doubts in the defence sector, and that is also apparent from the report of the Committee of Inquiry which had meant that no operations could be carried out in the vicinity of Kidal. That would have greatly affected the impact of the mission there. I would like to point out that the Minister here specifically states how she thinks she has informed the Chamber of the fact that there were doubts about the quality of role 2 and the addition of Defence that this role 2 would only be used in extremes. I looked into it and I can't find it anywhere. Maybe the Minister can help me make that clear. I think that is an essential point, precisely because, in the initial debate and also in the extension debate, the Chamber has called for attention to be paid to the quality of this medical care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u213	I also know very well that we have talked extensively about the operations, the golden hour and the presence of co-vacability. I should like to go back to the debates on this subject, too, and I will be happy to do so, especially when we talk to the Chamber about MINUSMA or, for example, in the run-up to the policy response, to see exactly what we have shared about the difference between operations and, for example, short presence in preparation for or in the event of an exercise. Because there's a difference between that, when it comes to risk assessment and what abilities you want to have in your vicinity. What I do know for sure is that I too was shocked, for example after receiving the draft report this summer, and thought: how can that be? We've done several assessments there. I just gave it to a military doctor and a medical planner. The OVV said, no, you need an experienced clinical doctor. Okay. We've had it reviewed again, and once again the hospital is released for use. That is also my reality at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u214	That is why the Minister did not inform the Chamber of any doubts about the role 2, because she herself was informed that it was okay. Is that the correct interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u215	If it is released for use, repeatedly, at that time within the Defense Organization there are no doubts about that hospital.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u216	Also on this point. On page 93 it is indicated that for the military operation in the vicinity of Kidal the risks are not high. That's one of the assumptions at the Department of Defense. The OVV makes it very clear that the board is not clear on the basis of which the assessment of a low risk was actually made, as the Secretary-General also indicates in his quarterly reports on this area and on this mission that the risks in this area are very high. Indeed, there have been 41 attacks in the period from September 2013 to September 2016, including 14 fatal attacks. So I would like to hear from you how you view this difference, this discrepancy between that assessment as a low risk area and the information that actually came to you from the UN.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u217	The threat level is not constant. It wants to switch, too. We have our own STUDY and frankly we feed the UN with information about that level of threat. That is now one of the roles that the Netherlands has.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u218	That actually makes this even more peculiar, because you feed the UN with information...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u219	Among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u220	...that it's a low-risk area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u221	Through the chairman, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u222	Oh, yeah. You feed the UN with information that it is actually a low-risk area. In the end, the UN makes the information that it is a high-risk area, and the report makes it quite clear in its assessment of Togolese role 2 in Mopti, that the risk of a moderate hospital is moderate in the sense of low-risk area, so it has to be weighed against the risk of trauma in a relatively safe area, which we have to observe afterwards: this is not a relatively safe area, it is an unsafe area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u223	I think I have just been clear, in response to Mr Knops, about the difference between operations and exercises, between risk assessment and threat level at a specific time. At that time, an assessment is being made. The fatal accident had nothing to do with the threat level. That's what needs to be said. We just had a very long discussion about what went wrong with the purchase, storage and use. I would like to point out once again that if we carry out operations there and there is a high level of threat, there will be medical capacity and the person or injured person will be able to be taken to Gao within the much discussed hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u224	In my view, what is happening now in the discussion we are having now is, through the President, of course, what is always going wrong with defence issues. Something is being found, in this case in the Minister's figure, shoots into the defense and says: everything is okay, things are going well; what are you talking about? What I am talking about, for example, is the fact that I have been sitting here for six months as a Member of Parliament and I have seen two reports by the OVV, reporting that three people have died unnecessarily and that one has been very badly injured. And that is what we are calling into question here tonight: that you have an organization where information is found that does not come up. As far as I am concerned, the ability to learn is really insufficient so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u225	I find it difficult, because I have just said that I continue to stress this evening that I am very grateful to the OVV for the report, the findings and the recommendations. I'll take those recommendations. But if a research report is published, it must be possible for the debate to be conducted and for insights to be included in that debate, which might perhaps give a certain picture. The OVV has really done a whole series of observations on Togolese role 2. I find it very difficult to get it sharp now, and all this is reflected in the policy response; we are going to look at this in detail in the way it has been assessed. It seems that it has been done on the basis of the video and that it mainly relates to the emergency services. In any case, the recording was not made, at least not as far as I am aware, by Dutch doctors who were on the spot. I also find it difficult because the patient has never given permission to do so. There's a lot of factors here that I have questions about and I really need more time for. I can only say that, following receipt of the draft report, we immediately sent an experienced clinical doctor to the area, again for an assessment, and again it was released. I must also be able to bring that in without it leading to indignation, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u226	With Mr Knops, I still cannot quite place the differences. I read the D.O.D.'s own investigation report. This is almost in black and white contrast to the OVV report. The OVV report really talks about very serious shortcomings of the Togolese role 2-hospital. There weren't enough blood bags. There could not be communication due to language problems; a Frenchman had to be involved. There was no surgery on the fatal organs. A Dutch doctor had to come in to tell us where to do the surgery. The anesthesia wasn't working properly. I'm not going to say in detail what happened, but this is just a list of five things that could have been crucial for someone's survival. What if there were three serious injuries, and you're dealing with these limitations? Would those three people have survived? So what's the term "in extremism" worth if there were already, with one severely injured, so many limitations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u227	In case of a mass casualty, the capacity in a mission area always falls short. Let me say that right. There's also a difference between surgery and exercise. That's what I've been trying to tell you. I have also tried very carefully to explain that there is a difference between how the OVV assessed Togolese role 2 and how it was assessed by the Defense Department, not on the basis of a video, but by experienced clinical doctors who have all been on the scene. Of course, on the basis of what it has observed before and on the basis of the report of the OVV, it can also be seen that, in the case of Togolese hospital, improvements are emerging, but that is not what this is about tonight. What matters is that the Togolese hospital was allowed in the chain for damage control surgery. That's also what the surgeon limited himself to before the victim could be transported again. For example, the surgeon has not performed unnecessary diagnostics or the many other shard injuries further explored. The OVV states that the Togolese surgeon............................................................................................................................................................................................ I have information here that the present Dutch doctor has stated that this is not the case. Only after the abdominal surgery would this wound be stitched. I'm kind of looking out for you to fall into a well-nuke game right now. I'm indicating that we've sent a clinical doctor to the area to re-evaluate it. I would very much like to say to you that, for me too, this is a crucial issue, namely that, in the debate with your Chamber on the possible extension of MINUSMA, but certainly in the policy response, we are going to go back to it extensively, because there is a number of questions that I cannot answer properly at this time on the basis of the information we have and the most recent assessment of last July.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u228	I note that the Minister has not answered many questions himself either. Yet I notice that our people are still there in Kidal. What should the next of kin or the home front feel now that the OVV report is on the street and they know the facts, which I have just listed? They think, "My son or my daughter is in Kidal; if more than one wounded falls there, will he or she return safely to Gao?" Sweden's gonna take care of it differently. They add to the role 1 capacity and then take the injured person to Gao with a helicopter as soon as possible, where he can go to an international hospital or a hospital that meets international standards. I am very concerned that the Minister is currently able to guarantee the safety and medical care of the people in that hospital, which she herself has a lot of questions about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u229	I don't have any questions about the assessments made by the Defense Department. These have been implemented since 2014 and each time improvements are detected or something is found to be modified, but ultimately the conclusion is that it is released for use. It's done by doctors. It's done by medical knowledge. I'm not a doctor. I really can't judge a role 2 like that. The Commander of the Armed Forces also operates on the advice he receives from the medical-military line. So do I. They're all people trained to do that. I have to trust that, and I want to trust that. The OVV raises something and says: pay attention, we believe that that, that and that. I also note that the OVV has not, at least not as far as I know, been present in the role 2 of the Togolese. They haven't been in the area. It's done on the basis of footage. I think we should therefore note that, following the findings of the OVV, I have a number of questions that are discussed and deported in the organisation, that we have acted directly when it comes to re-assessing, this time by an experienced clinical doctor, and that it has come out that it fits in the chain. That is what I am giving you in response to the report. I think that is also how we want to have this debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u230	The Minister and all of us here are responsible, when we send our boys and girls on mission, for that to happen safely and for them to have the care they need. Let me be clear: that is the political responsibility of this minister. In December 2014, she said to the Chamber on health care in Mali: "Of course, we have certain conditions that must be met, such as adequate medical support (...) That's all enough." When I take the report from the OVV, the OVV says: "The Council has also noticed that an already difficult assessment of a role-2 facility in itself" "the hospital has thus been "insufficiently structured and entrusted to defence personnel with limited knowledge and experience in traumatology." (...) The medical planning for military operations in the vicinity of Kidal has not been the guiding principle of medical care, but the continuation of military operations in that area." Has the Minister not simply misinformed the Chamber on this point? She has told the Chamber that everything is being complied with. The report shows us that this is certainly not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u231	I have just given a detailed explanation of what I have already reported to the Chamber. To my best knowledge, I fully informed the Chamber, perhaps it was too little specific and could have been given more details. That is something other than "informing wrongly" or "consciously incomplete information." I just gave a whole explanation of this, so it's gonna be a bit of a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u232	This is crucial. I understand that you do not have complete control over all processes and not all parts, but this is about the final responsibility and the framework conditions that need to be created to ensure that our people can do their job. And now it appears at a crucial point that you have promised the Chamber that this health care would meet the Dutch conditions and the report makes it very clear that it has been assessed both by non-experts and that it is totally inadequate because the mission had to continue! Surely the Minister has a political response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u233	I just gave a political response of about 15 minutes. For the record. I have just said it three times: after receiving the OVV concept report and criticizing the non-experienced doctor, a doctor is a doctor, with all due respect, rather than just a medical planner and a military doctor, we have sent an experienced clinical doctor to the area to have it re-assessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u234	The question lies ahead of us. It's a hell of a report. There has been a serious failure in the care for the security of deployed military personnel. My question to the Minister is: how did this happen? How?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u235	I'm just looking for what Mrs. Karabulut wants. Life-saving actions have been carried out. The wounded military has been taken back to Gao. It has been established by French and Dutch surgeons that the operation was well performed. We didn't need a reconstruction. So what's the "how" Mrs. Karabulut wants to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u236	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u237	The Minister has promised the Chamber that the conditions for the health care for the military will be met and therefore the Chamber agreed to the mission. That does not seem to be the case at all. And the minister asks me why I want an explanation? In September, the Minister took a decision to extend this mission, and she cannot even answer the question as to why and how this could have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u238	The OVV publishes a report. I am very grateful to the OVV for that. In my view, it is good practice that we should give an explanation of that report from the Defense Department. And that's what we're doing tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u239	I hear the Minister say that she embraces and accepts the conclusions of the report. And I hear the Minister say that from the moment she received the draft report, she has sought full openness. For me, this is not entirely in line with what we read back, with the image we get from the inspection reactions. In my first term, I called that image "detached." Following on from Mr Diks' question, that we do not get the idea that Defence wants to learn from these critical points, I would like to come back to those inspection reactions. I read several suggestions for euphemisms: 'light corrosion' rather than 'rust', 'technical aspects' rather than 'quality','shrapnel' rather than 'unscathed'. Can the Minister reconcile that with her remark "I embrace the conclusions and I give full openness"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u240	We were at the medical drain. I think we are talking about a final report and not about a draft report that has been responded to again. If you ask me if I should have responded a little less in detail from within the organisation, I very much agree with you. We are talking here about the final report, the conclusions that have been drawn and the recommendations that are being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u241	But also in these inspection reactions we are talking about the entire draft report, also about the medical disposal. Again, I do not get the impression that there is a desire to learn from that and to be open to criticism. Rather, I get the impression that very serious facts are being covered; this has already been mentioned by previous colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u242	We are now at the chapter "medical care." I just said that I certainly agree with the OVV. You must want to learn from every action, including life-saving actions. Then you should not want to settle for the statement: it has been successful; we can breathe relievedly and we go back to the order of the day. DOD wants to learn. I have just indicated that in future, in line with the recommendations of the OVV, we will explicitly initiate such a chain analysis ourselves and that we will not think too quickly: it has ended well; it is good. This is precisely in view of the objective of monitoring, controlling and, where possible, improving the medical process, including in international setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u243	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u244	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. If that is the intention, then I still don't understand why so many euphemisms are needed to deal with substantive points of criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u245	I have one more question about the medical facilities. In several minutes and discussions in 2014 and 2015, several colleagues asked about the adequate presence of medical facilities. At that time, the Minister indicated that all that was in order. I am curious whether the Minister at the time was assuming that it would be in order according to the Dutch quality standards. Or was the Minister already aware at that time that there would be UN quality requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u246	It is important for us that we organise care on the basis of our standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u247	May I then ask the Minister why the first inspection reaction states that there can be no proper inspections, since Defence is based on the UN quality requirements and not on the Dutch quality standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u248	Let me put it better. Firstly, "inspection" is a very sensitive word in the medical world, including in partner countries, whether or not you know them well. There is a certain sensitivity. One is not so much inspected as judged by friendly visits. You're feeding it more and more. The Dutch military standards are based on standards in civil health care. Please note that we all understand that the conditions in the mission area, the implementation of the operational task and the requirements imposed on staff in this context must be taken into account. That is the starting point. Our directive states that Defence is obliged to provide optimal care, both on a regular basis in the Netherlands and under operational conditions. I have also said that we are following the NATO procedure. We actually do that exactly as others do. I am now looking for what Mrs Belhaj wants to say, because I want to be a little careful that we are now going to have a debate on the inspection reactions to the draft report. The debate is about the final report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u249	I am also talking about the final report, of which Annex B is simply part. I understand what the Minister says: she says that we should be based on the Dutch quality standards. What I do not understand, however, is that this must have happened between now and three and six months. That's just a little weird. Because you can say that that was not done properly: mistake, who did not inspect properly, we should have met the Dutch requirements. That would have been a very neat reaction. But the reaction is not the one I just described, the reaction is: yes, that makes sense, because we do not meet the Dutch quality requirements at all. That is why I was so surprised at that initial response in Annex B. Does the Minister understand that I am a little surprised?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u250	I do not have the viewing response in front of me, but I certainly understand Mrs Belhaj in the way she is putting it now. But let me say again: there has been direct action on the draft report of the OVV. Once again experienced expertise has been sent to the area, in the form of a clinical doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u251	You must be thinking, Mr. Chairman, why is he standing there again...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u252	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u253	... but this is, of course, a very important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u254	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u255	I already said I appreciate the Minister being here to answer for it. I hear her say at the outset: I embrace the conclusions and recommendations of the OVV report. And then I see something happening in this debate where the Minister has a bit of a reflex that the chairman of the OVV also described yesterday as building a line of defense, saying that it is different from what the OVV wrote down. I'm having trouble with that. For the assessment of this debate, for the action of this minister, it is relevant to me to know where this minister stands. Does this Minister recognise the harsh conclusions and recommendations of the OVV report? Or should we listen to what the minister says, that it all worked around role 2? I can read them all, but I don't think that's what you're waiting for, Mr. President. All those quotes from the OVV regarding role 2 are simply very sharp and clear. Is the Minister now undermining this? Is the Minister gonna run away now? Or does the Minister acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u256	For this reason alone, at the start of this debate, I made it very clear that I am not going to undermine the findings of the OVV in any way and that I am taking over all the recommendations. I just indicated that I do the same with regard to medical care. But let us be clear: I am very grateful to the OVV, the OVV is important to all of us, but it must be possible, on the basis of a report, to hold the debate, to give the context and perhaps to indicate what conclusions will be drawn after repeated assessments in the military, medical line? Surely it must be possible for us to discuss this with each other? If I now have to question the assessment of the military clinical doctor again, while I also find that, as far as I know, the OVV has not been in Kidal and has not visited the hospital, I find that difficult. I want to share this with you openly. That is what we are going to talk about, including in the policy response. I've mentioned that repeatedly. But I think it's a tricky one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u257	What I find difficult is that on the one hand I hear the Minister say that she supports the conclusions and recommendations, while on the other hand she tells a story that is not a bit different, but quite different from what is in the OVV report. I cannot therefore make the assessment of how this Minister has operated and how she feels in this case in the context of the self-reflection and review of her own functioning which I welcome. That makes it very difficult. I would really like to ask the Minister the following. It is one of two: either she endorses the conclusions of the OVV report and comes up with recommendations to do this differently, or she does not agree with it, and then she can say so here, but at least we know what her attitude is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u258	I just made it very clear. In fact, there are two lines that we are talking about today, first of all the purchase, storage and use of ammunition, and second of all the medical care. I think that I have made it very clear, both in terms of procurement and storage and in terms of the use of ammunition, where there are times when risks have not been identified or have not been sufficiently weighed, which have led to the context in which that accident could have occurred. I have also just indicated that there are recommendations on medical care that I immediately pass through. Following receipt of the draft report, we immediately sent an experienced clinical doctor to the area. But a policy response takes a moment. Not for nothing stands for a certain period of time. We have this debate less than a week after the final report has been published. I would also like to give the floor to the Minister of Defence to answer a number of questions which I raise here openly in connection with the report by the OVV. And yes, you may come to a different conclusion or have a different opinion on certain aspects. Is that how you write off the O.V.V. report? Not at all, not at all. I continue to emphasise it: I have said that I am grateful to the OVV. But it must be possible to conduct the debate and to indicate openly where perhaps a difference of opinion has arisen, because one has been there and the other has not. That's where life-saving actions have been carried out. The wounded has moved on to Gao. That's where surgeons looked at him again. He was treated at the CMH. He's still rehabing. He's back in Holland. He's doing well under the circumstances. This is also thanks to the intervention of a Togolese doctor. I am not talking about the questions that the OVV raises from the table, which is not based on a paper reality. However, a good debate also contains a clear indication of the conclusions reached following repeated assessments and would like to return to them in a very detailed policy response that will be further developed at present and in the coming weeks. With regard to the purchase, storage and use of ammunition, it is quite clear what I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u259	Two soldiers were killed in Mali. One soldier has been seriously injured. The OVV literally says that the fact that this military has passed through is not so much due to those who have treated him, although very good things have also happened. It is described in detail in the OVV report that it did not go so well with the care, that he first ended up in the wrong hospital, then had to go to the other, that the surgeon did the wrong thing, that the Dutch doctor had to correct that and that he could only be transported afterwards. So it's far from good. Fortunately, it turned out relatively well with this soldier. It could have been much worse if it were three or four in such a situation. I find it difficult for the Minister to walk away from that in a debate when I ask her to do so. Both the report of the Commission of Research and the OVV report noted that there were doubts at the own Defence Organisation about role 2 in relation to golden hour, the possibilities to do operations in Kidal. This is about something. This is perhaps one of the most important aspects of the mission. And that is exactly why I want to make this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me room for this. I would like the Minister to be sharp in her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u260	I fully agree with Mr Knops. It is not for nothing that reviews have been carried out repeatedly since 2014. It is not for nothing that we have brought in helicopters for the benefit of the medevac, precisely to respect the golden hour to Gao. Again, I go to doctors and to an inspector who finds that the assessment is correct, that it may be concluded that role 2 lends itself to situations in extremes. This has been assessed again, even after the visit of the experienced clinical doctor. I'm not pulling up a fog with that. That is why we are standing here together, that is our parliamentary democracy, that is what has happened, what has been done, and why there may have been a difference of opinion if one has been there and has spoken to the Togolese doctor and the other has not. Perhaps, because all this will be further developed in the policy response. There are a number of things I also need to have better and sharper, because the conclusions are harsh. But if that means that the whole medical-military line can be written off, then we have a different debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u261	We've been debating each other for quite some time. Perhaps, before the Minister moves on to learning ability, I may reflect and ask the Minister if he understands that some Members of Parliament may have some irritation. If you have such a report, which contains harsh conclusions, it is understandable that the Minister would like to explain a number of things, but it may also happen as: yes, but it has happened in a certain context. I think that is what several spokesmen here say, namely that this is something that we do not want with each other. We really just want a minister to say absolutely: I totally agree with the OVV report, I should have done it differently, and in the future we should have done it that way and that way. I therefore hope that the Minister understands that this heading 'learning ability' can be part of the answers to the questions put by Members of Parliament. My question is whether the Minister understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u262	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u263	I would like to move on to what Mr Knops said, because I would like to be clear before we complete this block on medical care. There are a number of important conclusions in the report of the OVV. I note that the Minister is actually saying that I cannot or cannot fully endorse these conclusions, because they contradict the medical inspections I have had carried out. At the same time, the Minister says: I endorse all the recommendations of the report. The important recommendations of the report are set out in that list. I am looking in particular at Recommendation 4, which reads: improve the role 2 capacity you have. You're saying I'm gonna skip? Then it is equally clear to me that the Minister does not accept recommendation 4, which asks the Minister to improve role 2 capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u264	No, because I have just said that we are not always initiating these analyses for nothing, even in the case of life-saving actions. This is precisely what we do to improve care wherever possible, including in international setting. So that is also directly linked to the discussion we just had with each other. I have just said to Mr Knops that I am grateful to the OVV. More than that. I just made it very clear about that ammunition line that clearly things didn't go well. But I also think it is important to be able to bring into the debate the sounds of the people who are seriously doing their work in the medical-military line, who have been trained for that, who are doctors, who have been at the scene of the accident and who have been in the hospital. Then we will be able to draw a balanced conclusion with each other. This is without prejudice to the findings of the OVV. I am certainly not undermining the recommendations of the OVV. But we need to have this debate with each other and with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u265	I can see that we are repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u266	I note that the Minister is sending out two signals. She says: I have seen inspection reports twice, which do not encourage me to improve or modify the role 2 capacity. At the same time, she says: I endorse recommendation 4, which says that role 2 improvements should take place. Then I'm confused about what's happening now. Are those people sitting there right now, those soldiers, safe now? Now the Minister says, "I got it sorted out extra well, and there's nothing to improve?" Or does she say: I agree with the conclusion and recommendation 4?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u267	So was Mr Knops' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u268	In July last year another experienced clinical doctor was on site, who found that the hospital could be released for use. We have just said, following the recommendation of the OVV on medical plans and just a military doctor, that you should also involve an experienced clinical doctor. We did. Those assessments shall be repeated. If there is reason to do so, we will do our best to make adjustments there again. We're not gonna back down for that at all. But again, for me, the opinion delivered as Minister of Defense is also important. I can't just write off a medical-military line. Again, I understand what you're saying here. Not for nothing we had questions right after the publication and receipt of the OVV concept report. It wasn't for nothing that an assessment was going to take place there again. But let's face it, it deserves enough debate to put both sounds not so much against each other, but to connect them together and to ensure that we come to the best possible care for our soldiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u269	This really is a repetition of an earlier answer and of an earlier question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u270	I conclude that there are currently no changes and improvements to the role 2 hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u271	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u272	Back to the heart of this debate: the report of the OVV. The Minister formulates it in her own way and creates fog in my eyes, but I want to remove that fog. The minister says she is grateful to the OVV. So what is the Minister's conclusion when she reads this report? What conclusion does the Minister draw from this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u273	You're asking for my political responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u274	I have a political debate with the Minister, so I ask her what her conclusion is on the report of the OVV. The report concludes: "Defense during the mission in Mali was seriously inadequate in the care for the safety of Dutch soldiers deployed in the Netherlands. This involved both the safety of mortar grenades and good military health care. The Council states that the importance of ammunition safety and good medical facilities has become subordinate to the progress of the mission in Mali." This is the conclusion of the OVV. What is this minister's conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u275	Mr. Chairman. That's what I'm here to talk about. I would like to say a few words about the next of kin, because a lot has been said about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u276	The Minister will return to that. I see you at the interrupting microphone, Mrs Diks, but I would nevertheless like to give the floor to the Minister to answer the other questions you have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u277	I understand that very well, but I still have a question at this point. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to get the hell out of here. I would like to ask the Minister the following through you. If the picture of these recommendations is so clear to you, how can we spend half an hour talking about the precise implementation of these recommendations? You have said on several occasions that you do not want to undermine this, but then there will be a whole line of defence why things should be different in the future. My question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u278	Mrs. Diks, you really need to talk through the chairman. You must also speak clearly so that we can follow it all, because I do not think half of us have heard what you have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u279	Let me now turn to my question. The point was that the concept of the OVV report had been on the table with the minister for three months. If the images of the recommendations were so clear and sharp, how can it be that these recommendations have not yet been implemented, but that you are still maintaining the commitment of the Togolese role 2 hospital to this day?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u280	Finally, on this point. I regret that there is always talk of 'the line of defense'. I understand where it comes from and it is also exactly what has been discussed over the last few days, but a good debate also means that you can bring things in to get a good discussion. It is not suddenly a line of defense to fully undermine what the OVV concludes. I would really regret it if we were to deal with reports in this way, because then a cabinet would only have to take over a report, whether it be from Arcadis, the OVV or whatever. I think that our parliamentary democracy is a little more important. When it comes to what we've done: I think the most important thing we've done is to send that experienced medical-clinical doctor to the area, right after receiving the draft report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u281	I would like to make a comment, because the Minister has been here for almost two hours and she has actually spoken for 23 minutes. The rest consisted entirely of interruptions. I would therefore like to suggest that the Minister should now be given the opportunity to finish her story. Then I will give you the opportunity to ask any additional questions or to make any interruptions. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u282	Mr. Chairman. There's been a lot of talk about the next of kin. Let me be honest about this: I think that a politician fits in with restraint when it comes to the next of kin. Why do I say that? Because in the sad case of military casualties, Defense has extensive shelter and support available. Your Chamber is aware of this, because of damage and shame, because more soldiers have been killed in the past. That hurts the organization, but especially the next of kin. This support focuses on the wishes and concerns of the next of kin. There's intense contact between the families and the Defense Department. Defense is trying to assist the families as well as possible in the full awareness of how heavy the loss of a son, man or father is. And yes, that's why I say I'm a little reluctant, because I find it personally complicated to communicate through the camera or the newspaper, just because it's so personal. I can also tell you that not every family is necessarily waiting for a politician. The experience of the past has led to a sense of restraint from the defence side, because a family, the next of kin, may wish to see a uniform but above all not the political face of that organisation. Contacts are therefore mainly via the military line. There is a permanent point of contact for every family, for every question and for all requests or wishes, as long as the family needs it. Depending on the need, there is also frequent contact. After the fatal events I was present at the arrival of the deceased soldiers at Eindhoven. I spoke to the next of kin right then, and I expressed my condolences. I have also said that we will do everything we can to ensure full openness. And regularly I ask about how the families are doing and if there's anything I can do. Knowing that not every family is waiting for a politician, I have these examples from the past, I am going to take the advice I get on this. Also last week, prior to and immediately after publication of the report. Last Friday, the Commander of the Armed Forces and the Commander of the Land Force visited the next of kin. The Commander of the Armed Forces then asked on my behalf whether the families would appreciate it if I were to contact them very directly in this storm of emotions. The families have expressly indicated that they appreciate this. I called them the same night. In the short term, this week or next week, I will also go to Groningen and visit the families. I would like to say this because it goes without saying that a minister or politician is welcome to the next of kin, but it can also work like a red rag on a bull. I think it's good to keep that in mind once in a while. I'm so sorry. I regret the image that has arisen, really, precisely because I am very involved and concerned with all the families who have lost their father, son or husband in the service of Defense. Mr. Chairman. I come to the learning capacity of the Defense Department. Tonight, at least, not so much tonight, but it has often been discussed, you would almost get the impression that there is some sort of huge resistance in the defense to learn and that there is no knowingly learned either. That's kind of what I'm concerned about. This isn't a line of defense, but I'm a little concerned about it. Certainly, let me make that clear, too. I have noticed that the Defence Department tends to say, while it rains very hard, that the sun is shining, so to shoot a little into the defense first. But I also note, and I see and experience this on a daily basis, that, for example, operational evaluations of missions are carried out in training, training and exercises and that, for example, findings of the General Court on the financial management and management are translated into adjustments to the rules and practices. Is that gonna work tomorrow? No. It's often a long-term thing. Recommendations from OVV reports and internal investigations are also actively used to improve. Does this mean that everything is always flawless? No, of course not! The daily reality is quite uncomfortable. The OVV rightly stresses the importance of security awareness for the Defence Organisation. I will come back to a number of security-conscious measures later, but also on the basis of previous findings, including from the OVV, that security awareness is certainly prominent on the agenda for the Defence Department. I have always said, also in the Chamber, that security awareness needs to be strengthened, not just one-off but structural; it needs permanent attention. For it is the realization that human action at any time somewhere in the organization in conjunction with an act elsewhere unintended, unintentional or unseen leads to risks that have not been or have not been sufficiently recognized and thus weighed. Sustained focus is important when it comes to that security awareness. It calls for a permanent effort in leadership and in the operational workplace. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna get on with it. Well, 'fast': with this I do not do justice to Mrs Diks's justified question about the possibility that a whole list of measures taken immediately after the report was issued, taken in the meantime, taken in response to the draft report and taken again recently. It's gonna get your room, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Diks also asked for an overview, which I would add immediately. Of course, it's not just about this accident. It's also about security awareness. I have already indicated in the letter accompanying the OVV report last Thursday that several studies have been carried out on the functioning of the safety-critical barriers and that these studies have shown that renewed or, rather, structural, permanent attention to safety culture and security awareness is required. That is why an action plan for safety, health and the environment has also been drawn up and you have been informed about this in order to achieve a higher level of safety awareness in the organisation and to ensure that this very complex organisation, what it is in the end, with all those chains and all those intermediate links, gets even better in everyone's ears. If you don't weigh a risk enough somewhere at the beginning of that chain, that could unintentionally lead to a terrible or a great risk further down that chain. One of the measures is to stress the importance of security at all levels. As former Member of Parliament, Angelien Eijsink, I have her mentioned here tonight, here once in a while: it is chefsache. That is why the Commander of the Armed Forces and the Secretary-General have drawn up that policy statement. That's not an explanation you say: just hop in the drawer and let it go. It is a policy statement that has been drawn up with the support of all Defence components and is widely shared within the organisation, with a mandate to set out the principles and priorities as described. You know the examples: updating instructions and instructions, strengthening risk management, stepping up audits and inspections, increasing knowledge and improving specialist support. These are all sorts of peripheral measures. I can name them all here, but you've often had them in a letter. Mrs Diks is right to say that you should now send a complete overview, specifically focused on the accident, but also more broadly on safety awareness. I think that's good. That's what I'm gonna do. Then there's one more thing I haven't shared with the Chamber yet, but I'm thinking about it myself. It may be a little early, but we are not exactly the only military force struggling with such problems. Look at the countries around us. One of the measures adopted by the UK Ministry on the basis of a variety of recommendations is to improve the organisation's checks-and-balances. That's what the Chamber was talking about. That is easier said than done in an organization that is big and active all over the world. The supervision of security was, as with us, divided between different supervisors. The British have filled up all the security regulators, no, bundled up, you should hear me in one Defence Safety Authority, and positioned it independently in the organization. At the moment we are working internally on whether this works for Defence, for the Dutch armed forces. I would very much like to develop that example further and share it with the Chamber. Contact has been made with the British to look at the experience so far, because this Safety Authority in the United Kingdom was not actually formally established until 2015. I still didn't have enough information to take all that with me in my letter from Friday, but I thought it would be good to share it with you tonight anyway. If we have more information, you will of course be informed. Much has been said about candomism and politics. Over the last few days, I have heard a lot of people talk in different terms about the can-domeality of our armed forces. I also heard that it is assumed that the characteristic can-domeality of the armed forces is reflected, among other things, in the tendency to prioritize and take decisions on the basis of what one desires rather than to explicate and accept residual risks. This would have made the importance of safety and health subordinate to the progress of missions. I heard a couple of times tonight, too. It is also pointed out, and rightly so, that a cabinet decision on the deployment of the armed forces, including the debate with the Chamber, must be based on adequate information from the Defence Department. I don't think I'm going to tell you anything new when I say that the can-domeality of our military is indeed renowned. The same goes for their loyalty. Many organizations would wish themselves such employees. At the same time, I would like to emphasise here that security is a core concept for every Defence Officer. Everyone, wherever in the organization, knows what is required of our operational people. I would like to stress that it is also important to establish that defence is doing what it can within the possibilities at its disposal. This is also important with regard to the political debate on decision-making on missions, which I shall come up with in a moment. If there are operational constraints, this shall be taken into account. That is what military advice is based on. The military leadership is one hundred percent behind this. In other words, the military opinions take explicit account of the limitations that a unit has. We've talked to your room about that so many times. If necessary, the task or composition of a unit shall be adapted accordingly or the mission shall be completed differently at an early stage. For example, we have withdrawn our special forces and our helicopters, simply because it was no longer possible to continue the effort in Mali. Let me stress that this is also the last thing the military leadership accepts. Nor do they want military personnel to be unnecessarily exposed to risks. I really think it is important that tonight we do not throw the "can do" together with the security consciousness, if we are willing to define the security consciousness as human action at any time anywhere in the organisation in conjunction with an action elsewhere, creating unintentional, unintentional or unseen risks that have not been or have not been recognised and weighed up. This consideration must always be made within the 'can do'. So it's not the same. You need it both: security awareness and can do. You need "can do" to survive under primitive circumstances. Within this "can do," security awareness is just as relevant as peacekeeping in the Netherlands. I come to political decision-making on missions. I think I am quite sure that the decision-making process in our country on military deployment is really comprehensive and transparent. I am also almost sure that we would be able to cope with any comparison with other countries with glow. Here's what I'm gonna say. In my opinion, assumptions which call into question the good faith of the defence or political party in this case are not just about the cabinet, but also about your Chamber of Representatives. We have just talked about the decision-making on MINUSMA. The sending of military personnel is one of the toughest decisions we can make. I've said that many times, like you, Mr. Chairman. The exchange of views with your Chamber on broadcasting also follows the most thorough parliamentary procedures, namely Article 100 of the Constitution. No one deals with this lightly. We jointly assess the political context of the conflict and the nature of the conflict. We weigh the military capability that is needed, the mode of action and the military objectives. We're assessing the risks associated with the operation. We assess the risks associated with the opponent and the threat posed by them. We also look at the suitability of our own equipment and the medical care required. Prior to the broadcast, Dutch experts always go to the area to analyse the situation. During the broadcast the frames are constantly reviewed. If the basis of the original decision changes, a new decision by the Cabinet is necessary. You know that very well. We shall also discuss this with your Chamber. I told you before: if we see that we cannot sustain something for any reason, then we adjust the mission or retrieve human and material. I have just said: let us not throw together the necessary security awareness that is needed everywhere, in peacekeeping and in can-do situations. And of course, as I have just said, this is a permanent effort, not only in terms of leadership, but also in terms of operational work. Unfortunately, in relation to that fatal event on July 6, 2016, I am also saying that, in the past few days, there has been a relationship with a lack of financial resources for Defence. I find that difficult, because we go back to the year 2006, and then there was no policy letter 2011. Although there has been a certain amount of austerity for some time now, it is too easy to throw it at that hope. It's a fact that there's a lack of defense. I have often told you that the past few years have been far from simple and persistent deficits, but that should never be an excuse, as Mrs Belhaj also said, for risks to arise wherever in the chain leading to such fatal events. I have often told you that the effects of previous cuts in recent years have become fully felt in the operational workplace, and that hurt. At the same time, there was indeed a growing appeal to our armed forces. Mrs. Diks took my favorite one-liner out of the closet: it was definitely not a sinecure. No, it wasn't. As I have often said this evening, the armed forces operate within the possibilities they have. The importance of safety and health is not simply subordinated to the progress of military operations decided upon. I am concerned that this suggestion has been made. In the meantime, we can say that the financial tide for Defense has turned. That wasn't exactly self-evident, and indeed, the DOD isn't here yet. In recent years, with most parties in this Chamber, we have engaged in a military force that is not only militaryly relevant, but also future-proof, and not without reason, because we really live in an unsafe and uncertain world, a world in which internal and external security is now two sides of the same coin. And we're very vulnerable to that with our little country. One thing I know for sure: that over the next few years we will also have to make every effort to stay safe in a safe world. There can really be no question of leaning back, because this is a task arising from our most essential values and interests. That is a task that concerns all of us, including this Chamber. When we talk about deficits, they are well known, because I have shared them with you openly. But those deficits can never be an excuse for what took place on July 6, 2016. Defense won't let that be an excuse and won't let that talk itself out of it. I told you, DOD isn't here yet. There will be plenty of work to be done in the coming years. The good news is, I say right away, that the lines for the further development of the armed forces are ready. Your Chamber was informed of this by me this spring. We know what choices lie ahead, whether it is about further sorting out the basic readiness, the timely replacement and renewal of weapon systems or the improvement of operational combat support. Politics will play a crucial role in this. You will play a crucial role in this. Mr. Chairman. Finally, in the first term, I repeat that there are thousands of soldiers working daily on freedom, stability and security, close and far away. They often operate under difficult conditions and in risky situations, with so many types of weapons and also so many types of ammunition. And then everything must be aimed at guaranteeing the safety and health of our soldiers as well as possible. The risks must be clearly identified and weighed. The OVV rightly states that security culture and security awareness are important pillars for the Defence Organisation. Mr. Chairman. I note that safety risks have not been sufficiently identified or weighed at various times. I note that at different times human action and non-action together have formed the context for the tragic events in which two of our soldiers have died and a third of our military have been seriously injured. That is indigestible and I am politically responsible for this. I'll take that responsibility. I'll take it to the full. Mr. Chairman. Over the past few years, I've always acted in the best of conscience, served with heart, soul and salvation in the Defense Department, but it ends here today. I will cease as Secretary of Defense and I will therefore ask His Majesty the King to resign me with immediate effect. Mr. Chairman. The Commander of the Armed Forces has also decided to resign immediately. The transfer of commanders, which had already been decided, will therefore not take place. This is his decision and his decision alone. I respect that. General Middendorp will explain his decision to the department tonight. Mr. Chairman. With your permission, I would also like to thank General Middendorp for his unwavering commitment. The mutual trust was and is great. It was a privilege to be able to work with him and so on, I say through him, with all the employees of Defense, military and civilians. Each special people, unique people, people to whom I owe much thanks. Mr President, I would also like to thank you and your Chamber for their cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-tweedekamer-18.u283	I would like to thank the Minister very much for being here, for providing the Chamber with information, but also for being accountable here in the Chamber. I'd like to ask all those camera people and photographers to stay a little distance. Thank you very much and close the sitting.
