ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of Mr Van Raak amending the Constitution to include provisions relating to the corrective referendum, Section 34724. I would like to welcome Mr Ronald van Raak. He is supported in the defence of the initiative-law proposal in box K by some of the original authors: Mr Niesco Dubbelboer and Mr Boris van der Ham, familiar faces and former colleagues, nice to see you again in this house, and Mrs Nicole Temmink, party member of the SP. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in Box K. He will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the consideration of this bill, at second reading. The aim is to complete the entire plenary debate on this initiative proposal today. I would like to give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Özütok, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u4	I haven't said anything yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u5	Sometimes Mrs Leijten doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u6	Of course, I am always happy to see my colleagues, but I wonder why Mrs Özütok is not present in box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u7	That's a good question. That's because we're not the authors of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u8	She's not the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr Duyvendak, Mrs Halsema, Mrs Sap and Mrs Voortman received this bill through both Chambers. That's a huge achievement. I'm going to congratulate them on that later. But isn't Mrs Özütok ashamed that in the end she doesn't fulfil her constitutional duty on behalf of her predecessors and her party in trade union K to defend the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u10	Do you know that I find it very handsome that you have followed my party's proposals well? It is true that we have worked on this proposal for a very long time. You have already mentioned the names of very valuable colleagues, but in the meantime reality has changed. Society has changed and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has decided not only to go along with a new law that says yes or no but to look further at how we can strengthen democracy. I have a wonderful story with that. Why don't you sit down, because I think you'll find some elements that really appeal to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u11	You may make one comment. I propose that Mrs Özütok continue with her story afterwards. You can, of course, interrupt during the story or afterwards. Perhaps Mrs Özütok is indeed making comments about this in her story. So she needs a chance to do her story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u12	We are very curious to see how different it is to participate in the decision-making process. I am sure we will talk about this, but I would like to point out to the Green Left that it has a constitutional duty: if you get a constitutional change, you have to file it immediately after the elections. I would point out to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that we do not take ourselves seriously if we take that for a walk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u13	You've made your point. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok to continue her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. We are in the process of drafting a very important bill. That must therefore also be treated very carefully. We are talking today about the Corrections Act initiative referendum at second reading. It is true that this is a subject on which we have been positive. What were we trying to do? Like many people in the Netherlands, we feel that politics in The Hague is taking decisions without listening to their input and being ruled over the heads. They want them to be able to pull the emergency brake when the plans go someplace they really don't like. But people also want their country to be well governed, in the direction they want. They also want to influence that direction, but not in such a way that after the emergency brake, things stop permanently. That is why today's question is whether the corrective referendum is a good tool for meeting these two demands. Together with the PvdA and D66, my group defended this initiative legislative proposal at first reading in the Lower House and she defended it on behalf of the Lower House in the Upper House. The reality is, however, that we are standing here as a party that is no longer the author of this initiative proposal. GroenLinks considers participation and participation very important and so does participation within our own party. At GroenLinks, members have a very important voice. They discuss with each other and eventually adopt the electoral programme together. My group considers it important to properly express the feelings of its members in its political work. My group has decided to accept the ruling of its congress on this point. This means: participation and involvement by conducting a careful social debate on all kinds of issues. Democracy is a much wider process than simply saying yes or no to a proposal at the end. In such an inclusive process of civic participation, it is very important that citizens feel that they are in control of decision-making and that there is a broad dialogue on different interests. A referendum could be the end of such a process. That's in the law that's already in force. There is now a new legislative proposal that does not actually meet the citizens' wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u15	Cowardly. Why don't you hide behind your members and hide behind your congress? Don't take responsibility for yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u16	I'm right here!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u17	I quote: 'Whoever says that citizens should be satisfied with the possibility of voting once every four years on the representative of the people and party of his or her choice, does injustice as far as we are concerned, I repeat: injustice to the increasing empowerment of citizens, the importance to be attached to the involvement of citizens in the public cause and the widely shared desire to contribute to the proper functioning of the democratic rule of law'. Do you know who said this? Femke Halsema. Femke Halsema was right. And so Femke Halsema says about you that you are wronging the power of citizens. What do you think of Femke Halsema?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u18	I really appreciate Femke Halsema. I have her high, especially when it comes to democracy. She's said a lot more things than just this. You're quoting a piece now. Perhaps you can take an example of democracy yourself when it comes to how it should be in your own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u19	Well, our party also listens very carefully to its members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u20	I thought you didn't have any members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u21	Then you've been misinformed. That seems to be particularly true today: you have been very poorly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u22	You have one member, don't you? One man.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u23	We've got some more!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u24	"The referendum does not undermine the mandate of the Parliamentary Assembly, but rather gives it a greater material significance." That's another quote from Femke Halsema. This bill has been tabled by GroenLinks, among others. It's defended for Mrs. Sap. It was defended by Mrs. Halsema. It was defended by Mr. Duyvendak. Why? Because GroenLinks said: that is good for democracy; it ensures that people are empowered and it ensures that people are involved in the governance. And what does GroenLinks say now? GroenLinks says: all those people, all those Femke Halsemas, all those Mrs. Saps, all those Wijnand Duyvendaks, they've just been talking out of their necks. That's what you're saying today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u25	This is not about the corrective referendum. This is about democracy. I've just explained how we feel about that. That is entirely consistent with what our leaders said at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mrs van GroenLinks could have just read in. I am standing here with the Acts of 25 March 2010. It says: 'We, as Femke Halsema says, have surprised us that the fear of the erosion of representative democracy in a number of speakers is falling into great distrust of citizens and politicians'. That's what Femke Halsema says, on behalf of your party, on behalf of your party! Proposal for an own-initiative act. People are afraid of the citizens, which is why that turn has been made. You cannot say that the leaders of GroenLinks have always opposed this. No, the leaders of GroenLinks have always defended this. They have co-written this. Mrs Halsema has been involved in this. You can't deny that now, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Bosma, I just said that we have a referendum law. I have said that in the meantime time has not stood still. Locally, there are a lot of initiatives that already show that citizens really want a lot more than yes and no. You don't see that, but my party does. This means that we want to move forward with this development.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u28	I have a question. Does the speaker think that the referendum would have been more positive if the people had perhaps made the right choice and adopted the positions that GroenLinks would have liked?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u29	It has nothing to do with the outcome of a referendum. You are the result of a referendum. You're standing right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u30	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u31	In that sense, it has nothing to do with that. We want to encourage a development in which the participation, the co-responsibility of the citizen, is precisely inclusive, and not only at the end of the process is answered with a simple, blunt 'yes or no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u32	This story about inclusive is bullshit. It's bullshit. The idea that as a citizen in a G... I know a lot of what number is included, and so on, is a way of throwing sand in the eyes of the population. It doesn't make any sense. The reason people like David Van Reybrouck, who understand very little of political philosophy, are so raised on the shield, is because the elite use it to camouflage their contempt for the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u33	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u34	Don't you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u35	Absolutely not. Anything you say, all the signs, I'm throwing away. I'm just trying to shape that inclusiveness. You may have other ideas about that, but if you really take democracy seriously, as you say you are doing, I invite you to think with me about how we can really achieve that inclusiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u36	This has been considered for 3,000 years. The answer is: a referendum, direct democracy. In the end, you have to let the citizen decide, in the final analysis. Everything else is a sham. All the consultative bodies, all the places where a kind of deliberative event is created, it's all windowdressing, it's all appearance. This has been known for 3,000 years. I find it appalling that Mrs Özütok is now going to come up with a new idea or a new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u37	We are a country that is very good at consulting and reaching compromises with each other. We want the citizen to be able to be included in that process. So it is not a simple yes or no at the end, but rather involving citizens in the process. That's a challenge. I still dare you to join me. I have said that our congress has clearly indicated that we cannot at present support new instruments that answer complex issues with a simple yes or no. We want to take the citizens' wish to participate in the decision-making process. Does that mean that GroenLinks is no longer in favour of participation and participation? No, certainly not, in no way. GroenLinks attaches great importance to more control for citizens. We intend to develop proposals that do justice to the complexity of societal issues, with plenty of scope for sharing arguments, for consultation, sometimes more often needed, and for seeking solutions together, because a solution defined by one party or by one group is not the most ideal. With a simple yes or no line through a law, it doesn't fit us anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u38	That was really fast. It would no longer fit "us" to say "simple yes or no" to a law. Well, then Mrs Özütok drops such a tile wisdom in this room and runs away quickly. Why wouldn't that fit us anymore? As MPs, we vote on about 3,000 motions a year. Then our hands go up, or we don't. We shall then vote in favour or against. For us, it's either yes or no. Why wouldn't the citizen be able to vote yes or no to a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u39	The big difference is that there is much more information for you if there is a law before you say yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u40	Oh, so the burger's a little dumb? So he doesn't know enough? We know more?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u41	I will not be put in the mouth, and certainly not at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u43	The citizen is very well able to think and take that information, as well as to gain knowledge and experience about what is ahead. In the process you are in favour of, that citizen only has a voice at the end. You then made the assessment. We want to change that. We want to find ways in which citizens are already involved in the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yeah, I do. That is why Mrs Halsema, Mrs Sap, Mr Duyvendak, Mrs Azough and Mrs Voortman, all from GroenLinks, have all argued in favour of this legislative initiative. GroenLinks has fought for this initiative bill, which you are now fighting against. GroenLinks is so predictable and transparent. Why did they do that? To give people a say in their own lives, to vote yes or no on such a law. Isn't that what GroenLinks was right about back then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u45	Only a yes or no is a false contradiction. We have come to a different understanding. New insights may come into this house; that is wise. You should know that, shouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u46	Through the chairman, Ms Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u47	What's wrong with saying yes or no to a law? In life, you say yes or no all day long, right? If you take the train, order coffee or go on vacation, you say either one or the other. That's how simple life is. Surely it is very fundamental for citizens to say: do I want to get rid of law X or Y? Isn't that just part of a democracy? Yes or no is a very simple choice, and sometimes very often life is so simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u48	There's a dilemma about a pronunciation when it's a no. Let me give you an example. At the moment when a bill is said no by the citizens, it stops. Then the whole proposal goes into the wastebasket. But the reason why that bill came up is still not gone. Marcel van Dam said at the time that he would vote against the European Constitution because it did not go far enough. Others voted against because the proposal went far too far for them. It is certain that after that action had to be taken again. That is the dilemma ahead of us. That is why we do not just want a yes or no. We want to develop a process in which there are proposals that allow citizens to participate much earlier, to co-operate and to determine the direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u49	Finalizing, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u50	Members of parliament have to vote yes or no dozens of times a week. Our hand goes up or our hand doesn't go up. It's as simple as that. What is the reason is often unclear; people do not know that. That may be why a proposal does not go far enough or far too far, but we do not have that nuance. We MPs vote on at least 3,000 motions a year. When a cabinet sits for four years, it is often against the 10,000 motions in one period. Then we vote yes or no. What is good enough for us Members of Parliament is good enough for every citizen of the Netherlands: just for or against votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u51	I have 14 colleagues who are doing a very good job and who are looking into proposals. I trust my colleagues. When they are ready and we are discussing this in the group, I shall indeed vote yes or no. But that's a whole different process. You don't want to look at that trial. You are only talking about the very last moment in the journey. What we want is for citizens to be able to speak with us earlier, to co-operate and to gain knowledge about a proposal, more knowledge that is also available to experts, because that is often not easy to understand at the moment, so that they can then indicate the direction and then take a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u52	If you can think along about the direction, but you can't say yes or no to the direction that is being taken, isn't that a farce to talk along? Well, then that thinking along is just a farce, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u53	You're making a caricature of what I said. It is precisely the intention to include citizens in the final decision-making process. If that's what we're thinking, then we know exactly which way it's going. Then we know that it is not just a no but with different reasons; then you have much more clues which way it goes and then you can develop a policy in that way. Locally, this is already being done. Why couldn't you do that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u54	I'm not gonna be so quick to say something's a farce if I don't know it's a farce. I have tried so many times here in the Chamber to get all the noises from society for legislative proposals or policy proposals, with the train going through and indeed that participation and co-decision have turned out to be a farce. But what I am missing here is that GroenLinks says: we want to bring people along and make people think, we are not making any proposal here how that should look like then, I haven't heard them, while I have listened carefully, but we are closing down the option of finally saying yes or no to what it came to and giving it to the citizens. And I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u56	Because it was GroenLinks who, together with the PvdA and D66, just after that referendum on the European Constitution said: this has been so good, this debate in society...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u57	This is a long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u58	...has been so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u59	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u60	We want this to be given to citizens and it to be an extra democratic element in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mrs. Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u62	So what's changed now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u63	What has changed is a different social development, with new insights in which we have seen that citizens want more than just a yes or no answer at the end. If you want to come with me to develop that, I have said that I will come up with proposals later. But this isn't the way I want to go. I think I've made myself clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u64	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u65	You can also read it in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u66	Finally, Mrs Leijten, and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u67	Well, Mr President, it is not clear at all what GroenLinks wants. She's just closing the road to a corrective referendum. I will support all possible ways you have to influence policy through hearings, petitions and citizens' initiatives, because the more we can listen to people and their ideas, the better things get here. In the end, however, citizens must also have the opportunity, if they so wish, to organise a referendum to say yes or no to something. I do not understand why GroenLinks considered this to be such a success in the referendum on the European Constitution at the time, and she now says: society has changed. I think there's more need for decision-making now than then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u68	You've made your point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u69	The trade-off is another one. I think I've made myself clear. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u70	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP. I think you have already said everything in the case of interruption, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u71	The last elections are only six months behind us and yet it is already clear that many promises made before the elections are in the trash after the elections. Because you will only have voted for the CDA because you knew that there would be a reduction of one's own risk or D66 because then, for example, steps would be taken for a complete end of life. No one knows what an election programme of a political party is worth because of the simple fact that no party here in the near future and probably never will make 76 seats. Each party will negotiate and will try to get as much of its programme as possible. Everyone understands that you have to grow up to do that. However, there are small parties with points of principle which can have a strong influence on a government agreement and which can determine the course of a country. In the end, it is the majority that forms a coalition and resigns to a coalition agreement and which, in its task of controlling the government, occupies a position different from that of the opposition. This isn't anything weird. We have always done this, sometimes in the opposition, sometimes in the coalition, sometimes always in the coalition, sometimes always in the opposition. But here we see the lack of representative democracy. It is not a problem that we have many parties. It is not a problem that we have a lot of noises from society in our parliament. It is not a problem that coalitions are being closed. However, there is a problem when things are agreed there that are no longer recognizable for people. Then you can say that at the next elections it is up to the people to reject it or not, but then there are, of course, always a lot of considerations as to why you are voting for or against a party. The flaw of representative democracy is that there can be a majority for an important choice with social impact for which there is no support among the population. I am thinking, for example, of closing the nursing homes. When that decision was taken by the Spring Coalition or Kunduz coalition at the time, it was not on a discussion table anywhere in this Parliament or elsewhere. It came from a grid of civil servants cuts. You can either extramuralize or let people live at home longer, and close the nursing homes. That is de facto what is happening. This was agreed between a number of parties in a very short time. Then there were elections, and the parties that were going to rule then continued. Is that what the people were able to talk about? Has the population at all realised what was meant by extramuralising care for the elderly? No. Is it so undesirable that an initiative may arise from the people who say: whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I don't think we need to be afraid of that. The same applies to raising the retirement age. That was fast. There was quite a trade-out between the parties. If the people had wanted a correct referendum at the time, that would not have been wrong. The past Cabinets relied on tolerating agreements from parties that did not even increase but gave budget support so that savings could be made, but in the meantime, of course, a lot of policies were also made with social impact. I would not have minded if those million people who signed up to Van Rijn's cuts had had the right to correct them. It's about their society. We decide here in the Chamber about the daily lives of people, their work situation, their educational situation, their income situation and their dependency when it comes to care. Why, then, should we be afraid to submit decisions that we are taking here to them, if they can be corrected? The referendum on the European Constitution and the referendum on the European Union Association Treaty with Ukraine were consultative and successful. Whether you think positive or negative about the outcome, they gave a voice to citizens and that voice was a correction to us as a parliament. There were conversations at the kitchen table, there were debates on television. Exactly what this bill sees as an added value in our democracy happened. There was a public debate on matters of general interest. Is it logical that the critical voice of the population leads to less confidence in that instrument? No, of course not. And yet here I am today, instead of my colleague Van Raak, who is sitting there, in Box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u72	I have a question. I think you just set a good example of those nursing homes. Suppose people say no in a corrective referendum, what are you going to do? Do you know what to do? Because then there's nothing left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u73	Well, a lot of nursing homes were rushed out. Well, at least you would have stopped. Then there would have been a political debate with the public about how we would proceed. The doors didn't close overnight, I can tell you: that lasted two or three years. Now they're pretty much gone, although I think there are still a few nursing home beds. But it could have been fine. This is what I'm talking about. I was the health secretary myself at the time. We've been talking for three or four years about the question of how to cut back. There were austerity books from officials, from the Ministry of Finance, from the Ministry of VWS and from society, but this cut came as a bum-out-of-a-box: suddenly she was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u74	You are well aware of the theme of the nursing homes and continue on how you see that change, but only a "no" is very limited at that time. That is a very limited participation that you then give to the population, without giving an insight into which direction it should go and give room for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u75	Well, I don't think so. By the way, those who ask for a referendum, including how they formulate their question, will go along with the Election Council on the question that is being put to the citizen. If you were to ask the simple question "Are you in favour of the closure of nursing homes, yes or no?" I don't think it's complicated to form an opinion on that. There is absolutely room for political and public debate, and that debate has been held recently. After that beautiful period, people can have an opinion on that. Politics must then accept this and act accordingly. But should we be afraid of that? I don't think so. Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here today, not my colleague, because he's in "K." That's kind of crazy, because he wasn't the author of the bill. He was in favour of the bill. I find it a bit unfortunate that GroenLinks, the Labour Party and D66 have decided to withdraw their hands from this corrective referendum. The consultative referendum has entered into force. There was no need for a constitutional change. This proposal has been in parallel with the consultative referendum, but requires a constitutional change. Once you have made that effort, in order to respect the Constitution, you are obliged to submit and defend the bill after the elections. Because those three parties have forsaken that, we've got another defender in box K now. I'm sorry it's going to be like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u76	I have a question for Mrs Leijten. Does she know the concept of member democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u77	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u78	What about the operation of a convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u79	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u80	I will go into this in my own contribution, but let me say that there is a congress of the Labour Party, for example, which says at some point that it does not support the choice of a corrective referendum. What kind of MP would I be as a new Member of Parliament and then represent in the Chamber a position that goes against the position of my Members? You're gonna lose the credibility of politics, aren't you? Then I am a politician, a member of parliament of nothing, because I have to stick to the party line decided upon by the Members in a democratic way. At least that is the case in our party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u81	And that could have happened exactly if you had a defender of the Labour Party. As proposers, you are defending a law which has been passed by the States-General. And then your group colleague could have debated from the benches with other Members of Parliament whether this is still the case. And then you would have voted against it in the end. It's very sad when it's like this. I have sometimes defended cases against Members at a party congress. I know what member democracy is and how important it is. I said at your party congress: boys, we've got a bill passed; let's talk about this again. Anyway, that doesn't change the fact that you should have. That is a constitutional duty precisely by filing, retrieving and getting that bill passed. Or one of your partymates should have. And then you could have explained here: unfortunately, the Labour Party cannot support the law anymore. That would have been constitutionally pure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u82	This debate is rightly about the renewal of democracy, more participation and more control. But it's also about credibility. As far as my group is concerned, it is not credible if you no longer support a law, then defend it in box K. No one in the Netherlands understands that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u83	And with that, you take a walk with the Constitution. I had just arrived at member democracy. The irony of member democracy within the Labour and GroenLinks Party is that a small group of members of a party, although in a majority, decides that the entire population should not have a vote. And how ironic that is! How ironic is it that a small group that is a member of your party, where you have always fought for that corrective referendum, says that the rest of the population no longer has that instrument? I find that ironic. You have a connection to that, but I find it ironic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u84	That membership structure is therefore at odds with our parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u85	You know, Mr Bosma, I think that is very clear. I think it is very healthy for a party to have an internal debate. I think it is also very healthy for a party to have a vision of what we want with society and how we look at the participation of citizens. There may be certain proposals from a party or from a party member, which you can defend within your party with a supported ideology. In addition, you can say: fine, you do not want to do so, but as a party, we generally think that the people have that right. And at the moment when a party is involved in such a discussion, it might also say something about the internal ideological basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u86	With all due respect to Mrs Leijten, she actually gave the wrong answer to Mr Van Dijk. The electoral programme of the Labour Party states: 'correct referendum', 'citizens must have the last word'. Mr Van Dijk and his party have addressed the citizens. Those people voted for Mr Van Dijk and his colleagues in the firm conviction that he would defend the corrective referendum here. And he doesn't. So he's cheating on voters. He does that with an excuse...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u87	I am not going to sit in the middle of that, Mr Bosma! You should do that with Mr Van Dijk in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr Bosma, Mr Van Dijk has the floor. Then he'll be able to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u89	I thought Mrs. Leijten could give him a heads-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u90	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u91	No, but I'm not gonna sit in there either, because I don't know exactly what's in it and what's promised. I indicated the constitutional position of the proposers and the group. The Labour Party says that we are not going to defend a law that we no longer support. I say, if you have to defend the law constitutionally, you have to. You will have to ask Mr Van Dijk about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u92	Clear. And Mr Van Dijk, of course, feels addressed and wishes to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u93	Just for Mr Bosma: a member democracy in an association works as follows. You're presenting a concept. That is what Members are going to vote on. They will then adopt a final electoral programme. In our case, there is no corrective referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u94	I suggest you proceed, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u95	I was talking about the irony that the member democracy of these two parties has determined that there should be less democracy in our society. I regret that this legislative proposal is damaging and damaging, because the arguments put forward by the original proposers are still valid. I quote: 'They see the referendum as a necessary complement to the present representative system. A referendum can also ensure that voters are actively involved in the public cause and stimulate public debate on matters of general interest." And I've been there, in my hometown of Haarlem. There we had a referendum on parking policy last summer. The VVD group in Haarlem was the main engine behind this referendum. She had citizens behind the initiative and a referendum was enforced. Then the city council decided to hold the referendum just before the summer, which only took a very short campaign time. The VVD party in Haarlem was not of any use. She was furious, with interesting arguments. Why did the mayor and the coalition parties have such a fear of the referendum? Wasn't it supposed to be a success? Why so little confidence in their own parking plans? In other words, the Haarlem VVD believes that you should take sufficient time for a campaign, that you should provide information to citizens, and that drivers should not be afraid to review and submit their policies to the public. The VVD in Haarlem literally said to the other parties in the council: the Haarlem citizens want them to be listened to. Amen, I'd say. The VVD here in the Lower House is afraid that people would not vote for or against in a referendum for the right reason. That shows some arrogance, doesn't it? Because how can we be sure that the people who voted on 15 March voted on the VVD for the right reason? We can't test that either. I wouldn't be so afraid of it. I would say: follow your partymates in Haarlem and have faith in the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u96	I very much appreciate Mrs Leijten's desire to explain the position of the VVD in relation to the referendum. But I would like to ask Mrs Leijten whether she is also prepared to wait until I say something to explain what the VVD thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u97	Sure. I heard the position of the VVDs in Haarlem. I live in Haarlem myself. I even campaigned a little bit for that referendum that forced the VVD. So I thought I could say that for sure. Of course, I have also followed the legal procedures for this. That is precisely what the VVD indicates that she is afraid that people are not voting for the right reason. At least she wasn't in Haarlem. The CDA is afraid that by referenda cynicism is growing. However, as indicated earlier, the SP does not consider cynicism to be the result of the referendum itself. Cynism, for example, grows if you cannot rely on the people you have to represent, if you put a statement by the majority of the population next to you because you think you can get better from it yourself. I find it striking that local CDAs also have confidence in presenting certain policies to their citizens. For example, the CDA advocated a referendum in Tubbergen and Dalfsen. In Tubbergen, it would be about the reclassification, arguing that the population did not know about it when she was going to vote. In Dalfsen it was about the tree hood. Local politicians may have understood better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u98	I have a supplement for Mrs Leijten. In Amsterdam, the CDA also advocates the referendum. They want to hold a referendum there on the debt issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u99	Look, that's an addition. What D66 now wants has become unclear to me. Do we have to wait until we know what the opinion of D66 is? You could call that pragmatic. However, it does not seem to me to be the right view of a vision of democracy to make the construction of the referendum as an instrument, first consultative and then corrective, dependent on a government participation. The Labour Party indicates that it wants to experiment with new forms of democratic involvement. What that looks like, we're gonna ask. GroenLinks wants to experiment with deliberative democracy. Unfortunately, we have not heard many proposals. As far as the SP is concerned, the referendum shows precisely that it is a means of democratic engagement and that it works. At a time when politicians alone do not accept the result under the guise of 'we know what is good for you, you did not know how you voted' and the referendum is simply ignored, this is only detrimental to democracy and not the referendum itself. During the last referendum on the Ukraine Treaty, we saw that there was also a game: municipalities that opened fewer polling stations, election boards that were not placed. For example, cynicism is cultivated when the instrument that is there, which is enforced by people to have a say in decisions we have taken here, is not taken seriously. Mr. Chairman. Today, I would like to thank the authors and defenders of this bill. It was members Dubbelboer, present here, Kalma, Heijnen and Fokke on behalf of the Labour Party. It was members Duyvendak, Halsema, Sap and Voortman who passionately pleaded and fought for this bill on behalf of GroenLinks. We have also seen Members Van der Ham, here today, and Schouw van D66, their parliamentary work. They ensured that the law was passed in both chambers, but unfortunately their successors, their party members, left it to re-present the law as soon as possible after the elections, as required by the Constitution. The SP has not changed its position and supports the corrective referendum as a necessary complement to our democracy, even if we do not like the outcome of the referendum. I would like to thank Mr Dubbelboer for the word of the day: demophobia, representatives of the people who fear the opinion of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr. Chairman. Government of the people, by the people, for the people, government by the people and for the people. This is how Abraham Lincoln summarized American democracy in 1863. The Fat Van Dale states that democracy is a state in which the people themselves rule. Dutch democracy is very lacking. I quote: 'We therefore have a duty to try to improve the method by which the people can govern themselves more appropriately.' That's what Jan Terlouw said in 2001. The representative democracy is and remains an important instrument for this. People's representatives are not infallible. Parliament as a whole is not either. As far as PVV is concerned, the States-General therefore hold the primacy in our democracy, but I see no justification for a monopoly on power. The introduction of forms of direct democracy such as the correct binding referendum would therefore be an important complement and make the Netherlands more democratic. The referendum is not an attack on parliamentary democracy, but a modern addition to a 19th-century system, at a time of globalisation and the Internet in which the world is changing more and more rapidly. It would put an emergency brake on the people to correct or adjust the legislator in the meantime, if they disagreed in large numbers with the parliament which, for example, has been driven away from the electorate by compromises and coalitions. Being corrected is not fun, but sometimes it is useful and definitely necessary. Moreover, the possibility of holding a referendum means a stick behind the door, which, as it were, puts forward its shadow and forces us to listen even better to the people. I therefore believe that the best referendum is the referendum that has not been held, because it has made itself redundant. As far as PVV is concerned, sovereignty lies there: not with parliament, not with the king, not with the queen, not with God, but with the people. The referendum would make the Netherlands a little more of a electoral democracy and a little less of a party democracy. It would give people a little more self-government. A large majority of the population has been saying they need this for decades. It would spread power a little more. It could do something about the discontent about the relationship between politics and citizens. It would do a little more justice to the position of the emancipated citizens in our society and also promote the emancipation of increasingly skilled and better informed citizens. It could be a beneficial incentive to promote public interest and active citizenship. Unfortunately, some parties do not need this. They keep saying, "Let's just leave it, it's gonna be okay." They are not prepared to give up their power and give influence to the population. They cling to an ever smaller ice shot, while the need for change is growing. The PVV therefore continues to choose to rely on its own strength, on the power of people, and to have greater confidence in the judgment of the population. Thank you, Mr President. I hope that my text has landed well so far, including with colleagues. I have committed horrific plagiarism so far. Everything I read, I just copy-pastet from a text by Mr Pechtold from 2009. Mr Pechtold was also then the leader of D66, and at that time also the former Minister of Administrative Renewal. All I did was change the word "D66" to "PVV." Hail to Mr Van Raak to put this on the agenda. And welcome to Boris van der Ham and Niesco Dubbelboer. We are talking today about the referendum, an excellent tool in our democracy. But we are also talking about the credibility of politics. We are talking about the credibility of D66, GroenLinks and the Labour Party. They are parties who have worked fanatically for the referendum long, long and under different Cabinets in the past. They launched this law, which actually goes back decades. And today they're here to tear it down. They do so at a point that was a very fundamental point for these three parties. No wonder, because the establishment of our democracy is a fundamental point. You can expect parties to take a clear, unambiguous position on it; a position that you think deeply about because it is about how we rig our state system. It is about the foundations of our democracy. In fact, D66 was founded for direct democracy. An initiative committee D'66 was formed in mid 1966. And within this committee, serious thought was immediately given to the referendum. It was also put as a spearhead in the media. Co-founder Hans Gruijters was in favour of the referendum. We saw Hans van Mierlo walking along the canals in that video, talking about the crisis in our democracy. Van Mierlo wanted a referendum on the Betuweline and on the Maastricht Treaty. And he was rightly referred to by the authors, including D66'er Boris van der Ham, as "the father of the referendum." D66 calls him "the father of the referendum." In 1974 Hans Gruijters of D66 once again publicly argued in favour of the referendum. In 1975 D66 voted in favour of the corrective referendum, then a proposal from the PPR. PPR is now called GroenLinks. In 1979, Jan Terlouw advocated a referendum on nuclear energy. At the party congress of D66 in 1986 a motion is passed.. hip, hip, hooray! For the local and regional referendum. The central government is fanatical in favour of a nationwide referendum, expressed by Jacob Kohnstamm. D66 then comes up with the corrective referendum under the influence of Thom de Graaf and Boris Dittrich. And D66 has always been true to that tradition. Those who read the 2009 Acts when we spoke earlier about this initiative law see Alexander Pechtold as a young pit bull at the interrupting microphone against the few parties that are opposed to the referendum: the CDA and the VVD. Especially the CDA has to pay for it. It was driving everyone crazy, including the chairman. Mr President, you were not there at the time. Count you lucky. Anyone who was against the referendum was taken the measure. What happened to Hans van Mierlo's legacy? Well, it was thrown into the canal like a used tea bag. D66 now rapes the ideals of the founders of their own party in the bush. An auctioneer puts the crown jewels in the garbage. Ideals are nice, but plush is better. D66 has become a party of principleless populists. Mr. Pechtold, the former minister of administrative renewal, who was wearing such big pants in that debate, should have been here today to explain why that turn was needed, but he sent the youngest servant of D66. That's weird, and at the same time, it's kind of a mess. Where's Mr. Pechtold today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u102	First of all, I should like to thank Mr Bosma for calling me the youngest member of the group. But I am the second youngest Member, and I am the second youngest Member of this Chamber. I am glad that the PVV Group has studied the history of D66. I'll leave the word "rape" with the PVV group. But if Mr Bosma had studied the history of D66 so well, he could have read that in 1966 that referendum was not yet in the first plans, but was only mentioned as an interesting topic for further study. Mr Bosma could have also discovered that Mr Van Mierlo had voted against that motion for a referendum in 1975. Then Mr Bosma could also have read in the last election programme, which has been established by our Members, that D66 is still in favour of a remedially binding referendum, with the exception of referenda on a number of subjects, including international conventions. It would be a pleasure for you to take those aspects with you in such a history sketch of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u103	I have even taken up the 1966 Apple this morning, which talks about a serious devaluation of democracy. No, there is no mention of the referendum, but that, as I have just said, did play an extremely important role in D66. See Hans Gruijters, the real founder of D66, the owner of the Bamboo Bar on Lange Leidsedwarsstraat, where D66 started.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u104	A little detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u105	Yes, but it's the details that do it to him, Mr. Chairman. Because without Hans Gruijters, there would never have been a D66. Hans Gruijters has always fought hard for the referendum. I know that history well. Then Mr Jetten says: indeed, in 1975 Van Mierlo was the only one of his group to vote against the PPR proposal. Probably because it didn't go far enough. We don't know. Maybe he wanted a lot harder, maybe he wanted to say what the gentlemen said today. Because you can only vote yes or no, and then you don't know what the nuance is. So I guess Van Mierlo didn't go far enough. But to make a long story short: D66 stood 30, 40 years before the referendum. Then all those D66s have been sitting here: Pechtold defended it, Schouw defended it, Boris van der Ham defended it, and then we're at the finish line, then it goes through the Second Chamber and through the First Chamber, which is a big deal for a Constitutional review...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u106	Mr Jetten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u107	... and then D66 says:...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr. Bosma!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u109	...I don't think so. Let me finish my sentence, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u110	It's good to see the Apple. Two things about that. Firstly, I still share much of the analysis of the state of Dutch democracy. But you also read in the Apple that D66 said at the time: we are talking about more influence, more direct influence on power, preferably by choosing directors and another electoral system for this House of Representatives. The referendum, which we have always said in the years to come, can be a possible addition to parliamentary democracy. That is why Mr Van Mierlo voted against the motion at the time. He said that we have not yet sufficiently tackled the parliamentary system to introduce an emergency brake. That is also what our Members have said: a correct referendum could still be a good addition, but with the right rules of the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u111	Well, you should read your own Apple again, you know. "Our democratic system is failing in an essential way." That's a completely different summary from what you just gave. But let me show you the bright side. I am pleased that the young people of D66 have recently said: the Young Democrats see the referendum as an excellent way to give the people the opportunity to express their views on matters that affect them deeply. D66 is divided on this important point, D66 is divided on a point that deals with the foundations of one's own party. What a show it is that here Mr. Van Raak has to take the initiative bill from among others D66 from the dirt and polish the crown jewels of D66, because his own party has distanced itself from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u112	Doesn't D66 just make a complete fool of himself, I wonder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u113	You will have to ask Mr Jetten later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u114	No, it's just a canal belt club you can expect from, because they're principleless people. It is not a party with an ideology, but it is people who come together to network and become friends with D66 judges and consultants and advertising friends.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u115	Please continue, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u116	It's a lifestyle, it's not a political party. It has no ideology. That seems to be the case today, because the last piece of ideology they had, direct democracy, they threw into the dirt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u117	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u118	Mr. Chairman. Femke Halsema was also 100% right. I quote: 'Whoever says that citizens should be satisfied with the possibility of voting once every four years on the representative of the people and the party of their choice, is, as far as we are concerned, wronging the increasing power of the citizens. The referendum does not undermine the mandate of the parliament, but rather gives it greater material significance. Fear of the erosion of representative democracy is reflected in a great distrust of citizens and politicians." One of the initiators of this bill said in 2010. The PVV supports Femke Halsema 100%. Femke can rely on us, in good times and in bad times. Today, the credibility of Mrs Halsema's Femke Halsema is at stake. We defend Femke Halsema against GroenLinks. Let's go, Femke, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, As long as she doesn't become mayor. It is written: "Verily I say to you that on this same night before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times." The third denier is the Labour Party, because that club is also saying goodbye to its old ideals. In 1903, Troelstra, the then leader of the SDAP, proposed to abolish the First Chamber and introduce the referendum. What a visionary! That was a logical position for those who know social democratic history. Social democracy considered itself the people. The Social Democratic newspaper was called The People for a reason. And the social-democratic vocal choirs were called the Voice of the People for a reason. In Amsterdam, Kunst aan het Volk existed. And the SDAP held a popular competition. In the previous treatment of this law, the PvdA saw the referendum as a next step, after universal suffrage. I quote: 'We regard the corrective referendum as a means of contributing to the development of democratic citizenship. It enables citizens to participate in the democratic process. On the basis of our social democratic principles, we welcome this. We are also in favour of corrective referenda in municipalities and provinces." End of quote. Pierre Heijnen, where are you when we need you? The election programme of the Labour Party I brought it along for a while called A Connected Society. And how was the Labour Party going to connect society? We can see that on page 15, under the heading Renewed Democracy. There is a call for a corrective referendum, with the final word being given to the citizen. This was the election programme with which the Labour Party took up the peasantry and said to the Dutch people: vote for us, trust us, this is what we want, these are our ideals, we have set them here in our election programme. Then we are here and we can see that the ideals of the Labour Party, in this case the corrective referendum in which the citizen has the last word, i.e. a binding referendum, which thanks to the Labour Party and a whole series of spokesmen, including Mr Dubbelboer, is pleased that you have passed through the First Chamber and are thrown out of the crib by the Labour Party and parked in the berm by the Second Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u119	Again, we are talking about a draft election programme. Our members are all getting that draft election programme. Mr Bosma cannot be a member of the PVV, but he may be a member of the Labour Party. We then submitted it to our congress and there this section has been deleted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u120	And what the Labour Party is saying and what social democracy is saying is: the people must keep their mouths shut. In the past, social democracy said: we are the people. The voice of the people, that was the old social democracy. Now the Labour Party says: please shut up, pay your taxes and once every four years you can vote for the national elections and that's it. Pay your taxes and shut up. That's what we call electoral deception. Maybe that's driven by "yes," it becomes the word of the day "demophobia": copyright Dubbelboer. The fear of the citizen apparently reigns in The Hague. The people do not participate in the political, correct thinking world of May 1968. The people seem to think very differently than they always thought, so it has to be quiet. If only we'd listened to the people and not the elite. Why do we have mass immigration when the people, at least the majority of the people, do not want it? Why do we have mosques and burqas when the people, at least the majority of the people, do not want this? Why are we squandering our sovereignty towards Brussels when the people, at least the majority of the people, do not want that? Why do we have development aid when the people, at least the majority of the people, do not want it? Why are our rulers tearing down our precious Black Pete, while 80% of the people love Black Pete? That is because there are gross system errors in our political system. What the majority of the people want is often a minority position that is supported by the elites of the Netherlands, in the media, in the civil service and in universities. That's why things happen when the people don't want them to happen at all. The elite rule, the minority rule. And the elites of the Netherlands are as politically correct as hell. And the people are more right than the elite: the wisdom of crowds; vox populi, vox Dei. Let us take another look at this initiative proposal. Don't do this for me. Do it for Hans van Mierlo and Alexander Pechtold. Do it for the founders of D66. Do it for Boris van der Ham. Do it for the thought that citizens should be in charge of their own future. Do it so that the principleless populists of D66 don't win and do it for Femke Halsema. Let's protect her from GroenLinks. And to the Social Democrats, at last, do it for the memory of Troelstra. Listen to the voice of the people. Let the people speak. Don't be so afraid of the citizen, they're just people. Finally, two questions to Mr Van Raak's seconds, the two original authors present today. I ask Mr Van der Ham what the huge twist of his party explains. Why is Hans van Mierlo's memory being squandered? And what explains that the populist club now has the power at D66? I would like to ask Mr Dubbelboer, Mr Dubbelboer, who is launching the term 'demophobia' or fear of the citizen, whether he can explain this disease and explain why his party is suffering so chronically from it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Raak warmly. He shows perseverance, where most of them drop out. He is a supporter of direct democracy, where most people fail. The sad thing is that this bill seems to have no chance. This is striking because a recent poll confirms that the majority of voters are in favour of referendums. That alone proves how some people's representatives give away far from the people at home. The fight for a binding referendum seems to be lost in advance. I hope I am wrong, so this bill has a chance of success. Like the SP, the 50PLUS Group strongly supports a binding referendum. That's why I'm holding this plea that really comes from the bottom of my heart. It's like the opponents are insecure. Because they have no confidence that the majority of the Chambers are equal to a majority of the country. Mr Dubbelboer came up with the fantastic word for it that my predecessors have already mentioned and I would like to mention it, because at least we will get it in Van Dale: demophobia. Because I think they rightly expect no one to warm up for compromises forged in backrooms on and around the Binnenhof. Because, and this will appeal to the Democracy Forum, a binding referendum is a threat to those in power. Therefore, according to the opponents, it has to be off the table. 50PLUS looks at that completely different. The referendums on the European Constitution and Ukraine show how important it is to consult voters. They show how radically different the majority in the country thought about it. Last year the opponents got the scare of their lives: "no" had to be "yes." Goat paths were searched and an inlay sheet had to provide a solution. And what was so cowardly, why wasn't the Prime Minister just saying "we're putting the advice beside us"? If even a consultative referendum is threatening, then a binding referendum is, of course, a nightmare, as previous authors of the bill seem to think. I don't understand. Choosing members of the House of Representatives alone is, in our view, a shaky basis for a democracy that is being behaved, too shaky for a government in which the electorate recognizes itself, especially if it has to rely on a single majority vote. Everyone knows the doubt in the voting booth. After carefully wiggling and weighing, you choose the person who expresses your vision best, but a few weeks later, the same person uses your vision as change for a position that you disagree with. Last few days we saw a striking example of this. You can try again in four years. You think: voting for a person, isn't that only suitable for the song festival or for Heel Holland Bakt? Mr. Chairman. That's gotta be different, right? 50PLUS strongly supports the binding referendum. We want to go even further than the legislative proposal as it is now before us. The Swiss model is very appealing to us. There the voter goes to the ballot box at least four times a year on fixed dates to vote on subjects. Four times a year, instead of once every four years! Direct elections for all citizens. And it works. Because 80% of the Swiss have confidence in his government. Because 90% of the Swiss are proud of their own state establishment. That's why voting on subjects works well. It's a wonderful addition to voting on a person. The way in which we form a government in the Netherlands, with several parties, with compromise, with giving and taking water and with wine, is not the only way. Let's not make it sacred. Because it is precisely through coalitions and compromises that many voters lose faith in democracy. They see the person on whom they voted twisting themselves into impossible turns to be able to rule with. But for whom? Should we read in autobiographical books afterwards how things could have been better? And yet... A government in which the electorate recognizes itself seems so far away, but it can. 50PLUS expresses the hope that the confidence in democracy in the Netherlands will be as great as in Switzerland. You don't do that by sitting in a back room for months to get out, with a fist-thick embedded agreement that negotiated every word. That's what you do with binding referenda. Finally, I have a few questions for the people in trade union K. Can the referendum procedure not be speeded up? What are the authors' views on referenda on international conventions? Are they deliberately excluded from the exceptions? Finally, would it not be better to hold a referendum in advance rather than afterwards if it were ratified? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u123	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u125	I see Mrs Leijten at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u126	I have the same question to Mr Jetten as to Mrs Özütok just now. In this case, I would like to put it all the way because I have just found a very good explanation on the D66 website under the heading Referendum on how it works with a consultative referendum, a corrective referendum and a bill with majorities and two-thirds majority. It just says that D66 is in favour. I am therefore very surprised that you are not in trade-K with Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u127	I have not yet started my speech, but I would like to begin by thanking Mr Van Raak for the speedy answer to the questions put by the Committee on the Interior. I wish him good luck with the defense in a moment. The defence is done by another party and by a member of parliament other than the original initiators. Those initiators have chosen not to defend the second reading of this constitutional amendment in this Chamber because of the statements of their members' congress. However, we have all mentioned in the Committee on the Interior that it is important for us to have this debate here today. That is why I am standing here to explain the position of D66 in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u128	The D66 website says: "That's why D66 wants people to have the opportunity to organise themselves from the bottom of a referendum. D66 is therefore in favour of a binding corrective referendum." This is precisely about the bill that is being defended here and that has been tabled by your predecessors. Then why aren't you in "K" to defend it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u129	We took the initiative of this proposal with three original initiators, with three groups. First of all, they were the Labour Party and GroenLinks. D66 joined later. After the elections, we noticed that the groups were not prepared to defend it at second reading. That is not to say that the constitutional duty you have just mentioned has been trampled on by us. No, the Chamber has a duty to deal with a constitutional change at second reading as soon as possible after elections. That's what we're doing here today. My colleague Özütok has just defended the position of GroenLinks. If you give me a chance, I will now explain the position of D66 and we will hear from Mr Van Dijk how the PvdA Group is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u130	I still don't have an answer to my question. I get a bit of the idea that there's been good practice on possible difficult questions. The question is very simple: how can it be that your website says that you are in favour, and that you are also in favour of this bill, but that you, the D66 Group in this case, are not there with the other groups when it comes to the treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mrs. Leijten has studied our website well. I hope she also read our election programme. In it, the members of D66 have decided that we are in favour of correct binding referendums, but with certain rules of the game, including the non-referendum of international treaties. I will explain in more detail how we have arrived at that position in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u132	I suggest that Mr Jetten continue. You can ask another question later if you think that is necessary, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u133	It seems a little crazy to me that you have a position on the website and you can't explain that you can't defend that from professional K.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u134	In the meantime, Mr Van Dijk, you can see how things are going. I understand you're getting close too. Please continue, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u135	Actually, I'm gonna get started. Thanks again to Mr Van Raak for the speedy response to the written input of the Committee on the Interior. Again, good luck with the defense. Today, two of the original initiators are also present here. I would also like to welcome them. Mr. Chairman. This initiative law has a long history. Preparations started over ten years ago. Following the defeat of previous legislative proposals, members of various groups made a new attempt to reach the final introduction of the instrument referendum. In doing so, they opted for a two-stage strategy: first to gain experience in an advisory referendum and then to introduce a remedially binding referendum. Before I deal specifically with this initiative proposal, I'm going to dive a little further into history. Mr Bosma has just done the same. In 1966, the founders of D66 started a plan for a more vital democracy. In doing so, they used direct influence on power. First of all, with a directly elected Prime Minister, for a more decisive government. Secondly, with a different electoral system for this House of Representatives, in order to get more connection between the electorate and the Member of Parliament. In our party programmes of the following years, the referendum is mentioned for the first time as an option, albeit in cautious terms. I quote: 'The possibilities and desirability of a referendum in particular circumstances need to be examined'. In the following years, the referendum disappeared more into the background. In 1975 I have just explained this. Hans van Mierlo even voted against a motion which advocated the introduction of a referendum. It was only later, in the 1980s and 1990s, that our party looked more positively at the referendum. And at a number of times, which have already been mentioned, it was D66s who came up with proposals themselves. So as a party, we have always looked positively-critically at the instrument referendum. Our primary commitment was always, and still is: more direct influence on power; not afterwards, but just in advance. A referendum can only be used as a complement or an emergency brake to that strong parliamentary democracy. And if we do that, we have to do it carefully, because once referendums are an excuse for politicians not to do what they are meant to do, namely to weigh different interests against each other and make choices, then confidence in politics will only decrease. I now come to the initiative law itself. For the past three quarters of a year there has been a great deal of delay with regard to this law. In the run-up to the Lower House elections, the members of the Labour Party and GroenLinks have already voted against the entire instrument of corrective referendum. In doing so, this constitutional change not only lost the support of two original initiators, but thus......................................................................................................................................................................... The 100 seats required for a two-thirds majority have not been so far away. In adopting the electoral programme, the members of D66 also expressed their critical views on referenda, and specifically on referenda on international treaties. We are still in favour of a remedially binding referendum as an emergency brake, as a complement to parliamentary democracy, but only with the right frameworks. Clear rules on how to apply for a referendum and entry barriers are important to D66, but also that we use referenda on suitable topics. So not about the Constitution, the Royal House or the level of our taxes, nor about international treaties as far as our members are concerned. The present bill does not comply with the framework requested by the members of D66. According to the initiative law, international conventions are referendable. This law cannot be amended because it is a second reading. That is why the D66 Group will not be able to agree to this second reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u136	That's a hell of an attack on Mr. Pechtold. It is a brutal attack on everything Mr. Pechtold has said about this issue as Minister of Administrative Renewal, and later as the group leader of D66. I invite Mr Jetten to look again in the Acts at what Mr Pechtold has said about this. I copied three pages of pastet with what Mr. Pechtold said. Mr. Pechtold was cheering about this law, which has been co-submitted by Mr. Van der Ham of D66, who is now also sitting there. He was also defended by Mr. Pechtold, Mr. Schouw and several D66 members. How does Mr. Jetten come to carry out such an attack, and to say that Mr. Pechtold wasn't careful? No, Mr. Schouw wasn't careful. No, Mr. Van der Ham wasn't careful. No, four or five D66 fractions in a row weren't careful. What's wrong with the law that was co-created by D66? Why isn't he careful?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u137	I find it very interesting that Mr Bosma has been so interested in our party. Maybe I could invite him to our next member conference. He will see that we are a party with a member democracy. These members have elected Mr Pechtold as the list leader and have established the electoral programme with which Mr Pechtold and all the other candidates of D66 have entered the elections. That election programme, adopted by the members of D66, is quite clear about the referendum: we are in favour of a correct binding referendum, within the right rules of the game; we are not in favour of referenda on international treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u138	Article 50 of the Constitution states that members of the States General shall represent the entire Dutch people there, Mr Jetten. You are a representative of the people, Mr Jetten, and you have been elected as a member of a party. But you're a representative of the people. You are not the representative of a club of people from the canal belt called D66, you are a representative of the people and you must represent the people. People have heard D66 say for almost decades how important the referendum is, how important parliamentary democracy is, supplemented by a correct binding referendum. What are you saying to all those people who voted for you? I don't think those members are important at all. You're a representative of the people. What do you say to the people in the people, to those citizens who voted for you because they thought that D66 is at least one thing: the referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u139	Since 1966 D66 stands for more direct influence of all Dutch on power, with elected directors, another constituency and so on. All those voters who recently voted in the Lower House elections in D66 in March have all been able to take note of D66's electoral programme. Once again, we were quite clear: D66 is for a correct referendum, but within the right rules, and not for referendums on international treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u140	Well, then I'm going to quote my spiritual director, Mr Pechtold, but again, just one of his many interruptions. Too bad he's not here. "I'm fine with that, but can I ask a question first? You say that you do not need to know through a referendum what lives among the population. Do you see that after 160 years of democracy, in addition to women's right to vote and universal suffrage, there is now globalisation, the Internet, that people are interfering day by day and interested in what we are doing here, and that they want and are able to make a judgement about it?" Conclusion: correct binding referendum. Conclusion: D66'er Boris van der Ham's own-initiative proposal and many others.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u141	I think I have sufficiently explained how D66 and the members of D66 reached their point of view on referenda. In fact, Mr Bosma offers me a nice little bridge to the continuation of my speech, because I would like to dwell a little more on how D66 wants to further strengthen democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u142	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u143	We are still concerned about strengthening our democracy. We want more direct influence on power, for example with more elected directors. As I mentioned earlier, the referendum may complement this, but there are many more possibilities to strengthen the involvement and direct influence of all Dutch people. In doing so, we must be aware of what is happening around us. The support for referenda has become smaller and smaller. That is also what we are seeing here in this Parliament today. But the support for direct electing the prime minister or the mayor seems to be only increasing in recent years. In addition, there are many more possibilities. People want to actively think about their own living environment and the rules they have to deal with. People like to use their expertise or time when it suits them and to contribute something concrete. This is a social development that focuses much more on influence at the front, not on an extra emergency brake. The biggest opportunities for D66 are close to home. Municipalities, especially with the decentralisations in care and at work and with the Environment Act, are increasingly the first government. They are the first point of contact for important matters, such as your job, the care you get at home or your immediate living environment. You want to talk about that as a citizen of a city or village. Sometimes you also want to play a role in deciding whether to implement policies. A large number of municipalities have already taken inspiring steps in this area in recent years. This is often led by D66 aldermen or council members. I am thinking, among other things, of Wieke Paulusma, who works in Groningen for cooperative district councils, in which district residents and council members jointly decide on important decisions in the district. Neighborhoods really take the direction of a neighborhood, with influence on the budget. But I am also thinking of Rotterdam, where one has chosen to experiment with lottery tickets in area committees, to give other people a place at the table besides people who have been a member of a political party for years or who have been involved in such a district council for some time. This was a D66 proposal, supported by Leefbaar Rotterdam. The fact that our commitment to greater democracy and influence is focused on direct influence and local authorities is also reflected in the fact that I recently referred to the second reading of the Constitutional Amendment on the appointment of mayors and the King's Commissioner. Mayors are the sign of their congregation and have been given an increasingly important role in the past year. Think, for example, of tasks and powers in the field of security and public order. D66 considers it important that we strengthen the position of mayors and that we make the way we elect mayors more consistent with these times. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. In addition to these proposals, there is, of course, much more possible. I would like to work together with all the political groups on this parliamentary period to draw up proposals that strengthen our parliamentary system and local participation. In order to bring our democracy into line with the state of society, we must always take a critical look at that system. D66 continues to focus on greater involvement and direct influence. Possible solutions must never become an end in themselves. The question is: is an instrument useful and can it count on sufficient support? The corrective referendum can be such an instrument, but only within the right framework and rules of the game. The present initiative proposal is not enough for us and therefore D66 is voting against this initiative law corrective referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u144	Here we have not the night of Wiegel or the night of Van Thijn, but actually Jetten's judgment on an initiative law of his own party. It is the tragedy of D66 that this time and again wants to further that democracy and that it stranded in the Senate with one vote against, in the night of Wiegel in Kok II and in the night of Van Thijn in 2005. But now you're actually stabbing the bill yourself in the ribs. Is that what you're doing now because you know you traded something out on the negotiating table?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u145	This debate has nothing to do with the negotiations. This debate has to do with positions taken by all these parties here in this Chamber before the elections. I have just explained in detail how the members of D66 came to our point of view, and that is what counts in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u146	I'll tell you how I got there. The citizen should actually have an emergency brake and be allowed to talk and that should be close, but that should not be about international affairs. Now we have a consultative referendum. This can be about international treaties, as we have seen twice: in the European Constitution, which is an international treaty, and in the Treaty with Ukraine, which is an international treaty. So, in line with his electoral programme and the decision of the Members, D66 will say: then we can also sacrifice the consultative referendum. Then we have here a plea for the elected mayor and let's have exactly heard in the corridors that that has been a tradeout. Is it good for your party to have more direct democracy to do some sort of cow business, not when it comes to things that citizens can say yes or no to, but when it comes to choosing the mayor? Why does it have to be or-or can't it be en-and?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u147	Mrs Leijten does not know as well as I do what is in the coalition agreement. We are debating an initiative law here today in order to achieve a corrective referendum. I have explained that D66 is still in favour of a corrective referendum as a complement to a strong parliamentary democracy, but within the right rules. One of these rules is: no international treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u148	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u149	Then, of course, I am a good listener and I have heard that Mr Jetten not only pronounces his own bill to death and thus organises Jetten's day instead of Wiegel's night or Van Thijn's night, but at the same time uses his speaking time for the elected mayor. And that's where I read a lot. D66 has sacrificed the referendum, giving participation to the people if the government has taken a decision, for electing the mayor. Then we hope that there will not be another night in which it will be shot again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u150	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u151	What makes international treaties so different from other decisions that are voted on here in the House of Representatives that Mr Jetten believes they should be excluded from a referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u152	I have mentioned a number of examples which, as far as we are concerned, should be excluded from referenda. International conventions are indeed one of them. The reason is actually quite simple, namely that an international treaty is not something of the Netherlands itself, that it is not something that we only decide to do here in this Chamber. Such a treaty is concluded with several countries. We saw that at the Ukraine referendum. 28 countries plus Ukraine have been involved. Then you can ask for a ruling from the voter. D66 has participated fully in the campaign to achieve a good balance, but you can see that the interpretation of the results and the coming to follow-up is complicated, because you are dealing with such an international constellation. I honestly believe that the referendum as an instrument, as a complement to parliamentary democracy, deserves more than that. You have to bet it at times when you can really put a clear question to the electorate and that we as a parliament can really do something with that statement. This is not the case with international conventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u153	But the House of Representatives must ratify international treaties, must it not? That is also a binary choice to say yes or no, for example, against an association agreement with a country like Ukraine. Then what's the difference? Then why is Mr Jetten still in favour of ratifying international treaties at all? Would it not be logical, then, to stop ratifying international treaties at all, but simply to acknowledge that they have been negotiated in the corridors of international bureaucracy and that's it? Is that what he thinks? If not, does he want the House of Representatives to continue to ratify it? So what's the difference from a referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u154	International conventions are a good way to further strengthen international cooperation, and D66 is in favour of that. We in the Chamber can question the members of the cabinet and give orders when they negotiate the establishment of such an international treaty. We can ensure at the front that the cabinet comes to a good international treaty with a mandate from the Chamber. That's the difference. If in the meantime, after the conclusion of such a treaty, all kinds of countries have already ratified it, and at that time we are still putting that question in a referendum, you can no longer do justice to it. This is one of the subjects in which we, as parliamentary democracy, really have the primacy: we must ensure that, on the basis of our electoral programmes and the input we receive from society, we give the right assignment to the cabinet, so that it can come to good international agreements for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u155	So, if I understand correctly, is the difference that, in Mr Jetten's view, Members of Parliament can give advice to those who negotiate on behalf of the Dutch State? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u156	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u157	But isn't it true that this advice could or couldn't be properly followed and that the Chamber can still say yes or no in the last instance? In the end, then, is there no difference between a law and an international treaty? In both cases, the Court can give opinions and is in dialogue with those who develop that law or international treaty. Eventually, the Chamber can say yes or no. There is no fundamental difference between a treaty and a law, so the whole argument is that you could not submit international treaties to a referendum, based on air.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u158	I'm going to repeat myself now, but I'm going to say it again. The main difference is that a legal procedure takes place between the Cabinet and the Chamber and an international treaty is concluded between many countries. With the Ukraine Treaty there were almost 30, with other treaties there are sometimes even more. If it has already been ratified, after a referendum, a country has only limited room for manoeuvre to make adjustments. If you want to use the referendum in the right way, you focus on subjects where we as a Chamber can also do something with the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u159	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u160	What adjustments? It's a yes or a no. It is about accepting it or not, whether or not to ratify it. No one's talking about adjustments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u161	A debate never ends after the last vote, it always goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u162	What kind of answer is that? What kind of weird excuse is that? These international treaties are no longer international treaties at all because we have given away our sovereignty to unelected Eurocrats in Brussels. They are measures that directly affect the lives of many people. See the European Constitution at the time, which we voted against, but also the Ukraine Treaty and now the international agreements to bring 50,000 pseudo-refugees here, as Brussels wants. These are examples of how international treaties affect the lives of Dutch citizens, members of our people. They will be affected by this. Surely it is a democratic right for people to speak on this, to say: that international treaty has a direct impact on security in my neighborhood or on my income or whatever. Surely it is a fundamental democratic right to oppose it? Then we must be able to have a referendum to say yes to it or no to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u163	In his interruption, Mr Bosma cited the European Union as an example. I think this is a very good example, because thanks to the European Union we live here in peace and security and we have a great deal of prosperity. But I agree with him that Europe's democracy can be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u164	Man, man, man, man!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u165	That is why our electoral programmes, not only for the Lower House but also for the European elections, contain all kinds of proposals on how to strengthen that democracy in Europe. It would be nice if the PVV could support this, so that we can jointly ensure that the European Parliament has more powers to control the Commission and the Council and that the electorate has more direct influence on the directors in Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u166	How long have you been in this room? Three weeks or so. You talk like someone who's been here 80 years. Just answer my question! Don't bring up a lecture on this horrible EU and all this bullshit. Just answer my question! My question is: isn't it a fundamental right of people to make decisions about decisions that affect their daily lives? Whether it is an international treaty that affects people's daily lives or whatever, that is relevant to citizens, isn't it? Mr. Pechtold has argued that for years. And he was right, too. We have to be able to deal with that, and we have to be able to say yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u167	Mr Bosma spoke just now about the primacy of this Parliament and possible additions to a strong parliamentary system in the form of a referendum. Voters are allowed to express their views once every four years, and in the European case once every five years, on who they represent. I have said before: on a number of subjects, it would be good if they could then make a referendum at the end of the whole process. But that does not apply to all subjects. The most important thing is the strengthening of parliamentary democracy and more direct influence on who is in trade union K and who is in Europe on our behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u168	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u169	We've heard that six times. I'm really wasting my time. It's nice out again. Why don't I just walk down the street? Once again, the question is: international treaties have a direct effect on the citizens, because they are refugees, because things are happening around social agreements or whatever. Then it is simply a human right of citizens, then it is our natural right to give our opinion. And that must be either yes or no in a referendum. D66 has always fought for that. I stand here defending the crown jewels of D66. It shouldn't get much crazier! You know what, forget the answer. Let's have the next speaker, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u170	That is not yet Mr Van Dijk, but Mr Koopmans. But I see Mr Baudet standing. Mr Baudet, one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u171	One more question. Mr Jetten spoke about international treaties. He speaks of the European Parliament as a legitimate representation body. Anyway, we probably disagree on that. I think it's an illegal organ. International conventions okay, but European treaties. Wouldn't they be completely covered? Wouldn't it be exactly the same argument as that on which laws should also be subject to a referendum in the Dutch Parliament? Is Mr Jetten in favour of referenda on European decision-making, and therefore European treaties such as the Association Treaty with Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u172	The members of D66 have taken a very clear position. We are in favour of correct binding referendums, but we are not in favour of referenda on international treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u173	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u174	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is for the Dutch representation of Dutch democracy, and therefore against the referendum. The referendum does not do justice to our open democracy. In fact, we have been thinking of this for a very long time. And that is independent of the outcome of any referendum. The referendum may seem democratic, but it is not. It does not do justice to the electorate and it does not do justice to the problems we have to solve here. I will go into these points in more detail, as well as the technical problems with this legislative proposal. Firstly, a referendum does not do justice to the electorate. The voter chooses politicians, us here, to represent them. It does not suit us to return the problem to the electorate when things get complicated. That's avoiding our mission. It's our job to solve problems. That is what the voters expect of us, and that is what we must do. The Dutch want to take care of their lives, their families and their work. They don't want to have to vote every once in a while. This is also evident from the turnout at referenda, both here and abroad, even in the so-called example country of Switzerland. A low turnout undermines the value of the results. The turnout in the Lower House elections, on the other hand, is often high: the last time even 82%. Voters could choose from 28 parties and gave seats to 13 parties. We are unique as a country where voters can determine the composition of parliament in such detail. Let us take seriously the choice that the voter then makes. Secondly, a referendum does not do justice to the problems that we have to solve here. There's no simple for or against. Let me make three points. One: policy, of course, consists of more than a single legislative proposal. In politics, it is a question of balanced decision-making in a broader context and in the longer term. It is about weighing up information, visions and interests. It's about doing the best for the Netherlands. It misses the bigger picture to extract a single element. Two: if you can only vote yes or no, it is often not clear in a no vote what the alternative is. It is not just about whether one is for or against a law, but also what would replace it. The brexirefementum is, of course, a very clear example of this. A small majority of the British wanted to leave the EU. But what will replace it? Even the biggest campaigners don't know. A referendum thus gives a false choice. If you're voting against it, you should be able to know what you're getting. Three: a referendum often becomes a toy of motives and interests that have little or nothing to do with the subject. In this way, a referendum can become an improper means of protest. So it doesn't contribute to better decision-making at all, but it only confuses it. Finally, apart from the fact that the referendum does not do justice to the electorate and does not do justice to the problems we are trying to solve here, there are also important technical objections to the proposal that is currently before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u175	Mr Baudet wants to interrupt. Are you almost done, Mr. Koopmans? Were you finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u176	Well, I can go on for a while. But I would be happy to listen to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u177	Let's talk about the fallacy that just came out. I would like to explain this. It's said here: if you say no, it's meaningless, because you don't know what anyone wants. I still have to go through the first store where the owner, when I say I don't buy a product, says: yes, sorry, it doesn't work that way; then I need to know what you want. I can come up with a lot of examples in which a no must be really respected and one cannot come up with 'but then I want to know what you do want'. By what right does the VVD force voters here into the straitjacket of the rejected shopkeeper who says: listen, you can't get out of the store without buying anything? If a customer says no, if the population doesn't want something, then politics has to respect it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u178	It is clear that the electorate is entitled to as much participation as possible. That is why we also have Parliamentary elections. I think that if Mr Baudet is looking for an example, perhaps he should not look at a shop, but, for example, at the brexiventum, as I just did. The voter in Britain has therefore said no. But now we see the confusion that comes with that. It's just not clear what they'll get. That is why we are now engaged in very complicated negotiations. So that's unclear. That's confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u179	First of all, this is bullshit. It is crystal clear what a Brexit means, namely to leave the European Union. That's very good. The Netherlands must do so as soon as possible. But I have another example closer to home: the Ukraine referendum. I would like the VVD chamber member to respond to that. The Netherlands said no to that dramatic association agreement. Then it was said: yes, but what do people want? Quite simply: no treaty! We don't want that treaty. We would like to protect Ukraine from breaking up, which is now happening. We want to protect the Netherlands from all the dramatic consequences of the association agreement. We don't want a treaty. No is no!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u180	I am very grateful to Mr Baudet for mentioning the example of the Ukraine referendum once again. Preliminary draft, the VVD is against the referendum. We thought holding a referendum was a wrong choice, because it gives the wrong impressions. Mr Baudet says that the result is clear. There were many different motives why that small part voted against. There are all different reasons. Mr Baudet has his reasons; he has every respect for that. Other people had very different motives for voting against it. That's confusion, that's a bad thing. That is why the VVD is against the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u181	How does the VVD chamber member I'm facing now differ from that shopkeeper who has a client across the street who says, "I don't want to buy these clothes" and then replies, "Oh, you don't want to buy it, but why not?" One has a different opinion than another. Yeah, if we all have different opinions about why we don't want to buy this suit, then you can't buy this suit. That's absurd. It doesn't matter what the reason someone doesn't want something. Then you have to respect that. We as representatives of the people and we as a democracy in the Netherlands should put that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u182	Perhaps Mr Baudet is a bit distracted by my last name, which is indeed Koopmans, but it seems to me that the metaphor of the shop in this discussion, despite my family name, does not apply. Legislation, policy making, is much more than walking into and out of a store and deciding whether or not to buy something. Legislation is a very serious, long-term issue in which we have to look at all the interests involved. In our view, we must put the Dutch interest first. The question isn't whether you buy a suit, yes or no. The question is: how do you stand in the world, how do you protect the interests of the Dutch best? Mr Baudet was also elected to represent these interests. I wish Mr Baudet all the best, but we have the task of deliberating on this. So that's what we're doing now. It seems to me to be quite wrong to call that absurd. It is precisely this deliberation, this discussion. It's about democracy. Let's respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u183	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u184	This deliberation, this discussion is important. We are all doing our best to represent the people and their interests in the Netherlands as well as possible. In the end, however, it must be the people themselves who state whether or not that is the case. It is quite possible that this is also happening here all the time that there is a trade-out between parties and that precisely the things people have chosen for certain parties must perish. The people must then be able to say: we did not mean it, that is not the mandate we wanted to give; we are giving a corrective tap in the form of a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr Baudet was chosen for his opinions and for his contribution to the debate, as was I and all my colleagues here. That debate is very important. We can discuss the merits of all kinds of proposals here. We can negotiate that as well. The voting alone isn't everything. Legislation is much more than just yes and no. We need to know what the alternative is, what will replace it. We must put together the best for the Netherlands here. So it is not as simple as Mr Baudet is proposing it, and that is a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u186	When I listen to Mr Koopmans, I taste something that you often encounter with VVDs: we are the highly educated gentlemen, we have all studied, the legislative process is very complicated and people who have no sense of it have to keep away from it, the grey, the plebs; just let them vote once every four years. The VVD itself gave an answer to that mentality in its 2005 Liberal Manifesto: "Nevertheless, the absolute fear of cold water that some liberals suffer from is exaggerated. There are indeed times when the state can ask for a direct judgment from the electorate, for example when it comes to matters that affect political or constitutional order." The 2005 Liberal Manifesto is therefore in favour of the referendum. The VVD still trusted the citizens and the people in 2005 and said: just bring that to the people, because the people are intelligent. It's 16, 17 million people who can think. There must be power, there must be primacy, there must be sovereignty. How did the VVD become the party that Mr Koopmans now represents?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u187	I am pleased that Mr Bosma has also been diving into the history of the VVD. It is clear that we made that consideration at the time and that we still believe that it was right at the time to hold the referendum on the European Constitution. But Mr Bosma will also find in all the documents very clearly the position that the VVD is fundamentally opposed to the referendum. That is precisely because we consider the opinion of the citizens to be so important. It is precisely that people vote, and they have a very well-balanced judgment. On that basis, this Chamber shall be constituted. People trust us to do good work with that. We have to do that work. It is not all the same as Mr Bosma is proposing. What matters is that we do our job. We want to take the electorate seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u188	Yes, by allowing him to vote on laws that the citizen wants to vote on; very well. I'd like to quote my spiritual director, Mr. Pechtold. He also asked the VVD in 2009 in the debate: why was that turn made? He said: at first you had in that Liberal Manifest confident in the people and confident in the citizen, and now it is "yes, no, such a legislative process is very complicated, only smart people should interfere and the citizen should keep his mouth shut." So that is a bit of Mr Koopmans' mentality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u189	The VVD is very happy that the Netherlands has a system in which there is a lot of participation. We are very pleased that the Netherlands has a system of representative democracy, in which people can choose so many parties, including Mr Bosma's party. We also have a very high degree of democracy in that area. I would also like to hear Mr Bosma talk about this. It is very important that we deliberate, that we negotiate, that we consider, that we look beyond just 'yes' or 'no'. The Dutch know that, too. Let's not make any bad remarks about that. It is very important to listen to the voice of the electorate. And that's what we do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u190	Finally, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u191	Once again, I would like to ask Mr Pechtold's question from 2010. Why was that turn made at the VVD? Why first trust in the referendum, trust in the people, trust in the citizens, and now 180 in the other direction? Why is it now said that this referendum is not part of democracy? Where did you guys go wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u192	It is nice that Mr Bosma referred in an earlier instance to the Night of Wiegel. I think Wiegel's Night was before the Liberal Manifesto. That is where Mr Wiegel voted for the referendum. Mr Wiegel is a VVD, as you know. I therefore believe that we must put the facts of events in the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u193	I see you walking to the interrupting microphone again, Mr Baudet, but you've just been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u194	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u195	One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u196	Could it be that this twist Mr Bosma is talking about has to do with the discovery that the population wants something different from what the VVD wants in fundamental respects? For example, does the population want immigration to be reduced, does it want the European Union to be reduced and does it want taxes to really go down?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u197	As I said at the beginning of my speech, our position in the referendum is fundamental. So that is completely unrelated to the outcome of any referendum. I am pleased that Mr Baudet wants to work with the VVD against mass immigration and all other things. But what matters is: what is the role of the referendum? We are against it. We believe that the referendum ignores what the electorate wants, the problems that we have to solve here and our mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u198	When the previous cabinet, the Rutte II cabinet, took office, it was not yet clear that an association agreement would be concluded with Ukraine. That has not been submitted to the population. And the people demanded a consultative referendum. That wasn't the VVD's wish. But it's interesting to have a look at that rash. Because the VVD-Docker came up, enough to reach the electoral threshold. And the VVD bomber said, "We don't want that Association Treaty." In other words, the VVD Group got a slap on the wrist, precisely at a point where the election had not made it clear what the VVD was like. How would you have solved this? If something happens in the course of history that no one has presented to their electorate, with which you and I have not been given a representative mandate, then how are we to vote on this representative mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u199	There are two answers to this, which are the same. The first is that the VVD is against the referendum. The VVD was therefore also against the referendum on the Association Treaty with Ukraine. It's obvious. The second is the content: how can you vote on such a treaty? We have made our position on the Ukraine agreement very clear: we have voted in favour of it. The fact that there was another result in the referendum, with a very low turnout, is another matter. So we are still against the referendum and we were in favour of that treaty. So against the result of that consultative referendum with a very low turnout. Eventually, the answer is the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u200	It was a turnout that was sufficient to make the referendum valid. The fact that your Prime Minister, Prime Minister Rutte, threw the result of the referendum in the trash makes people cynical about a referendum. But at least you do not represent your constituents, who could correct your vote during the referendum. But what do you say to your partymates in Haarlem? Your partymates in Haarlem are in the opposition, who know how to run them well, and they don't like the parking policy of the current coalition at all. One of the reasons for this is that much more paid parking is introduced and there are higher parking rates, also because the Empire is making such huge savings on municipalities. And what did the VVD do? They forced a referendum to be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u201	Yes, you did. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u202	Do you think your partymates in Haarlem are making a wrong choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u203	The VVD is against the referendum. That is what we think, and this is my opinion here as a member of the House of Representatives. The VVD is also a very liberal party, where people have opinions and can express them, and where we can disagree. In Delft, in Hengelo and in Arnhem, the VVD clearly opposed any form of referendum. Another choice was made in Haarlem. Our position is very clear and is in our electoral programme, a position that we will always proclaim, whether it is the Ukraine referendum or any other referendum: we are against the referendum. Binding or consultative referendum: we believe that politicians are supposed to take seriously and carry out the mandate given to us by the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u204	I find it quite remarkable that exactly the arguments I so embraced are used by the Haarlem VVD, and that they are repeated here again. You say that we are liberal, but we do not agree with this. They just have faith in the people. Why should they not form an opinion on the parking policy in Haarlem in this case? Why should people not express an opinion on the European Constitution? Then why should they be told immediately that the light is going out or war is breaking out? If people have been able to express themselves, even if it was not your intention, can you throw that opinion in the trash by not doing anything with a referendum? Is that the right thing to do in a democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u205	I am glad to hear that Mrs Leijten is sympathetic to the VVD in Haarlem. That's very nice. Furthermore, I can only say what I have already said: we are against the referendum, but we are in favour of the Dutch representative democracy. We think it is very important that the debate is conducted on the basis of visions, interests and information, and that we take it seriously here in the Chamber. With a referendum you simplify things, you make it a yes-no discussion where the result is not clear, especially if it is a negative result. That is a pity for the Dutch representative democratic system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u206	Finalizing, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u207	I find it remarkable to hear from a party here that things are being simplified in an election campaign when it comes to a referendum, when they themselves use things like wars and statements like that, to convince people to vote for something. I find it quite remarkable that a party that says: okay, I am against, okay, I lost it, because a majority says that there will be a referendum and a majority has a different position than myself, believes that you can throw it in the trash. That has a bit to do with demophobic, a bit afraid of what the people think, but it has a lot to do with arrogance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u208	Go on, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had come to the end of my contribution. In addition to the fact that the referendum does not do justice to the electorate and to the problems we are trying to solve here, there are also important technical objections to the proposal. The proposal as it stands does not set the thresholds to be applied when holding a referendum. However, these rules are extremely important for the functioning of our state system. We therefore believe that the proposal should ensure this in the Constitution. The proposal also states that legislative proposals intended solely to implement conventions or decisions of international organisations are not referendable. But if a bill of 90% consists of implementing a treaty and only 10% has a different content, is it not referendable? That is probably not the intention, but that is what the proposal says. That is not true, and we are against it. I mention these important technical objections, but our main point is fundamental. The Netherlands is a unique, open, beautiful representative democracy. This is contrary to the correct referendum. Voters choose parliament to represent them. It is up to Members of Parliament to make, debate, negotiate and vote on behalf of the electorate. They do this in the light of the electoral programmes and the available information, against the background of the general Dutch interest. A referendum ignores that. It's like everything's simple and one-time. Others, as we have heard, may refer to Switzerland. But the Netherlands, not Switzerland, has the most open political system in the world and fortunately also with very mouthy people, with whom we of the VVD are in close and personal conversation every day. It is a country with people who vote massively when there are elections and with elections that show more and more new power relations and that place new parties over and over again. Let us continue to take this unique Dutch voice seriously here in the Chamber and continue to give strength. Let's not make things any simpler than they are. Let us not pretend that the electorate does not want us to do our job. Let us cherish our own unique Dutch representative democracy, because that is also the Netherlands we cherish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u210	Mr Koopmans says that the instrument of the referendum is contrary to parliamentary democracy, but many countries show that it is not. In the United States there are referenda on the assembly line. They are generally held at the same time as other elections, presidential elections or whatever. This weekend, in Berlin, we voted on the airports, along with the other elections that were held. A vote was taken in Switzerland this weekend on welfare benefits for pseudo-refugees. In my opinion, these are all democracies. The referendum is working fine in addition to that. How can Mr Koopmans say that the referendum is contrary to parliamentary democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u211	I thank Mr Bosma for his question, because I did not say that. I said that the referendum as it stands is contrary to the Dutch representative democracy. I am not therefore concerned with the parliamentary system in other countries. I am concerned about the unique Dutch system. I am sure Mr Bosma will agree with me if I want to distinguish between what is happening in other countries and what is happening in the Netherlands. We are attached to the special Dutch system. So we have to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u212	Of course, that referendum is contrary to that, because we do not have it now. It's as simple as that. That's why we have this law and we're talking about introducing it. But it's not like it bites one another, is it? These international examples I have just given, I mentioned Berlin, Switzerland and the United States of America, show that democracy is not affected at all, or that they are opposed to each other, such as water and fire. I mean, they get along just fine, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u213	I will not repeat my speech, but I have just given several reasons to make it clear that it does not fit the Dutch system. It is about taking the electorate's verdict seriously in our hugely open system. We do not restrict parties who come here. We have a very open, lively debate in the Netherlands. That's fantastic and we have to keep it that way. I think it is also important that we take the voter seriously. The voter wants us to work with that vote here. That is the uniqueness of the Dutch system and we must preserve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u214	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Baudet, I should like to suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u215	We shall continue the debate and I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u216	Thank you, Madam President. After spending six months here, I can say with conviction that the contempt for the electorate is total. Democracy is not working. The parties to the cartel keep the queues closed and play a transparent game aimed at continuing their own interests. Election promises, including the promise to listen to the referendum, are broken, often a few days after the election day. Take your own risk in care, restricting immigration, lower taxes, not a penny more to Greece. There's never gonna be any of it. In the month-long formation, all the spearheads on which the campaign has been conducted are crossed out against each other and there remains a weak brew that will allow career politicians to get another job in Europe, in health insurers or as mayors. And there is no effective control over these games, no effective counterweight, because the opposition here in the Chamber has the minority and the coalition parties obviously keep each other's hands above their heads. Even D66, the party of Pechtold, the party which was founded in 1966 to renew democracy, now opts for its own hunger for power. Binding referendums and popular initiatives are the only way to seriously reduce the influence of the party cartel and break the power of the party elites. Just because of the possibility of binding referendums, politicians will have to keep much more in touch with what lives among the population. So there is also a strong preventive effect. And today, today, the party cartel is going to turn its back on that referendum, because it is afraid of the electorate, because it wants to maintain its own dominant position and because it wants to continue its career. Imagine if the citizen really had something to say, imagine! Today I make a call to all people in the Netherlands. Remember this, never forget this. Dutch voters, stop voting against your own interests, against your own wishes. You really do not have to agree with us in every respect. You really do not have to vote for the Forum for Democracy. But at least never vote for the parties who are voting against the referendum today, who want to deprive you of your vote. So never vote for D66, VVD, CDA, PvdA and GroenLinks again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u217	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u218	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u219	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u220	Thank you, Madam President. I was just sorry that Mr Baudet wasn't just going to read out the booklet he was carrying. I thought we'd hear another exciting story. But that didn't work out. I think we should buy it ourselves, hence the metaphor of the shop of course he used in an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u221	He needed to think for a second...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u222	I'm not gonna miss this opportunity!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u223	No, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u224	Madam President, I would very much like to make available to Mr Van der Staaij, to all those present here in the Chamber and to all the empty seats as well, a free copy of the book published by the Forum for Democracy, entitled "Break the party cartel! The need for referenda." It describes all the arguments and the history of the parties who are now opposed to the referendum but were originally in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u225	See? I thought "there's still some work to be done" and I did. Thank you. It seems to me very worthwhile to take note of this and to continue the debate on it. Mr. Chairman. I was in preparation today thinking of the following. On the one hand, one could say that such a debate on the referendum has been extremely chewed out. For if there is one subject that has been discussed in this Chamber since the year of mourning, then it is the referendum. If there is one subject in which all the arguments for and all the arguments against have been put forward eloquently, then it is on the subject of referendum. Only the exciting thing is always the question of whether all parties still find the same thing as last time. There's been some change in that. What can also change is that parties are disappearing again and that new parties are coming to make their say, like the Forum for Democracy just now. That also makes the debate on this subject lively. It makes sure that it's never quite a repetition of what happened before. New elements are always emerging in the debate. Mr. Chairman. In terms of procedure, it is of course very special today that Mr Van Raak is in box K. I congratulate him on picking up that glove. He has also rightly argued that there is a legal obligation to bring a legislative proposal for the revision of the Constitution, which was passed at first reading, into procedure at second reading. That threatened to stagnate for a while. It is therefore a good thing that we can discuss this as soon as possible in this Chamber, as can be seen in the opinion of the Council of State on this bill. It's a special construction. It is probably unique in our parliamentary history that an initiator of a completely different party is now going to defend it at second reading. Mr. Chairman. That's what I wanted to say about what's new and different. If we look purely at the content, I must disappoint you if you still expect to hear a very exciting different view of the SGP than has been put forward in the past. We are very consistent in our pleas for representative democracy and in our objections to a referendum. Do you see it as a welcome addition to parliamentary democracy or representative democracy, or do you actually see it as an undermining of it? That has always been the very heart of the debate, and it still is. The SGP Group takes the final position. That has always been said in our electoral programmes, and that is also in line with what our constituents think about that point. Let me look at the objections raised earlier. One is the fact that it is seen as a simplification of reality. A complex question about, for example, a complicated law becomes a simple "yes or no"? Moved aside without any explanation. It is also very doubtful whether the results of referendums really represent a serious reflection of the views of the population. It is often the people who are most motivated to be against something that is also committed to achieving it. That can easily lead to a distortion. It is also often unclear what the argument for or against a particular law is of those who do participate in the referendum. It is also difficult to determine whether it really is a matter of substantive criticism of the relevant legislative proposal, because it is also often a question of a lack of trust in the government or in the government and so on. Mr. Chairman. All these arguments were reasons for us in the past not to support this bill and they still are. I must say that the experience of the previous consultative referendums also gives me the impression that the risk is indeed enormous that the negativity of parliamentary democracy is fed by it rather than that it helps to gain the confidence of the citizens. Look at this so-called European constitution. A negative position was expressed in the referendum on this subject. The new treaty did not contain any major changes, but was simply adopted by the Chamber. The consultation referendum on the Treaty with Ukraine shows the same picture. Eventually a formally valid "no" came out of that, but that eventually went on with some adjustments as well. Then I wonder: has that worked now, the referendum in response to the displeasure about politics or the functioning of representative democracy; has it not reinforced that mistrust before? Then I say, with these experiences still on the retina: if you want a referendum, opt for a binding referendum rather than a consultative meat-noch-fish referendum, because that will destroy you even more than you like, I fear. This also raises the question of how the proposer or initiator sees the relationship with the consultative referendum Act. In the past you saw them go together quite well, and also that there was often reference to the binding referendum. You saw that was the royal route, but that was actually a bit ahead of schedule. Is the whole of the consultative referendum not going to happen if this amendment to the Constitution in relation to the binding referendum would not be successful? I am curious to hear his opinion on this too. That was my first-term input, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u226	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I call Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u227	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Raak, the author, for submitting this bill. He has worked hard at procedural meetings to follow the procedure laid down in the Constitution in order to abide by it. That is indeed an important point. I would also like to welcome Mr Dubbelboer and Mr Van der Ham back to this house. I myself once had the opportunity to do a number of own-initiative laws. There's a lot of work to be done. Thank you for the much work you have done and for the many efforts you have made to do so. It will not come as a surprise to these two gentlemen that the CDA is not in favour of referenda. That is why the CDA voted against this bill at first reading. In our opinion, referenda do not fit into representative democracy. People's representatives have the task of carefully balancing interests on a legislative proposal. For this they ask input from stakeholders, from social groups, they visit people, they listen again. Afterwards there will be an extensive treatment in the Lower House and then in the Upper House, in which the different views on the bill will be discussed. Should a bill not work after that, and we regularly see that the effects of a bill in practice do not comply with what we were trying to achieve with each other, then it is again held accountable in the Second and First Chambers. As Mr van der Staaij said, the core of the parliamentary system is that power cannot be exercised without accountability. In referenda, far-reaching decisions can be taken without those who decide being able to account for them afterwards. The voter can't answer, the elected one can. The risk is also high, and I have heard this argument several times in this debate, namely that a yes-or-no-no or a pre-or counter-question simplifies the situation. It often does not do justice to the different parts of a legislative proposal or to the complexity of reality. There is also the question of what the voter specifically spoke against or in favour of; what exactly was one for or against? I'm coming to a closure. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the Vice-President of the Council of State: 'A system of direct democracy is no more democratic than a system of representative democracy. Direct democracy and representative democracy are fundamentally different systems, which you cannot easily mix with each other." The CDA shares this view and will therefore vote against the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u228	I'm glad the CDA has the same opinion as the Vice President of the Council of State. I'm gonna find out which party it belongs to. I'm not so state-owned as to know that one-two-three, but I'm gonna figure it out anyway. I'm really curious. I'm gonna google that. Anyway, the CDA colleague is talking about a "simplification" that is taking place in a referendum. Sometimes life is very simple. In Amsterdam, the CDA has a smart, intelligent group leader. That's Diederik Boomsma. He says: give us that referendum in Amsterdam. In this case, he would like to have a yes or no ruling on the debt instrument. It's very simple: it's short-term or no long-term. That's how binary life is sometimes, yes or no. "What's it gonna be boy, yes or no?" That question and that position of the CDA show that sometimes there is a simplification, that sometimes it is simply yes or no? Then citizens should be able to say no, right? CDA's right about that, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u229	First of all, I totally agree with Mr Bosma that Diederik Boomsma is a good politician, and also a nice guy, who does good work in Amsterdam. I do not think I need to google Mr Donner's membership. I think he used to be a CDA minister. Anyway, as Vice President of the Council of State, of course, you have a whole new position to take. Let me answer Mr Bosma's question. There have indeed been referenda in several municipalities. I heard Mrs Leijten speak enthusiastically about Tubbergen. CDAs were also involved, but we are talking about a legislative proposal to introduce a corrective referendum for the whole of the Netherlands. Well, that's a difference from municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u230	I'm sure you do, but in the municipality, the CDA says it understands such a simplification, because it's just against debt relief, not for it. In this way, the CDA in Amsterdam indicates that such simplification is the reality and that it is simply very legitimate to ask citizens: is it or is it not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u231	To correct, I do not think Diederik used the word'simplification' in Amsterdam. I just did. I mean that a bill can contain many different elements. You saw that in the last referendum we had on the Ukraine Treaty. It has already been exchanged in this debate. You don't know what a yes or a no means. For example, one has voted against the fact that we are working together in the European Union. The other voted against because he found the content of the treaty worthless. Another has voted yes, because he believes that this is an important step. But you won't find out. Those who vote yes or no do not indicate why they do so. Those arguments will be exchanged in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u232	We also don't know why people voted for the CDA. That may be because it was promised that there would be a flat tax, perhaps there would be a flat tax, or because it was promised that €100 would go off of its own risk. Well, that wasn't made for next year. For example, we can name a whole list of things with which the CDA has cheered up the farmer. We can talk about the human image of the CDA. We can all talk about that. The final point is, of course, that the support you have received is always used in coalition negotiations when you are at the table, hoping that you will get as much as possible. There may also be compositions with options that are not actually presented to the population. So much for representative democracy, because how representative is it? As representatives of the people, we have the task of convincing the electorate with the best mandate, namely the electoral programme of our Members. That's the thing. Then you're sitting here with your hands free in the opposition, or tied in the coalition. Mrs. Bruins Slot knows all about that. Then what is against giving people in the country the opportunity to imagine for themselves that they want to correct something? Because that's actually what it is. What exactly is against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u233	Clear. Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u234	I would like to repeat the arguments I have just mentioned. First of all, I think that Mrs Leijten does not do justice to the strength of representative democracy. Mrs Leijten also knows that you will be elected as a representative of the people and then have the task of listening to the people and talking to them about problems they see and the solutions they see for them. I also know Mrs Leijten as someone who goes to hospitals for that and rides on the ambulance. We both did that to hear exactly what's going on. But the solutions to these problems sometimes depend on the way you look at society. The SP and the CDA also differ on a regular basis. That's part of that representative democracy. This is the way to make the sounds of the people heard, and they are also involved in the debates you are having here. Mrs Leijten says that this is not enough. That's not what I'm looking at. I think that we should take this very seriously and that an instrument such as referenda does not add anything to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u235	The SP Group also takes it very seriously and listens. We conduct surveys, for example among police officers. In a debate last week, a fellow party member of Mrs Bruins Slot dismissed this as a mix of police officers, while it was 1,600 police officers who had seriously participated in a survey. Speaking of taking it seriously! What matters to me is this. Doing parliamentary work, listening, searching, surveys and having a different world view, all at your service. These are all things that I do not think have been dealt with in an election campaign for a long time, but that is another discussion. What I'm wondering is why it's so bad to give such an instrument to people. It should not be an instrument of politicians but of people, in the sense that they can say: whoa, wait a minute, here is a proposal now that I think I am harmed in my interests or that it does not go far enough and I think that we as a people should be able to express our opinion on this. What exactly is against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u236	First of all, Mrs Leijten made a harsh remark about a police debate, but since I did not follow that debate, I cannot check whether it is. In a representative democracy, the moment you make choices, you have to answer for them. I know that Mrs Leijten has had many debates with the US Secretary of State on the personal budget. I've done one or two more. That's where things go wrong. We've made choices. The Chamber has made choices. Perhaps these are not the choices that we ourselves had made, but in the end a Secretary of State or a Minister will answer for them. At the time you decide on this with a referendum, there is no such possibility, because the hundreds of thousands of voters who then vote in such a referendum cannot all indicate why they have done something. But if things don't go well afterwards, they won't be able to answer for it either. This was the second argument I used in my speech. The third argument is that an overly simple preliminary question is put, which also makes it difficult to read why people voted in favour or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u237	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u238	I do not think the latter is so relevant, just as I do not think it is relevant, although it is quite interesting to investigate why people voted for a particular party in elections, because there can be a lot behind it. What matters is whether you give people a cure. The personal budget is perhaps a very good example that Mrs Bruins Slot cites, because all the parties agreed to it, while ultimately it ended with a huge drama. Those who went over it, the municipalities, but also those who were budget holders, saw that coming. So we have not been able to carry out the task we had. What good would it have been if there had been a corrective tap, if there had been an emergency braking procedure with the possibility for citizens to say: ho, do not. Then the taste would have been: do not import. Then we would have had a debate about what we would have to do then, but at least we would all have been protected from the debacle we saw in the pgb right of drawing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u239	One more comment on that. Then Mrs Leijten really misses her own role. It has surfaced because the various MPs had conversations with people and at some point they heard that things were not going well. For example, we have many times brought the Secretary of State to the Chamber to debate with each other and to come up with new solutions. And that is the power of representative democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u240	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA. I can see Mrs Leijten at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u241	What a surprise, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u242	I am very pleased to see Mr Van Dijk standing there, but I wonder why he is not there and why he is not in trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u243	He has plenty of time to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u244	There has just been an interruption debate about the fact that the Labour Party, GroenLinks and D66 are not in box K. That was also the subject of the procedure meeting of the Committee on the Interior. The Labour Party does not think it is appropriate to go back to this in my speech in order, at the moment when the support for a corrective referendum is dropped within the party, to make a puppet stand, making it completely unclear to the voters, for the people of the Netherlands, what the Labour Party is doing there in box K, while the members voted against the corrective referendum. That is why I stand here, behind the chair, and, as I said at the beginning of my speech, Mr Van Raak, I am very grateful that he has picked up the glove and brought this bill into the Chamber so that we can have the debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u245	I have already said in my term how ironic it is that some members of a number of parties can apparently deny the entire population the right to a corrective referendum. I already told you. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u246	But we're having the debate now, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u247	But I also find it very strange that the Labour Party is holding on to this in principle. For over the past four years, I have regularly experienced that colleagues from other parties and myself made an exact copy of a conference motion that had been tabled and adopted, it was about a children's pardon or about other things that were then submitted here, but then the Labour Party said: the congress is not about our views. There was even someone who said: a PvdA congress doesn't buy planes. "Radio hunters," says Mr. Bosma; yes, that was him! Now saying 'our members have decided' sounds to me a bit like using member democracy if it's convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u248	Mrs Leijten's contribution is somewhat ironic to me, because it is a unique fact that a member of the SP Chamber states that he is not taking decisions from the members of the party. As far as I'm concerned, that's in the paper. I wanted to start my speech with it, but I can answer it now. As the Labour Party, probably just as the SP does, we have created a draft electoral programme, which was part of the corrective referendum, because we are one of the initiators. We presented this to our members, democratically, in January. One man, one vote. The SP could learn something from that. Not only the people who were present on the congress day were allowed to vote, no, the Labour Party also leaves all members at home behind their computer. A majority of Members said on the election programme during the congress day: we do not support the corrective referendum. Then there will be a new group, with an election programme. As a group, we have said that we must respect this and we are taking this electoral programme, which you might well read, because it is a beautiful programme that is about, with all its parts, and that is what we are going to do in the years to come. And so it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u249	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u250	I must say, then, that it is a great pity that there has apparently been ideological erosion of democracy within the Socialist Party of Labour, or that there has been insufficient convincingness on the part of those who defended it internally. Because, yes, I know that member democracy very well; we do. I can tell you that there are often fierce discussions in many areas, but that it is certainly a question of defending something. I wasn't there, but I think it's a shame to see this end, after two parties, GroenLinks and the Labour Party, have fought for this, with headsmen and headsmen, under Purple already and now from the Chamber. It is ironic that a small group is a small group, because there are far fewer people members of the Labour Party than you can expect from the composition of the population in the Netherlands, and it is now decided that the rest of the population in the Netherlands will not get a vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u251	I am not going to let you talk me into this, because Mrs Leijten is insulting some passers-by members of the Labour Party. We have a democratic party, which decides on a programme for which we, as Members of Parliament, as representatives of the people, will then be campaigning and with which we will eventually get a vote, which will enable us to do our job here in the Chamber. That happened in January, and that is what we are doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u252	I refer to Article 50 of the Constitution: 'The States-General represent the entire Dutch people'. Mr Van Dijk is a representative of the people and he was elected without burden. That used to be without backspoke. He was chosen without burden. I am not curious about a copier of what all those miserable members of the Labour Party have been bouncing in their backrooms. I don't care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u253	Mr President, I am not going to let you talk me into that. No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u254	Okay. But I look forward to hearing the opinion of the representative of the people. Mr Van Dijk is a representative of the people. No trouble! We can assume that Mr Van Dijk himself also has an opinion. Leave those congressional statements and just tell your own opinion! You're someone yourself! Come on, you're an individual!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u255	But this is also very ironic, that the PVV without members, without internal democracy...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u256	Hohoho.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u257	...the Labour Party is going to blame it for having and taking a stand. And yes, I am a representative of the people and I have campaigned convincingly with the party program in hand. That has now led to nine seats, next time there will be more. And that, as far as I am concerned and as far as the group is concerned, is the course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u258	So you have no opinion at all. You're just a photocopier. So first you had the opinion "hip hip hooray for the binding corrective referendum!" That was this initiative legislative proposal. Then came the draft election programme. That was your opinion at the time, namely the corrective referendum in which the citizen has the last word. Then Congress said, "No, we want that different." Then there came out some sort of semi-soft CDA formulation. Neither meat nor fish. And then that became your opinion. So you have had three different opinions within two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u259	It will be customary for Mr Bosma to make proposals in the Labour Party, to have a debate on this, to defend it, to have the last word in the end and to say to each other: this is the programme for the coming years, we stand for this and we are going for this. And that's what we're saying as a group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u260	Finally, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u261	So Congress decides what your opinion is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u262	I would like to invite Mr Bosma to visit a democratic association. Then you can see what enriching effects that has when it comes to positions of opinion, when it comes to all kinds of opinions and opinions that live widely in society. They come together with the Labour Party and we will decide together what we stand for in the coming years. In doing so, the support for the corrective referendum has dropped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u263	Will you accept the invitation, Mr. Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u264	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u265	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u266	But I would like to know something about Mr Van Dijk. So the Congress decides your opinion? That's just what we're saying here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u267	I propose that Mr Van Dijk continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u268	Yeah, I suggest we move on. Once again, I do not think Mr Bosma understands how it works in a democratic party, in which you work with Members and in which you make all kinds of proposals and conduct the debate well. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, I'm moving on. I would also like to thank Mr Van der Ham and Mr Dubbelboer. They're a bit the early adopters... that's bad Dutch. They're the first initiators. This includes Mr Dubbelboer from the Labour Party. It has already been recalled that a lot of good work has been done by these three initiators and by their predecessors. It has just been recalled that there were two proposals: the consultative referendum and, as a follow-up, the correct binding referendum. The Labour Party welcomes the consultative referendum. This has been converted into a law and any Dutchman can now do so. We have had the Ukraine referendum and, if we succeed with the proposers, we may soon also have a referendum on the drag law. We'll have to wait and see, but it's a great thing that we have that. As has already been discussed here in interruptions, we as the Labour Party have then said: we are submitting the corrective referendum to Members to determine our programme for the coming years. In doing so, the corrective referendum was killed. That's democracy, too. That is our member democracy. Is it then the end of the discussion on democratic renewal? No, it's not. We have the consultative referendum. We're going to evaluate that in 2018. Maybe we should change that. There has already been discussion of possible new proposals for democratic renewal. We in the Labour Party are happy to participate in this, because when it comes to participation and control of people in the Netherlands, that is a great asset for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u269	There's a question that comes to mind. I find it very interesting how Mr Van Dijk comes to his opinion. But at that Congress of the Labour Party the referendum was discussed. First of all, the hard text, a bit à la this initiative legislative proposal: a correct referendum, and then binding. Then that was changed into that semi-soft text. What did Mr Van Dijk vote then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u270	That's a good question. Mr Van Dijk, like the Labour Party's opinion, voted in favour of the corrective referendum. And it didn't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u271	Wait a minute. I don't quite understand. The draft electoral programme, which I have here, says that they are saying yes to a binding corrective referendum. Did Mr Van Dijk vote in favour or against?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u272	As I said, as a member of the Labour Party, I voted in favour of the corrective referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u273	For changing this text?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u274	No. I'm glad you're so interested in member democracy in the Labour Party. As Members, we can all vote on the draft electoral programme. The Labour Party has made a proposal, partly on my behalf. In the end, no majority among the members was found for that. Thus, the corrective referendum has been withdrawn from the Labour Party's programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u275	Mr. Bosma, where are you going with this? Finally. I see you have no further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk. Oh, Mrs. Leijten has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u276	The Labour Party in the past cabinet, together with the VVD and the supporting parties in terms of budget support, has been responsible for the fact that we have become a participatory society. It's about standing up for yourself and the right of the strongest. Now we are increasingly seeing that the appeal to participate and to think along the lines of this participatory society is heard by the way in which I say that I am not immediately positive about it, and that it does not result in everyone having equal opportunities to participate, and that it does not reach everyone. In fact, it only widens the gap between people who can participate and people who can't actually participate. How is the Labour Party, in all the proposals it is going to make for participation, control and participation, going to ensure that it does not widen that gap and actually undermine democracy and the weighting of all interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u277	Let me look, because I think this debate is about the corrective referendum. That's what we're talking about. The Labour Party has taken a position on this. We're not gonna support that. You're asking for a new form. I say that, as in my speech, we are going to discuss this with each other in this Chamber. I do not have any specific proposals for this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u278	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u279	Well, okay. I'm worried about that. It has become clear to the three parties who submitted this bill first, who have been piloting it through Parliament and who no longer want to defend it now, to say: we are coming up with something new. That's going to be about thinking along and "co-, co-, co-," but not deciding eventually. The bottom line is that the Labour Party is throwing shoes away here before it has even thought about new shoes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u280	Thank you. You've made your point. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Mr Van Raak can answer directly. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here, but I shouldn't be standing here. Here, of course, MPs belong to GroenLinks, the Labour Party and D66, but they no longer dare to defend their own law. That is why I am doing it, because I believe that voters should be able to correct the Members of Parliament. The negotiations with the current consultative referendum also show why a new and binding referendum is urgently needed. I'm glad I'm standing here. I'm also very happy with my advisors. I would like to thank Mr Dubbelboer for his presence and his opinions. I would also like to thank Mr Van der Ham for his opinions and his presence. They are two of the original authors of this bill. I would also like to thank Mrs Temmink for always advising me. As a stand defender, I will, of course, try to answer all the questions as well as possible, but first I would like to explain briefly how I got here in box K, hopefully also in reply to Mrs Leijten's questions. In May 1999, a first legislative proposal for a corrective referendum could not count on sufficient majority in the Upper House. The Kok I cabinet had obtained a majority in the Second and First Chambers before this law. After elections, the second cabinet of Kok also received a required two-thirds majority in the Lower House, but not in the Upper Chamber. It has already been mentioned today: the night of Wiegel. A new law for a corrective referendum in 2003 prompted the First Chamber to discuss the constitutional action of that House. The result was the fall of the first cabinet-Balkenende, which took place in July 2002 but fell again in October, after which new elections followed. I think the Constitution is clear. After a proposal for amendment of the Constitution has been adopted by the Second and First Chambers, the same law "after the election and installation of the new House of Representatives" must be re-examined. During the brief existence of the Balkenende I cabinet, this Chamber had failed to deal with a number of amendments to the Constitution, including the law we are discussing today. Following the elections in January 2003, a new House of Representatives joined, which decided to consider the proposals for amending the Constitution. In March 2004, the First Chamber, of which I myself was a member at the time, held a debate that this procedure would open the door to improper use, because an amendment to the Constitution could remain on the shelf. The Council of State also stated in an opinion that this is certainly not the intention. The Council of State also said that in future amendments to the Constitution should preferably be tabled on the first day of the new Chamber in such cases. In 2006 the House of Representatives again discussed the amendment of the Constitution. This led to a note from the Minister of the Interior in December 2009. It was agreed that amendments to the Constitution should be tabled as soon as possible after new elections, preferably on the first day after the new Chamber would meet. The cabinet also confirmed that it would be "very undesirable" if applicants waited for the reason that a more favourable composition would be foreseen for a next Lower House. We're going back to this law. This proposal for a corrective referendum is an initiative of GroenLinks, the Labour Party and D66. It was adopted in April 2013 by the Lower House and in April 2014 by the Upper House. At the same time as this proposal for a binding referendum, the same groups have tabled a proposal for an advisory referendum. This law came into force in July 2015 and allows citizens to enforce a referendum themselves. We also saw this in April last year with a referendum on a treaty with Ukraine. After the March elections this year, the legislative proposal for a corrective referendum had to be submitted to the Lower House as soon as possible for second reading. The Minister for the Interior sent us a letter just before the elections. After the elections, I asked the political groups of the original authors of GroenLinks, the Labour Party and D66 for clarification on several occasions, including at procedural meetings on 11 April, 20 April and 11 May. When it appeared that the members of these groups were not prepared to fulfil their constitutional duty, on 23 May I myself tabled this law at this second reading in order to ensure that this Chamber still complies with its constitutional duty. I must say that I do not regret this, because we have seen an interesting debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u282	I have a question for the author. What would have happened if it hadn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u283	If an initiative law is not submitted by the original proposers at second reading, it becomes a constitutional responsibility of the minister. In the past, also on behalf of the cabinet, he has expressed a negative opinion on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u284	Neutral!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u285	In a neutral sense. Well, then we would have had a minister here who would have had to defend this law "in a neutral sense." It can't be. I don't think that goes with an initiative law either. The initiators indicated to the Minister that they wanted to submit the law. They told me they didn't want to. The Minister concluded that there were members in the Chamber who wanted to defend the initiative law. Well, I guess I finally did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u286	I also understand that if you do not deal with the bill in good time, it will actually expire. Is that right? Or isn't that constitutional?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u287	Well, a second reading should be done by a successor chamber. If, therefore, I mention what, the negotiating parties do not come out and decide that new elections should be held, then we have not fulfilled our constitutional task of dealing directly with this law at second reading after elections. There's always that danger. That is why the Council of State indicated, and previously also the Cabinet indicated in a note that you should deal with such a law as soon as possible. That is why it should preferably be submitted on the first day of meeting and then dealt with as soon as possible. Well, after May 23rd, I tried to hurry. Before recess, the Chamber had the opportunity to submit written questions. I answered it during the recess. The law was filed right after the summer recess. That's why we can get here at its fastest today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u288	Thank you for the work of the SP. I actually have an informative question for Mr Van Raak. I thought he sketched that a petitioner couldn't defend a law neutrally or negatively. Or did I misunderstand him?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u289	This is an initiative law, so it concerns petitioners from the Chamber. I believe that since the mid-1970s it has been customary for an initiative law to be followed by a second reading by the Chamber. It is very unusual to leave that to the government. And in this case it is not particularly desirable, because there must be someone here who is neutral against the law. Well, you can defend a law, you can be against a law, but I didn't feel comfortable defending such a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u290	Part of my speech just now was that it might also be a crazy figure if proposers who are no longer in favour of this bill would sit in box K to defend the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u291	Well, it's a crazy figure that a party makes a law that defends law and gets that law passed, and then doesn't defend it anymore. There's the crazy guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u292	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u293	I would like to begin by thanking the groups which have already expressed their support. Mr Bosma expressed his support on behalf of the PVV and said: do not be so afraid of the people, they are just people. I agree. I would like to thank Mr Krol for his support on behalf of 50PLUS. He said: it seems as if the opponents are insecure. I noticed that, too. Many thanks also to Mr Baudet of the Forum for Democracy for his support. He said: democracy is not working. Well, we're pretty here today anyway. But I do agree wholeheartedly with him that democracy is not going to work. And this law can make our parliamentary democracy work better. I would like to comment on this later when I answer other questions from other Members. I would also like to thank Mrs Leijten for the support. She says: we don't have to be afraid of the people, of the voters. I very much agree with that. She also referred to the good memories she had of the 2005 referendum on the European Constitution. I have those good memories, too. At that time, we both grew up more or less politically in that campaign. I also remember the party we had in Artis in Amsterdam, where half the world press had gathered and I was late at night, or at night, I don't know, had to do an interview for Fox News. That was my first time. Just when I was watching live for the whole of America, a rock band started right behind me and I could just swing through the ether that there is a different sound from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u294	Thank you for sharing that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u295	But unfortunately that was not the case, because there was no other sound. The Netherlands said no to the European Constitution and it became a yes. I have to say, however, that precisely the European Constitution, the success of the European Constitution, of the then Green Left, Labour Party and D66 were the reasons for submitting this law for a corrective referendum. I shall come back to that later on to Mr Jetten's questions. Mr. Koopmans first. He says he's against it. But he always was, so that's consistent. He does say that he is in favour of representative democracy and therefore against the referendum. I find that remarkable. I am also in favour of representative democracy, but that is precisely why I am in favour of the referendum. Questions were also raised by Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP and Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA. The corrective referendum is a form of direct democracy, that is true, but I do not think it is contrary to representative democracy. On the contrary. The referendum, as proposed in this law, is precisely a strengthening of our representative democracy, making it mature. This proposal for a corrective referendum does not replace the constitutional tasks of the Lower House and the Upper House, but complements them. By means of elections, citizens of this country can elect their representation, the members of the Lower House directly and the members of the Upper House indirectly, after which the States-General, on behalf of all those voters, carries out his constitutional duties. This proposal allows the same electorate to correct the elected at the time when, in the opinion of a majority of voters, the representatives accept a law that they do not want. In my view, this is a healthy relationship between voters and elected representatives and makes our representative democracy mature. So I totally disagree with that argument. Perhaps in the recital later, including in the recital in your group, Mr Koopmans, this argument can still play a part in your final judgement in the vote. Mr Koopmans also had some technical questions, including why the electoral thresholds and other technical matters are not included in the Constitution. I think that is a rather remarkable question from Mr Koopmans. He's a spokesperson for the Constitution. He knows the Constitution. He can dream him. He noted that these provisions were general provisions. It seems clumsy to me, or at least not appropriate, to include in the Constitution all kinds of technical and executive matters that do not fit into a constitution at all, also in practical terms. We have all kinds of technological developments. Of course, we may have a discussion about the precise thresholds, the precise implementation, the way you collect signatures. If you can only change that with a change to the Constitution... This change to the Constitution has been going on for 12 years! That's not very flexible. I must compliment the original authors. They've solved that elegantly. They have said: if you change technical things, for example the thresholds, you will need a two-thirds majority, as is also necessary at second reading when amending the Constitution. Then you have a system that's more flexible. You don't have to wait 12 years to change anything. The technique sometimes goes a little faster, but you do need a two-thirds majority, so a coalition cannot simply raise very high thresholds without the support of the opposition or otherwise make a referendum virtually impossible when it comes to subjects that the coalition does not like. So there is always a need for support from at least part of the opposition, but you no longer have that strange constitutional trajectory, which does not fit in with this. Mr Van der Staaij has not made a turn. In my view, this has been the SGP's position for a hundred years: against referenda. He does say: if you have to choose, choose a corrective referendum. In any case, on behalf of Mr Van der Staaij, I would like to pass that opinion on to the other spokesmen. He also asked about the relationship with the consultative referendum. What do I think of the consultative referendum? I hope I am not out of order, Mr President, because it is about the corrective referendum, but I note that GroenLinks, Labour Party and D66 have proposed the consultative referendum as a stepping stone to this law, as a stepping stone to a truly binding referendum. If this law reaches a sufficiently large majority in this Chamber for a second reading for a corrective referendum, if I can defend this law on your behalf in the First Chamber and if he makes it there, then I think that the law for a consultative referendum will in fact become superfluous, because people will always want to organise a corrective referendum. On the other hand, however, as Mr Van der Staaij may suggest, the existing law for a consultative referendum will not be necessary if this proposal for a corrective referendum is not given sufficient support. I don't think so. Then we have that law. Next summer, the review of that law will begin. We have now had one referendum, perhaps one, perhaps two, perhaps more; I do not know. We're going to review that law next year. That seems to me a good time to look again at that law for a consultative referendum. I would find it very remarkable if all kinds of plans were made in coalition negotiations or coalition. That wouldn't fit. Nor would it be appropriate for the legislative process to be said that an evaluation should be carried out next summer. That's gonna be a weird evaluation. Mrs Bruins Slot says that power cannot be exercised without accountability. Power cannot be exercised without accountability; I agree with that. However, that is an argument for her to oppose the corrective referendum. We believe that this is the main argument for being in favour of the correct referendum. Again, voters choose us and we do our job. But what's weird about the people who chose us being able to correct us again? That makes perfect sense to me. It is also a right that we have now given citizens. You can also see that, when the population has an opinion on this, there are all kinds of discussions with goat paths and so on and that this leads to dissatisfaction. This law for a corrective referendum also provides an important part of the solution to problems that we have with the current consultative referendum. Mrs Bruins Slot says: I listen very carefully to the Vice-President of the Council of State. That's okay, that's okay, that's the old CDA, but maybe she should also listen to the CDA council member in Amsterdam. That's a new and very different CDA. Mrs Özütok says that people want to be able to pull the emergency brake. Yes. That's a reason for her to be against this law. I can't interpret that in any way. I can only see that that is an argument for this law. She says we want to take citizens into the process. Yes. Citizens and voters want to be taken away if they are allowed to take part in the decision. The fact that citizens are invited everywhere to talk but are not allowed to take part in the decision ultimately leads to dissatisfaction. That leads to suspicion. People think: we can talk what we want, but they do what they want in The Hague. That's how you organize disappointment and mistrust. People need to talk, but talking along in a democracy also means taking part in decisions. Mrs Özütok also said: you cannot say yes or no. Well, I think that's the core of our democracy. We don't do anything but say yes or no. It is good that Mr Van Dijk spoke today on behalf of the Labour Party. He says, "We don't want a charade." No, I don't want to, but we have a charade. When parties make a law, stand here in trade-K and defend that law with all possible arguments in the Lower House and even in the Senate and then say after the elections "now we don't know anymore and we don't want to defend that law anymore," it becomes a charade. My advisor called that "demophobia" and introduced a new word in our country. I have to agree with my advisor in that regard. Mr. Jetten, on behalf of D66, mentioned Wiegel's night. I call it "the afternoon of Jetten" today. It has a long but also strange history that Mr. Jetten plays the same role today as Mr. Wiegel once played in the Senate. He comes up with an alternative and says: we are in favour of the binding corrective referendum, which is also on our website, but that should not apply to international treaties. I find that remarkable, because the original authors, including D66, used the Treaty on the European Constitution to make this law. In 2005, the Treaty on the European Constitution for the Labour Party, GroenLinks and D66 gave the right to make this law. And what's so interesting? The result of that referendum had already been. The Netherlands had said no and yet the authors of that time, the MPs of GroenLinks, the Labour Party and D66 said: the people did not follow us, but the fact that we have been corrected and that there has been such a nice debate on such a fundamental issue was a celebration for democracy. That was exactly the reason for making such a law. That law has been defended. Just before the referendum on Ukraine in April last year, members of the D66 Group defended in opinion papers that this was so good. But one day after the referendum, it wasn't. I can only conclude that the result of the referendum is the cause. I do not think the referendum is the problem, but the D66 Group. Mr. Jetten says we've consulted our members. Well, I have a lot of respect for that. There are 26,000 members. At the Congress 166 members said no to a corrective referendum and 143 yes. That's a majority; that's right. This distance has been removed from a tradition of 50 years. You can make that choice. You can also say that recently a poll by the Dog showed that 65% of the D66 voters are in favour of the referendum and 34% against. You can argue about that, but then you have to stand here and defend it. Mr. Jetten did it there, at the pulpit; that's almost good, but he shouldn't have let me do his job anyway. A majority is far away, says Mr Jetten as an argument against this law. But can I point out to Mr Jetten that this majority is far away thanks to the actions of D66, Labour Party and GroenLinks? With that argument, I can't do that much. According to Mr Jetten, support for referendums has been reduced. Yes, that's right: in this room. In this Chamber the support for referenda has been reduced, but outside the Chamber it is still large. Two thirds of voters still say it wants referendums. Here in the Chamber, perhaps two thirds will say: we do not want it. But that shows the naked truth of our democracy, doesn't it? That shows the immense gap between the voters and the elected, doesn't it? I'm sorry, because we were elected by people. We're not in charge here. We are not in charge of democracy. Those are the voters. We're representatives. I find it strange, painful, that a majority of a House of Representatives is threatening to behave like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u296	And what does this mean in the longer term for the image of democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u297	I think that's very damaging. Democracy belongs to the citizens. The voters choose us. Voters have a need to correct us. And if we as MPs do not allow ourselves to be corrected, then we have a problem, a rot in our democracy. That's a big problem. Perhaps it is still an argument for some groups to take along, but this debate does touch on the core of our democracy and the core of our representative democracy. That is what I say to all the parties who say: I am in favour of representative democracy, I am in favour of representative democracy. The representative democracy is under pressure. And it is mainly under pressure from the way we deal with referendums and with the voice of the people. Which brings me to the conclusion. A recent opinion survey by De Hond shows that as many as two thirds of the population want to keep the referendum. And yes, citizens are critical of the referendum, but that is mainly on how the Lower House deals with the results of referendums. During the referendum on the European Constitution in 2005, the Netherlands said no, but the House of Representatives said yes. During the referendum on the treaty with Ukraine last year, the Netherlands said no again, but the House of Representatives once again said yes. The problem is not the referendum, but the House of Representatives is the problem. It is not a bad thing in a democracy if the people say no, but it is a bad thing if directors then say yes. Then democracy gets rotten, then we play with the trust of citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u298	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van Raak for answering one of my two questions. But I know Mr Van Raak as someone, and certainly his party as a party, who is asking a lot of questions and is very eager to answer them. I'd like that, too. I had first put the question in writing, but I did not get an answer to that at the time, and now orally, and I am not getting an answer to that again. The draft law before us says that laws that only serve to implement a treaty are not referendable, but others are. So I had asked the question twice: what if a law but for a very small particle doesn't? It is perhaps a small point, the VVD is against the corrective referendum, but we must also look honestly at the technical objections, the technical shortcomings of this law. This is a technical flaw. It can't be like that, can it? I would nevertheless like Mr Van Raak's answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u299	I remember the lively discussions during the first examination of this law. At that time, it was a question of whether treaties concerned only the Netherlands, Saba, Statia and Bonaire in this case, or also Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. And if that is the case, how can we involve these countries? It was also agreed at that time that this should be developed, but not an effect in the Constitution. That is an effect in the impact law, in which we can answer this question, as well as questions about thresholds, questions about how exactly you can bring which signatures in what way to Heerlen by which bus or train. These are all matters that do not belong in the Constitution but in the implementing law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u300	I am sorry to say so, but I suspect that Mr Van Raak is now answering a question that I have not asked. My question was another one. The bill says: if you have a bill that only sees implementation of a treaty, then that is not referendable. But if you have a legislative proposal that is almost exclusively but not entirely exclusively, let's say 90%; then 10% of it is something else about implementing a treaty, then according to the current bill it would be referendable. That means that you can have a referendum on an implementing law under a treaty if you add only one sentence as "this must also have a color." That is a looming error in this bill, an additional reason on top of the fundamental reason to oppose it. It's a looming mistake. Will Mr Van Raak acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u301	I think it's just a matter of effect. In these cases, you can make different choices. You can make it referendable. You can't make it referendable. You can make it partly referendable. If Mr Koopmans supports this proposal, we can discuss it extensively at a later stage in an implementing law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u302	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u303	Finally, I would like to conclude that Mr Van Raak is not actually answering my question. It's so in the bill that he's defending here right now. It only says: exclusively. I note that, if the net is not exclusive, it is therefore referendable. I do not think that is what the proposers want either, but what they have written down. Mr Van Raak is defending this here too. That's just wrong. Then it seems to me right that Mr Van Raak simply recognizes that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u304	I want to acknowledge everything, but I believe that the interpretation of "implementation" can be discussed by an implementing law. I would like to have that discussion with Mr Koopmans, from the other field.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u305	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u306	We're at a crossroads. We can now go two ways. This House can say: we leave the people behind, we know better. I therefore look forward with some fear and trembling to the coalition agreement. I really hope that the new coalition will not take the decision to abolish the existing consultative referendum. This will further reduce the confidence of many citizens in politics. This Chamber simply cannot afford that. We can go another way. Today, this Chamber can opt for a real referendum, which leaves no room for political scheming and back room politics. Today, this Chamber can show that it is prepared to have itself corrected. That could be a start to regain citizens' confidence. That's not really a choice. That's an expensive duty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u307	Thank you very much, Mr Van Raak. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the case of legislative proposals, you always pay compliments to the people who have gone through the whole process. In this case, we are dealing with a state-law novel. I've been checking it out for a while. It is, of course, already rare for a constitutional amendment to be proposed by means of an own-initiative proposal, because it is generally a broad-based proposal, which you can assume will also be supported by the government coalition, and which is therefore also proposed from subject-K. But it happens every once in a while. What has not happened before is that it is brought here at second reading by a political party other than the parties that brought it in at first reading. So it is indeed a state-law novel. There was just a discussion about what the Constitution is saying about starting the second reading. Mr Van Raak said it would say that it should be dealt with at second reading. I do not want to correct him, but that is not a quote from the Constitution. I took it with me for a while. It says: "After the new House of Representatives has come together, both Chambers in second reading consider the proposal." In other words, the constitutionalist assumes that if both Chambers were in favour of it at first reading, it will be dealt with at second reading, but let alone anyone who takes the initiative to do so. That is why I wrote earlier in a letter to the Chamber that it is reasonable that it should be dealt with in one way or another here. That's what's happening now. My compliments to Mr Van Raak for taking that step. I also congratulate those who were responsible for the first reading at the time. I'll make my contribution pretty brief. Because what we were neutral at first reading, not for and not against, is my advice at the moment blank, I say for the gourmets. That's just something other than neutral, because it means I'm not giving advice. I've checked the King's request. He has asked us to continue to do what is necessary in the interests of the Kingdom. That was his line. That means you're restricting yourself to things that really can't have a delay. I am not talking about the order of the sitting, but it may well be that this issue is also raised in the cabinet formation and so on. At a later date, therefore, there may be a cabinet here that can still give a substantive opinion on it. I think it is a lot of things, so on another occasion I would like to talk about it again, but in this role and here my advice is blank.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u309	You said at the beginning that it would be short. Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u310	No, I'm not quite done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u311	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Leijten for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u312	Then I would like to ask the Minister, as an advisor to the Chamber, what is smart to do. For suppose the cabinet is proposing to set up a binding corrective referendum, but we will be voting away next week. Would it be wise to hold it until there is a missionary cabinet and then proceed to the vote on this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u313	That's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u314	I am not giving any advice on that point. I would point out, however, that the proposal did not reach a two-thirds majority in either Chamber at first reading. So even if the parties stick to the position they had before, it is not obvious that the bill will achieve a two-thirds majority in both Chambers. Anyway, you don't know that. I would also like to touch on the aspect of costs, but I must also point out that, when there is a missionary cabinet here, the question is full of the opinion of the cabinet, possibly also in the First Chamber, including the position on the granting of the contradiction. Because, of course, the cabinet has its own role to play. It's not entirely an automatism that it always appears in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u315	Mrs. Leijten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u316	I was thinking whether I had an answer or not, but I heard the President say that we are going to vote on it ourselves or not. I found it interesting to hear that it is a blank opinion: we do not know what is happening on the negotiating table, so we are not taking a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u317	I didn't say that. I said: it is not appropriate for me, as a outgoing cabinet, to take a position on this rather political choice on behalf of the sitting cabinet. I don't think that's necessary either, because it's up to you how you handle it in the House of Representatives. Should it reach a two-thirds majority here, I assume there is a missionary cabinet that can still take a stand in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u318	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u319	I have two more points. Firstly, I have given some thought, constructively as I am, to the D66 Group, which has included in the electoral programme that international treaties should be excluded from the referendum. Could it still be possible to be for this now and then adapt it to normal law? That is not possible because Article 89b of the draft Constitutional Amendment adopted at first reading provides a limitative list of what is excluded. In case there is any doubt, Article 89g says that everything else can be regulated by ordinary law. But this isn't anymore. So if you are in favour of this, its scope includes international conventions. Finally. I drew attention to the cost aspect in the consultative referendum. I remember that. At that time I was somewhat looked at by the initiators as if I was touching a very low-to-ground subject on this high-profile issue. That has also been ignored and the law has been passed without cost coverage. In practice, this has been dealt with in a huge amount, because municipalities said that it costs 40 million and we are not going to pay it. This has led to heated debates. I would therefore like to point out that the proposal as it stands is not covered. Should it eventually reach the finish line, then it should be covered. Those are also the rules we have agreed on, at least in the coalition of the outgoing cabinet. So that should always be covered for a final judgment. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u320	Thank you. I'll see if there's a need for a second term, at least, I'll see if everyone needs it or not. I call Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u321	Mr. Chairman. As you know, I would like to be transparent. I did not celebrate the election results of the European Constitutional referendum with Mr Van Raak. It was the time when we both grew up politically, but I still lived in Groningen. We celebrated it there, I'm sure, with just as great a vote as we did in Amsterdam. But I didn't hear that same rock band and I didn't see Mr. Van Raak shine for Fox News either. But we did shine in Groningen, I can tell you. I find this a curious debate. From the way I look at society, I think people should have control. Control at work. Control in class, in college. Control in the situation in which they receive care or provide care. We are a society in which bureaucrats increasingly take over and are increasingly organized away by people who do know what others want. It is sometimes democratised with participation councils that ultimately, when they sit at the table with a university board, do not have so much participation, but can actually only talk a little and not take part in the decision. I would like to see us choose much more radically and that people can agree or vote on what they want in neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods, for example on what the greening services look like and on whether or not there are facilities nearby. And yes, now we're talking about something very big in which it's about being able to stop a law. Because if you think about that, that's what it's really about when you're organizing a referendum with each other. Then you're holding something back. Because, yes, if you're in favour, you don't have to organise a referendum. And that wouldn't be possible, because people wouldn't be able to make decisions, when every day they make all kinds of decisions of great importance. In elections, they make decisions of great importance for four years. What strikes me today is that we are accountable in elections, whereas in elections in people's minds it is mainly about the future. Which party is my future or that of my children or close friends the safest? On the contrary, I would welcome the opportunity for those nearly 13 million voters to organise themselves and force them to say what they think of what a government has done. In addition, a minority who may be a majority can correct a majority here. I'd like that very much. As representatives of the people, we should not be afraid of the people, nor should we be afraid of control. I am truly convinced that we can break cynicism at a time when we are much more democratizing in many areas. That is the cynicism that "we" do not matter, because "they" decide about us; whether "they" are housing corporations, school boards, care agencies or we are as politicians. That is why it would be a real shame if we did not take the step towards a correct referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u322	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I shall then give the floor to Mr Martin Bosma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u323	Yes, I remember that night from 2005 too, because the PVV collected a lot of money to rent that rock band, so Mr Van Raak couldn't be heard on Fox News anymore. Yes, left-wing people on right-wing channels: you shouldn't want that all together. Thank you to Mr Van Raak and both of you for the state-law glamour that has been delivered to us today. Thank you to Mr Pechtold for writing my text. We have been in touch for a while and I have promised that as a maker I will write his text for the General Reviews. No, I'm making that up, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Van Dijk for inviting me to the PvdA Members' Congress, but I prefer to confine myself to the congresses of my own party. We usually do that at Geert's house, just the two of us. Then Mrs Wilders makes some delicious snacks and Dion arrives late at night. So, no thanks, I'm not coming. Mr. Chairman. Maybe I need to explain to the people at home who don't understand what's really going on, because you have three parties that are involved in a wonderful initiative bill and they come up with all kinds of excuses not to support it. GroenLinks says that people need to be included in the process and talks about new forms of democracy. D66 is hiding behind the international treaties. The Labour Party is hiding behind congressional statements. It's obvious bullshit. Congressional statements are very often passed through the paper shredder. The SP often serves them as a motion. And even the PvdA won't vote for it. Hiding behind international treaties is apekool, because entire generations of D66 fractions were before it. What's going on? All the parties who had a slap of the mill in May 1968 and who converted to the sixties ideology, who were full of mouthfulness, democratisation and participation at all levels and university councils etc., have found that the people are not progressive at all and do not share the ideals of May 1968. That's why they want to crush all the people's ability to stir themselves. It's not as simple as that. Also, the whole internationalisation agenda, the mass immigration agenda, see the EU, the Netherlands should not have anything. And so all these parties are terrified of what the people want. Two things very briefly. Perhaps the referendum will be kicked out in the coalition agreement. If so, I very much hope that there will be a referendum on the referendum. Then we're gonna party like it's 2005, I say to Mr Van Raak. Then we'll all really go out on the street and get signatures to take care of the referendum. My second conclusion is that the real D66s were about the ideals of Van Mierlo, about direct democracy and therefore also the referendum. Real D66s have read Turnpoint '72, the election program of D66, which said "no immigration." Real D66s, they just vote PVV. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u324	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. Then Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u325	Madam President. I can be brief, although I can't stop thinking about that night with Fox News.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u326	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u327	I really want to know who is the woman Mr Van Raak has memories of. Anyway, let's not get involved. I'd like to make a call. Give people a voice. Dare to let others correct your work. Don't try to hold power crampy. Let's be honest: the First Chamber is important, the Second Chamber is important, but the living room is most important. If that referendum is voted down by us, I hope that there will indeed be one more referendum, as Mr Bosma says, to see how the people feel about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u328	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I am looking at Mr Baudet and Mr Van der Staaij. I believe that we have now completed the second term on behalf of the Chamber. I call Mr Ronald van Raak, the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u329	Yeah, I think I can be pretty short. We have heard about parties in Wilders' house where Mr Graus is visiting. It is somewhat disturbing that I was at parties with Mrs Leijten which Mrs Leijten did not appear to be present. And Mr Krol hasn't said anything yet about parties. But this, of course, should have been a celebration of democracy. Two-thirds of the voters would like to have the opportunity to correct us. If it turns out that two thirds of the House of Representatives say not to be corrected, then we are in our shirt. Then we see how big the gap is between voters and elected people. So I think I want to give you all the message: think about it carefully. This is the real referendum. And I would like to say to the D66 Group in particular: be careful what we have, at least, in the consultative referendum. I would find it remarkable if we were to have a referendum on the referendum, because then the struggle between voters and elected representatives is complete, whereas we are supposed to be the representatives of those voters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u330	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the initiator, Mr Van Raak, his technical support and the Minister as an advisor to the Chamber not only very much for submitting this bill but also for defending it. It is always special that MPs are in trade-k and sticking their necks out for subjects that concern citizens. I see almost everyone at the interrupting microphone. I think this is a procedural proposal. Is that correct, Mrs. Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u331	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I didn't want to cross your warm words to the proposers and the defenders. I would like to ask for the vote on this bill to be postponed until there is a missionary cabinet. We can then see if we are going to vote on it, when we are going to vote on it, and if we may need another deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-7.u332	I believe that everyone agrees with that; you are supported in this.
