ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u1	The next item is the Tax Plan 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u2	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. I give the floor to Mr Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u3	What a mess! What chaos! What a mockery! This is the first tax plan I can deal with on behalf of the PVV, but I really cannot imagine that there has ever been such a bad and so chaotic treatment before. The Finance Committee had two days to discuss Rutte II's Tax Plan. This was a hilarious theatre, in which the new Secretary of State of Rutte III, Mr Menno Snel of D66, defended the plans of Rutte II. The real representative of Rutte II, Mr Nijboer of the PvdA, then attacked the Secretary of State on the plans of the PvdA, so his own plans. And then I have to tell my kids at home that what Dad's doing in The Hague is very serious. Mr. Chairman. Two days we have had the opportunity to discuss an old and outdated Tax Plan by Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u4	I can imagine that Mr Mulder is a little bit confused with this evening's text and that he thinks: I still have hours to speak. I can imagine that this will make it a bit of an incoherent story, but the PvdA has said that it is positive about this Tax Plan. So I don't know where the words come from that we're so opposed to this. The purchasing power effects for older people and beneficiaries are being repaired. We have said that we will all support that. I'll say that again later, so I'm a little surprised about this. Mr Mulder is actually confusing the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u5	I would advise anyone who has the opportunity to look back at the committee meeting. That is where we have experienced really hilarious discussions between two parties who were suddenly in a different role and were chasing each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u6	Mr. Nijboer one more time. I would also like to agree with all of you that we are doing the interruptions in two today. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u7	Of course, I have been critical of parts, but not of the main thrust of the Tax Plan. For example, there is compensation for the elderly and beneficiaries. That should also be supported by the PVV, when you hear what a bit of their direction is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u8	Then let me conclude that on those parts it was a hilarious theatre between two people from two parties, who suddenly had a different role. It's really hard for people at home to understand. I say this through you, Mr President, to my colleague Mr Nijboer of the PvdA. I repeat: we were able to discuss Rutte II's Tax Plan for two days. Shortly afterwards, the new coalition parties decided to add six laws to the Tax Plan. Then suddenly we had a tax plan of Rutte III. To complete the celebration, last Thursday the Finance Committee continued voting until the coalition had a majority, so that we also have to deal with the Hills Act tonight. In the real world, the world of the common Dutchman, there are words to describe this whole process. I think it would be wise not to use these words during my first Tax Plan treatment. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet hasn't been going on for a month, but it's already finished. Already! Rutte III lost his credibility when it became clear that the large announced reduction in charges is in fact an increase in charges. The outstretched hand they were talking about turned out to be a raised middle finger. Pressing through the treatment of the abolition of the Hills Act is a clear example of the real attitude of the cabinet towards the opposition. This cabinet is not reliable. Abolishing the dividend tax without argument and without openness is a low point. And worst of all, this cabinet does not opt for the Netherlands, but for Africa and the multinationals. And also the figures presented about the Tax Plan are downright misleading, because the Netherlands is not doing well. The Netherlands is in a bad way. The talk of this cabinet from a few weeks ago has already been pierced. There's no load relief. On balance, the charges do not go down. They are increasing structurally by 1.2 billion euros. A structural burden increase of EUR 1.2 billion! That is not just what the PVV says, that is just what the Minister says. Then this cabinet is also smuggling. Then it does a trick, because Rutte III brings out old money. The 5 billion of the intervention in the housing market is not used in 30 years but in 4 years. So much for the careful handling of public money from the VVD and the stewardship of the CDA! Mr. Chairman. It was too obvious, too coincidental. Around the elections suddenly came the reports that things would be better. The crisis was over, everyone was going to make money again, there were trees again and they were going to grow. And with the arrival of Rutte III there would be reliefs: 4 billion, 6 billion, 9 billion, it could not be done. The press cheered along. Finally, the people who should have paid for the EU and the banking crisis would get something back. Nonsense, lies, a magic trick! So there is no relief. And after 2021, taxes have to go up even further. This is what the Council of State says. They need to go up by 3 billion, structuralally. Prime Minister Rutte's successor will already have a problem. The adadium of this cabinet is "after me the flood" and that in a cabinet with the CDA. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet consistently makes the wrong choices. The choice of this cabinet for abroad rather than for the Netherlands is wrong. The choice for the elite rather than the ordinary citizen is scandalous. And the choice of immigrants, lucky seekers and status holders at the expense of our own population is nauseating. There's no other way. We can also make the Netherlands a better country. 1. Stop the useless development aid and use this money to reduce the AOW age to 65 years. 2. Do not reduce the vpb rates and do not cancel the dividend tax for foreign investors, but use this money to keep the mortgage interest rate deduction, the Hills Act and VAT unaffected. 3. Return the budget surplus of a 0.5%, amounting to 4.2 billion euros, to the Dutch. 4. Close the borders, lock them, for all asylum seekers and for all immigrants from Islamic countries and withdraw all temporary residence permits of Syrians in the Netherlands. And use that money, the money that then gets out, to eliminate the risk and lower the care premium. And finally: cancel the expat scheme and use this money to reverse the halving of domestic help. Then we'll do something for the Netherlands. Then we'll make our country a little better. We should finally stop pumping away our hard-earned taxpayers' money abroad, so we can also spend that money in our own country. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, purchasing power has been eroded and taxes have already increased by billions. Instead of stimulating the economy, Rutte chose to clean up hard. Older people's care was broken down, social security was shattered and, as a blow to the head, the retirement age rose. If we don't pay attention, we're gonna have to work for up to 70 years. We work longest, we pay most of our money to Brussels and Africa, and we also pay ridiculously much tax in our own country. And unfortunately, Rutte III continues on this road. Once again, Rutte III does not create a real purchasing power improvement. Let me give you a few examples. A family with two children, income €30,000 per year, decreases €2 on it. Second example. A few without children, one of whom works, with €35,000 income, and the other has an early retirement of €25,000, is declining €21 per month. And a single, 65-plus, with an AOW of €30,000 per year, gets €35 per month less. Mr. Chairman. There are examples of people who suffer damage up to €63 per month. What do you mean, an improvement in purchasing power? As the economy grows this year by 3.3% and next year by 2.5%, citizens get little to nothing but abroad everything. In all these figures, wages are expected to rise by more than 3% a year. 3.3% and four years in a row. Seriously, four years 3.3% pay rise. So this cabinet gives everything to Africa and to the elite and then says to the Dutch: yes, but you also get some money. That may not come from us, because we're giving it to someone else, but ask your boss. But that money you're asking your boss, I'm counting on, because it's so cute in those pictures. Spending other people's money, wasn't there a word for that? What does this cabinet say to Siemens' employees in Hengelo who heard they were fired last week? Not entirely coincidentally, the province of Overijssel has the same administrative composition as nationwide: VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion. In any case, those Siemens people will not have an increase of 3.3% a year in the next few years. So they have a problem. And it's actually worse. Because in addition to the care costs that are rising enormously, energy costs are also rising. More taxes for windmills and other fairy tales. Mr. Chairman. At the request of the PVV, this Chamber received an overview of the increase in energy costs for households in the Netherlands. An overview of how much euro the citizens are going to pay to heat the houses and turn on the lights. That rise is huge. We received a lot of questions that the citizens will pay €138 extra, 35% extra. And that in a time with extremely low oil prices. Energy has never been so cheap and yet the energy costs of the Dutch increase by 35%. The real costs have yet to come, because the cabinet does not yet want to give them. They come with the implementation of the Paris agreements. A question to the Secretary of State: can you indicate whether the increase in energy costs by 35% we have received from you has already included the costs of the Paris agreements? And if they're not in there, would you like to make an estimate of how high they are? And a second question. The increase we received from 35%, €138, is an average price for an average family, but that means that the people who now have solar panels on their roof pay less and the people without solar panels therefore have higher costs. Is it possible that we will be told what the people will pay for the next four years who do not have solar panels on their roofs? Then it might be, but I'd like to hear that they don't pay €138 more but maybe €300 or €400. If you give those answers, it would be nice if you added a comment or if it is true that the ordinary Dutchman will pay for the hobbies of the rich elite. Mr. Chairman. Just a few points from the Tax Plan, first of all the gambling tax. The PVV is against the plan to temporarily increase the rate for the gambling tax. The PVV gives us an itch from the word "temporary." Everyone knows there's nothing as permanent as a temporary tax increase. Nor will we support the increase in sales tax for sea-going vessels and the obligation to set VAT on agriculture. Mr. Chairman. Locking up. It is deeply and deeply sad that the cabinet does not take the opportunities that exist now. For years, the Netherlands has had to bleed for the banks and the EU crisis. Now that things are getting a little bit better, unfortunately the cabinet does not choose the Netherlands but consistently for Africa and the elite. The people in the Netherlands get nothing, Africa get everything. Fortunately, the citizens have something to choose in the March elections. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs De Vries of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with two aspects: new measures coming out of the coalition agreement, which are incorporated into the Tax Plan, but also the old Tax Plan, to which reference has just been made. I shall not now go into the substance of the phasing-out of the deduction on account of any or all of our own house debts, i.e. the Hills Act. I think we will come back to that in a fairly comprehensive way. I'd like to do that, too. Mr. Chairman. If the VVD looks at the total package of tax measures in the coalition agreement, then the VVD is satisfied. We are going to reduce income tax significantly, we are going to reduce corporate tax and we are going to reduce the tax on savings: all in all, a package of around EUR 6.5 billion in relief. After the difficult years in the economic crisis, we want to make it feel better. Most groups, but especially the middle groups and the families, will benefit from this. We also think that work should pay more again and that if you get a few more euros, you should not go down on it in one go. We then do so by, among other things, adjusting the rent payment, but also by gradually phasing out the old-age discount. Mr. Chairman. We are only talking today about a limited number of measures in the fiscal package from the government agreement. We also understand that these are now presented separately to the House of Representatives, but I have already made a point about the related packages. We are now reversing the extension of the low-rate disc in corporate tax and we are increasing the effective rate for the Innovation Box from 5% to 7%, while measures such as lowering corporate tax in the two discs to 16% and 21% are not yet in place or are being regulated. In our view, this must be changed in the future. From the previous debate on this matter with the Minister and the Secretary of State, I would say that they understand this and will also take it into account in the future. Can we hold the Secretary of State to this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the new measures. The capital yield tax is a tax on money which has usually already been paid tax once. In addition, the current system is considered unfair, because the fictitious return calculated is in most cases higher than the actual return that people achieve or can achieve. The coalition agreement takes a first good step: a higher exemption of €30,000 and a more current return on savings. I welcome the increase in the exemption, which means that the small saver will have to deal less quickly with the tax authorities. Ultimately, the measures will reduce the tax burden on savings by almost half a billion euros. As far as we are concerned, the proposed measures are an explicit first step, because ultimately we want to move towards a system based on real returns. We do not think that the cabinet should take three to four years. As far as the VVD is concerned, more steps need to be taken as soon as possible, so: getting to work quickly and not thinking in impossibilities, but looking at what is possible. How does the Secretary of State view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u11	Mr Mulder has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u12	I am surprised to hear that there is a reduction in the burden. Well, I just told you it's a burden increase. That's a bit of a contradiction. So I looked at it, and on page 26 of the answer to questions, including the VVD, the CPB states that there is a structural burden increase of EUR 2.4 billion for companies and that there is a burden increase of EUR 1.2 billion for families and households, every year. The only relief the Minister admits is for foreigners. This is subject to a reduction of 1.2 billion. The burden increase for the Dutch is therefore 1.2 billion. For business, the burden increase is 2.4 billion. And only foreign companies get 1.2 billion relief. How does that fit into the 6.5 billion you call it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u13	In my view, a number of measures have been taken very emphatically by the cabinet to ensure that taxes go down. I am particularly looking at the overall package. This creates a number of purchasing power plates which show that the vast majority of people are simply improving. You can't want to see that. It's okay. You're looking at those numbers differently. I'll see what measures this cabinet is taking. They will certainly reduce the burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u14	The beauty of this wallet is that it's not about how you look at it. They're just solid facts. The government itself therefore indicates that there is a structural burden increase of 1.2 billion. That is what Dutch people have to pay extra. I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u15	I'd like to answer that question with a counter-question. If you look at the measures taken by this cabinet, they will reduce the burden: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u16	My colleague could have just asked me anything. Now she's there, so I'm gonna ask her a question. The CPB states that there is a burden increase of 1.2 billion for households. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u17	I welcome the package that we have concluded with this cabinet, which includes measures to reduce income tax, to reduce corporate tax and to reduce the tax on savings. If you are so happy with the CPB, I also think you should look at the purchasing power cards. You'll wipe the floor with that, too. I find that a very strange reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u18	I'm not asking a question, Mr. Chairman. I know your point of departure, Mrs De Vries. I agree with that, too. I just want to say that the VVD is therefore pleased with the CPB and with 1.2 billion increase. We are not happy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u19	We welcome the reduction in the burden of income tax, savings tax and corporate tax. I think it's good for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u20	Mr President, I shall be brief. The other chairman asked the same question. What actually determines that people are making progress? What are the biggest components in this for Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u21	I think it is important for a lot of people that we adjust the rates in income tax and that we increase the general tax discount, leaving people more in their pockets. We're gonna raise the old-age discount. We also do a number of things on the expenditure side. We are talking about child support and child care payments. I think that it is mainly the middle income and the families who benefit from it. That is also important to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u22	That wasn't the answer I wanted. I say this, but Mrs De Vries might be able to refute that. Is it not true that the autonomous development of wages contributes most to the income growth of the average citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u23	A lot of things are being taken into account. Wage increases are being looked at. I think we should look at the basic principles of the CPB. They've been handled. On top of that are the measures taken by this cabinet. It is true that this is about measures relating to income tax, but it is also about increasing a number of levies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u24	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u25	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u26	I really want to try very hard to do two-way interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u27	Okay, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u28	So very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u29	On balance, what this cabinet is doing in connection with what the previous cabinet has done leads to a burden increase. That must also be clear to the citizens. The main component is simply the autonomous development of the salary for a lot of Dutch people. It's being corrected. As far as DENK is concerned, that should be much more. I am glad, by the way, that Mrs De Vries says that she attaches great importance to the CPB. In the case of the dividend tax, that institution is always dismissed as irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u30	Mr. Azarkan, this is not short. I really want to agree to do two-way interruptions, otherwise this is gonna be a really long time. Make sure you make your questions clear. Then we can have a good debate on the substance and still keep pace with the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u31	On a point of order, Mr President. Is there a time lock on this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u32	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u33	Perhaps one more comment on the CPB and the dividend tax. I think everyone should read what it says. They can't put that tax in their models. However, it says that there are possible effects on employment when it comes to the locational environment. That's what we as VVD think is important. It is about real jobs, about real jobs for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u34	I think Mrs De Vries would have stayed in her story with taxes on wealth. Now I think that our two parties, GroenLinks and the VVD, have very different views on how capital should be taxed. What we share is that this tax must be based on the actual return. I am actually pleasantly surprised by the pace Mrs De Vries wants to make. She calls on the Secretary of State to be urgent: "don't wait too long" and "take new steps quickly." Does this also mean that Mrs De Vries thinks that we should still have a capital tax on the real return during this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u35	I have already indicated that we would be pleased if we were to tax the capital on the basis of the actual return. I think we are indeed very different when it comes to the question of how to do that. I also see the technical constraints that still exist at the moment. I welcome the first step that has been taken, but I would like to follow up as soon as possible if this is justified. I don't think we're gonna agree on the way we're gonna do that. We will be very different in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u36	And that's the way it should be. We are waiting tomorrow night, tomorrow night, for the Secretary of State's answer. I would be pleased if we could put together the pressure on the Secretary of State. We can ask him, for example, to come forward with a review of the capital tax on actual returns as soon as possible next year, at the end of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u37	I said as soon as possible. I am not going to set a deadline for this. I think that the Secretary of State should be given the room to see if that can be done in a responsible way. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that a proposal would be drawn up. I urge him to urgency, but in a responsible way, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u38	I have a question for Mrs De Vries on SMEs. When I speak to SMEs, they are so disappointed that there is so little in the barrel for them. There will be a VAT increase and there will be a tariff increase for family businesses, but that is not in this Tax Plan. In this Tax Plan there is the so-called fare step that is reversed. This simply means that medium-sized companies have to pay a higher tax rate. The question is simple. Why did you mean so much to multinationals and investors with the abolition of dividend taxes and so little to SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u39	Yeah, I think this is a very special one, I have to say. The proposal on dividend taxation is not yet before us. That may be what the whole of the Netherlands thinks, but we don't have that yet. We're not getting that proposal yet. I have also indicated that I am pleased that we can look at this in a comprehensive package. I'm also judging it as a total package. I am looking not only at this one measure, but also, above all, at longer-term measures, for example, when it comes to corporate taxation. The measures we are taking in the area of the labour market are very important for business and especially for SMEs, such as pay-as-you-go in case of illness, but also the right of dismissal. I think your party is less enthusiastic about this, but SMEs are asking for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u40	This is the debate on the Tax Plan. Actually, the whole room was for pay-as-you-go in case of illness. It's nice that this is taken care of. There will be a lot of debates on how this is going to be done. I am now asking about the tax measures. You can make choices in that. You can give 1.4 billion to foreign investors. Then don't tell me this is coming next year. It's coming next year. The VAT increase will also come next year. But you are now taking the step away from the SMEs and the family businesses. I think that's crazy. I am from the Labour Party, but I expect the VVD to be there for SMEs. Mkb'ers will think with me: that party is there for us and if there is relief, they will choose us, because we create the jobs in the Netherlands. It doesn't seem to be. I do not get an answer from Mrs De Vries to the question as to why she made that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u41	Because in the overall package of measures we have also chosen to reduce corporate tax rates. This applies to both the low and the high rates. In my opinion, in the plan you presented, you impose an additional 10 billion. I think you are also presenting higher burdens and higher corporate tax in your election programme. I find that a little difficult to reconcile with the interruption you are making. Of course, everything is fine, and we can also disagree on that, but I am looking at the overall package of measures, including VAT. We're looking at what people get to spend more in their wallets. You have to have a judgment on the whole package. That's how we looked at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u42	It turns out it's very difficult. Interrupts in two. I would like to hold you strictly to that, Mr Nijboer, because the difference of opinion between you and Mrs De Vries is now clear. The point is that we are having a good substantive debate here, but I also think it is important that we keep up the momentum. A brief closing remark and then it is up to Mrs De Vries again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u43	The key issue is that everything is recovered from SMEs. It will receive a vpb reduction, but will then be recovered with a VAT increase, a tariff step and a higher rate, which will be distributed to multinationals and large companies. I find that unreasonable and unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u44	Finally, in response to this, I do think that Mr Nijboer should tell the whole story. In contrast to the VAT measures, we are proposing substantial reductions in income tax. Eventually, it determines what people have to spend in their wallet with that little entrepreneur. We are also looking at the overall package of measures, for example in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u45	When I hear that we have to tell the whole story, I am interested if the VVD also wants to know the whole story about abolishing the dividend tax. How exactly does it work out, where exactly are the benefits? With foreign treasury or foreign investors? And what exactly are the consequences? Wouldn't it be good for the whole story if we had that investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u46	I would, of course, like to answer that question with great love, but I have the impression that we have already had three debates on this subject. I am indeed looking at the overall package. I know that you are not in favour of this measure, and we are also in favour of it, but we are also looking at what it can mean for the location climate combined with, for example, investments in infrastructure and education and lower corporation tax. We think it is important that we are attractive to companies, real companies, where people can just earn their living. We have assessed this in that package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u47	The VVD just sniffed at my colleagues that they wouldn't make good choices. Now we're here to control the government in its choices. Wouldn't it be good for the whole dividend tax story if we had the evidence? Then let me make another proposal. Would the VVD be prepared to deal with the consequences of abolishing the Hills Act, especially for people without property who do have their own house, where the property is in stone, and who, for example, have a small or absent pension, so only AOW, before the debate begins to be sent to the Chamber? Or don't you have to have the whole story?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u48	I do not really want to anticipate the next debate. I can say that it is of course important to understand the consequences of a measure. I believe that Mr Omtzigt has just said that there are really a lot of purchasing power plates and a lot of different models of household. What are the consequences for them? What are the consequences in conjunction with the other measures proposed by the Cabinet? I think that once again the number of pictures will end than you can ask to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u49	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures in the old Tax Plan, to name but a few, namely VAT and sea-going vessels. The VVD is pleased that the Secretary of State has already made an adjustment at the request of the Lower House and has weakened the percentage for ships on the high seas from 90% to 70%. As has already been pointed out in the previous debate, we believe that the overall decision should simply be postponed for a year. I believe that an amendment has already been tabled by D66, partly on behalf of VVD, CDA and Christian Union. The VVD would like the Secretary of State to consult with the shipping and maritime sector in the coming year in order to arrive at a workable solution and, in accordance with the motion submitted, to use the next time to resolve the consequences for the wadden feathers, in particular for the islanders. This is their only connection to the mainland and they often have to use it. The VVD also has an amendment in preparation concerning the increase in gambling tax. The PVV spoke about this earlier. As far as we are concerned, you really have to limit it to a year, as is the intention. The VVD considers it unreasonable that the sector should suffer from delays on the part of the government in legislation and regulation. With this amendment we want to keep the pressure on that decision-making too. Another amendment, as far as the VVD is concerned, concerns the liability of mortgage holders, mortgage holders and executors when it comes to VAT. The VVD finds it clearer when it is recorded that it is about the person who knew or ought to know that there is a tax liability. In our view, this makes the bill clearer. In the previous debate, we have already discussed the provision of information to the Tax Administration in connection with the inheritance tax. Last week there was another case in the news where the information is simply not seen as sufficient or sufficiently clear. It's about losing fees when you get married. Can the Secretary of State address that situation? And can he also see if this information can be improved and made easier to understand? We believe that this is important for people, because they sometimes have to pay back hundreds of euros in surcharges. As far as we are concerned, that is undesirable. I come to the bill Other tax measures 2018. In this bill there are a few dilemmas for the VVD, for example in the repentance scheme. The VVD wants to tackle black savers hard, but doesn't want to make it difficult for good citizens and businesses. It is also a question of removing the automatic suspensive effect in the case of tax resistance. The VVD does not want this to be used for delaying tactics, but does not want people to suffer. I believe that D66 has also tabled an amendment in this area to at least include a moment of evaluation. We are therefore in favour of this, but we are also waiting for the Secretary of State's reaction. Then there's the division into matrimonial property law. The VVD understands the problem that you want to avoid tax avoidance by entering into a marriage. In this way, the gift and inheritance tax can be avoided. But we have already exchanged a number of examples for this in the debate, where there is a great deal of concern about how this is going to work out. In any case, we would like to ask the Secretary of State to monitor how this is going to be done over the next few years, and to report to the House of Representatives on it as well. Can the Secretary of State agree to that? Finally, we are also preparing an amendment to this proposal on the maintenance of the counter-proofing system in the calculation of prevention gains in internal consumption fees. 'Cause we think that makes for more customization. Then I come to the abolition of the VAT agricultural exemption. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for giving more room for entrepreneurs to adapt to the new rules for the transition. It is also a good thing that the Secretary of State is going to see whether the group of farmers that can benefit from the small business scheme can be expanded. This also applies to the VVD in the broad sense when it comes to small entrepreneurs. On average, the users of this agricultural scheme are down 0.6% by abolishing the scheme, but in the case of the sale of horses and services for breeding establishments it may be about 15%. Is the Secretary of State prepared to talk to that group again, to see what these real consequences will be in practice, and to report to the House of Representatives for the next tax plan? I come to the Act on compulsory retention of holding cooperatives and extension of retention exemptions. For the VVD it is crucial that real cooperatives are not affected by this proposal. The Netherlands has traditionally been a country of cooperatives. Many are related to the agricultural sector or are active in it. These are important for jobs in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State has promised to monitor whether real cooperatives will be affected and inform the House of Representatives. As far as we're concerned, that's good. But we would also like to ask that we keep an eye on an overkill that might be included in the measures. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u51	Thank you. Mr Snels has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u52	Thank you, Mr President. We are ready for the finalisation of the Tax Plan in plenary. That had to happen with a little steam and boiling water. But that's the way it is. Tonight we're gonna talk about the Hills Act. In doing so, I have a slightly different assessment of the manner of treatment. However, this legislative proposal has been somewhat compromised by careful treatment. Can I, through the Secretary of State, thank all the finance officials for the fact that all the questions have been answered in an emergency and also for all the help we have received in preparing amendments? It's a big job every time. Mr President, I would first like to make a few comments on the changes to the letter of amendment. We haven't talked about that very much. I will then make a number of comments and also go through the amendments on the subjects contained in the original Tax Plan. Mr President, I will start with box 3. Several parties have included in their election programme a revision of box 3, a tax based on real returns. I just had a debate on this with Mrs De Vries. This was also submitted to the CPB at the time and the CPB keeps saying that this can be done in one cabinet period. In other countries, capital taxes are also levied on the basis of actual returns. The fictitious capital efficiency tax of the Netherlands is unique. And yet the Ministry and the Tax Administration keep saying: it can't be, because we need much more information and it takes a very long time before we might be able to do so. I find that unsatisfactory, for two reasons. The first reason is that the fictions in our tax system, also in box 3, are incomprehensible to people and undermine confidence in the Tax Administration and in the government. The second reason is that in the Netherlands capital, capital is taxed relatively low. Capital inequality, as far as we know the figures, is high compared to other countries, which requires a change in the tax mix and fairer taxes. Now, in written answers and earlier in the debate, the Secretary of State has indicated that research will be carried out in the coming period. Mrs De Vries asks the Secretary of State to make haste with that. That's what I'm asking him. I would ask him to work on indicators for asset development and capacity inequality in consultation with the CBS and the Central Planning Bureau. If we are going to a new system of real returns, we also need to understand more about what abilities actually are for people and then we should also be able to make better indicators for the development of capabilities and capacity inequality. Actually, that part of that same investigation should be the Secretary of State's. I'd like a response. With regard to the concrete proposals contained in the Tax Plan, I regret that the changes were not budget-neutral. It is fine that the duty-free foot goes up for ordinary, small savers, but that could have been compensated as far as our group is concerned by a higher burden on large assets. Why doesn't the cabinet eventually choose to do that? Especially since taxes on capital in the Netherlands are relatively low. Mr. Chairman. In fact, this Tax Plan in Box 3 is now redesigning a system which does not have the confidence of taxpayers and which many in the Chamber believe should be called into question. I will come back to that later, also in the context of the bill to abolish the Hills Act, but that remains an unsatisfactory situation. I come to the gradual abolition of the payability of the income-dependent combination discount and the labour discount. Let me start by saying that I share the concerns of the SGP, the Christian Union and the CDA. They've had those concerns for a long time. They are about the difference in tax burden between one and two earners. GroenLinks has always put the emphasis on increasing the participation of partners in the labour market, and we are still doing so. But from strength and from justice, the difference has become very great. Too big, I'd say. I therefore agree with the efforts of CDA, Christian Union and SGP to reduce these differences. However, I now have difficulty with the somewhat quick decision in the letter of amendment to stop making these discounts transferable. It reduces the difference in tax burden between one and two-earers a little bit, but the effects are uncertain. The Cabinet and the CPB say it encourages people to work more hours, but there is also another effect. For people who cannot choose to work more, there is a loss of income. It is estimated that in 150 000 households with a partner with a small job there is an increase in the tax burden of 1.3%. Then I have to think about all those people who work in care, who do important work but don't have a full working week. What does this measure mean in this very specific labour market where people cannot decide for themselves whether they want to work more? Then I fear there will be fewer people available for this work. That shouldn't be the point. I have considered making an amendment to this, but since the measure does not start until 2019, I have not yet done so. I would, however, like to receive a more detailed analysis of the specific labour market effects from the State Secretary in the coming period. I am not referring to the standard models of the CPB, because I know those effects and I know those models too. I am referring to specific effects on specific labour markets and to whether this could cause problems. More fundamentally, we see that the problems of tax relief are very serious. These proposals make this problem even greater. We need to have this discussion, because it is precisely because of this problem that we need additional allowances and we have built such a complex tax system and surcharge system that people no longer understand. That should be easier. Mr. Chairman. Companies, Innovationbox Vpb first disk; the business package, I'll say, from this tax package. These are the first measures of a larger package. As Mrs De Vries said, the Vpb is going down and the dividend tax is being abolished. You now know what my group thinks of that. Abolishing the dividend tax is nonsense. This debate has not yet been concluded, to put it mildly. And with the significant reduction of the Vpb, the Netherlands is pulling a sprint in the race to the bottom. In the end, that's untenable. It's the start of a tax war. The standard answer of the cabinet is: we do want to compete with our tax system to keep the best locational climate but not a race to the bottom. That answer smells like hypocrisy. Now that we in Europe are finally reaching agreements to combat tax avoidance and broaden the VPB base, we in Europe must also agree on tariffs. Then there are the concrete measures. Previous research shows that the Innovation Box is not the most appropriate instrument to stimulate innovation. Actually, you'd better get rid of him instead of raising the rate a little bit. That would be my preference. Now the Secretary of State says that evaluation is only possible again in 2022. This concerns the evaluation of an impact of a small increase and tightening-up of tariffs. I can pretty much predict what that evaluation is going to say: not much effect. Is it not better to have a broader debate on the locational environment and innovation, with the Minister of EZ, for example? We're fourth on the Global Competitive Index of the World Economic Forum. It's a multitude of factors. The fiscal environment is only a very small part of the location climate. If you conduct the debate in a broader context, then you can also ask how budgetary space could best be used. Perhaps it is much more important to invest in vocational education or livingability, to name but a few, rather than in the Innovation Box. We have asked questions in the report about the reduction of the first disc, the take-off rate for SMEs in the Vpb. There is one theme that concerns me a little bit. That is the theme that could encourage two rates, two discs, arbitration or avoidance. We used to have a very small boarding fee. That was for the really small entrepreneurs. In the meantime, it amounts to €200,000 or €350,000. The Secretary of State says in answers that shifting costs, revenues, profits and losses is not so easy. But it's actually pretty simple to cut up e.g. when you get to that border? And this way, you're avoiding taxes. In the graph with the answers to my questions, there really is a peak in the number of companies with a profit of around €200,000. That's an indication of tax avoidance, isn't it? We often talk about international tax avoidance, but I would also like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State to this form of tax avoidance. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I come to the measures we have already discussed in the legislative consultation. I'll start with the holding cooperatives. GroenLinks supports the proposal to reduce taxation by making holding cooperatives subject to withholding tax on dividends. These structures will disappear, but there will be no budgetary consequences for the Netherlands. What I have great difficulty with is that the proposal is again accompanied by relief for capital, while capital is already taxed very low in the Netherlands. In fact, this is true of any proposal to prevent tax avoidance. It is high time for companies and capital to pay their fair share. It is precisely through tax avoidance that they have paid far too little in recent years for their fair share. We had a discussion in the WHO on extending the exemption for capital companies to third countries. This is a charge relief of 30 million. The Secretary of State says that we are doing this in order to treat cooperatives and capital companies equally. This bill was also subject to unequal treatment. In fact, European law has made that distinction, as far as I understand it, and says that this can be done if those restrictions were already in place before 1993. My group wants to go through with an amendment to delete this part of the legislative proposal. We are going to have a big debate on dividend taxation and then we are going to pick up this debate again. As far as I am concerned, that could also be the answer to Europe. We'll keep that $30 million in our pocket. If it is up to me, this also applies to the 1.4 billion to abolish the dividend tax. Mr. Chairman. I come to another subject: medicines. Then we also have budgetary room for an amendment to the pharmaceutical measure. In the Tax Plan and the amendment proposed, only the funds covered by the Medicines Act are subject to the low rate. I am unhappy with that; I have indicated this before in the legislative consultation. In this amendment, we add the following: medical devices are subject to the reduced VAT rate if they are presented in a pharmaceutical form, are classified as medical devices under the Medical Devices Act and bear a CE mark. The budgetary loss of this proposal is estimated at 12 million in structural terms. Sunburn and toothpaste, the reason why the Secretary of State's amendments are now in the bill, are excluded. That's what I was supposed to do. Then there's income policy. The higher your income, the more you improve in the coming year and in the coming cabinet period. My group has two income-political amendments to this development, one of which, together with the Labour Party and the SP. The first amendment is a common argument. We delete the proposed tariff reduction in the fourth disc and the proposed extension of the third disc. These are small limitations, but with that we can further lower the rate in the first disc. Everyone benefits from that and that brings more balance in income development. The other income-political amendment is linked to climate policy and concerns a temporary increase in energy taxation. We are shifting them to the top rate and to business consumption. We must support climate policy. The burden is increasingly disproportionate for households. This will be an important theme in the coming years. I refer to the new PBL report which shows that large consumers pay little to nothing for climate policy, while households do. That is not a fair and effective climate policy. For now, I propose these minor amendments to the amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the subject of'simplified third-party seizure and fiscal resistance'. I thank the Secretary of State for the letter we received from the Ombudsman through him and for his response to it. As regards the simplified third-party attachment, the Ombudsman states that the present legislative proposal does not indicate whether and, if so, how the Tax Office will protect the debtor's attachment-free foot. In addition, the Ombudsman says that the explanatory memorandum even explicitly states that the attachment free base does not apply to attachment under a payment service provider. The Secretary of State replies that only the procedure changes, not its scope. The foot is therefore no longer protected and no less protected. However, I believe that this remains unclear. Now we know more about the criticism of the Ombudsman and the Court of Auditors. I would actually like to propose that this part of the bill should now be removed from the Tax Plan and included in the legislative proposals that SZW and JenV are preparing. They can still enter in 2019. As far as my group is concerned, it is not the tax authorities' convenience that should be paramount, but the fair treatment of citizens. I see no reason why the simplified third-party seizure should now be dealt with quickly in the Tax Plan. Mr. Chairman. In the case of fiscal resistance, I have an interim solution. I understand that the Secretary of State has made proposals for this, because we see that it is being abused. GroenLinks does not want the burden of proof to be reversed, so the taxpayer must go to court for a suspensive effect, while it is now the tax recipient who has to go to court to reverse the suspensive effect. The tax collector already has many possibilities to undo the suspensive effect. Sometimes the bottleneck is that there is not enough time left for the tax collector to undo the suspensive effect. That's where the "abuse" is. That is why we are in favour of a middle course: the suspensive effect of fiscal resistance will only lapse if tax resistance starts too late, for example two weeks before the deadline. Thus, the citizen remains protected, but the Tax Administration has enough time to reverse the suspensive effect. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to this amendment. Is it feasible? I think this is an answer to the problems the Secretary of State sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u53	I was, however, pleased with the letter from the National Ombudsman, which says that you must take two measures at the same time. I think that's what it's supposed to be now. But I'm still here with Mr. Snels looking for something. I am curious to hear the Secretary of State's response to this amendment. There's cover in there. May I assume that there is Mr Snels to talk about the cover? This coverage also affects another subject. If we can find each other on the content, it would be a shame if we couldn't find each other on the cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u54	I'm sure I'm willing to do that. It is a very small amount: €350,000, I believe. It seems to me that we should be able to find another cover for that if we can find out. But I would like a response from the Secretary of State to the question of whether two weeks is a reasonable period of time and how the Tax Office solves the problems for itself, without making it more difficult for the citizens. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. This Tax Plan is often a mix of measures. It's part of a missionary cabinet. There are measures to be taken. I have said it before, it is crafting a building on which fundamental discussions are needed. I hope the Secretary of State will take the space for that in the near future. In my contribution I mentioned a few examples. I have been seeing lately that we are taking measures to make it easier for the Tax Administration in particular. I certainly recognise that we need to solve the problems in the Tax Administration, but I would see the fiscal policy and the measures we are taking above all as a way of making it easier for citizens. We should put it first, not the IRS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u55	Thank you very much. I now turn to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the old Tax Plan with the new Secretary of State today. We have now discussed this law in two legislative submissions, but there is also a part that has been submitted by this Secretary of State. These are measures which implement the government agreement of the Rutte III cabinet. There are a number of nice measures, such as the increase in the exemption in box 3. This means that you will be able to have €30,000 per person, €60,000 for a couple, without paying taxes. This also increases the exemption from capital before your rent bonus expires. So we make sure that people have more opportunities to build up their own assets. It also states that the IACK and the employment discount will no longer be transferable; that goes in step. They will soon go along with the abolition of the portability of the general tax rebate. Thus the fact that a number of people in the Netherlands had a negative, marginal rate is dropped de facto. If they earned €10, they got €11 income. Although that is of course very pleasant, compared to the fact that other people pay 50% or 60%, this is not entirely the intention. However, I would like to know whether the new design of the IACK will produce any strange effects. Maybe the IACK should look a little different, so that it produces a little more marginal pressure. This also means that older people, who still had savings there we used to have a much higher exemption for old people. Mr. Chairman. A number of corporate tax coverage measures have also been added to the Tax Plan package, such as the increase in the rate in the innovation box and the non-extendance of the first disc length in corporate tax. These measures have in common that they enter in 2018 or are system changes for the Tax Administration. I would like to support the implementation and implementation of the Tax Administration. At the same time, it is regrettable that this does not allow us to treat the measures of the coalition agreement as a single package in their coherence. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the individual legislative proposals. I begin, and that may be striking, with the legislative proposal Other fiscal measures. I have been a spokesperson in the Chamber for a number of years, but it has not happened to me before that proposals for legislation Other fiscal measures, which come back every year, are more important to me than the measures in the Tax Plan itself. I'd like to pass that on to the Secretary of State. What appears to be a technical measure can be very difficult or unfair for the taxpayer. This is the case with the measure to levy donation tax when people opt for a different distribution of marriage property than the 50-50 distribution and thus the least able partner is entitled to the most wealth. The same applies to the cohabitants. At first glance, this measure also seems to be quite sympathetic. My party strongly supports a fifty-fifty split between the spouses. But in this law, that fifty-fifty is calculated in a certain way, and therefore a partner can fall between shore and ship. In the first round, my group noted that it is not wise to include pensions in this approach. This has been restored by a letter of amendment. You could just go through that fifty-fifty distribution if one partner has much more pension assets from the premarital period than the other partner. In that case, if you simply marry in limited or total community of goods and do nothing weird at all, then between all the accounts of the wedding also an account of the Tax Administration on the basis of a donation from one partner to another partner ends up. That's what we're talking about here. The Secretary of State says that he wants to avoid all kinds of difficult constructions where one partner, who is 30 years older, gives 90% of the property in marriage to the partner who is 30 years younger, and makes it a tax structure. But we noticed that with this bill normal things that people do, such as marrying into limited or total community of goods, were at once included. These people were therefore at risk of receiving an extra blue envelope for gift tax on their wedding day; not because they had gotten something at their wedding, but because they had ended up in the community of goods. Of course, we do not want that surprise for normal cases. The Secretary of State indicated in the legislative consultation that we should accept this injustice in order to deal with the intended abuse of a distortion. So I don't agree with that. If a law turns out to be unfair, you have to change it, especially before you can introduce it. I really think it is absurd that people who choose to keep part of their property outside the marital community should be kept private, and therefore not put into marriage, for example because it is a legacy, should pay a tax on it. In order to agree to this measure, I need as a minimum that people do not have to pay a gift tax on assets that are not transferred from one partner to another. I would therefore like to propose an amendment to exclude donations and inheritances without an exclusion clause from the calculation if partners have provided for this in the agreement on terms and conditions. Partners can therefore agree to keep their donations or inheritances private without going into the trap of the gift tax. However, I understand that this is difficult for the Tax Administration to implement because donations are not kept by the Tax Administration. At the moment we are looking at whether another design is possible. I hope that it will succeed, because the proposed measure is unfair to everyone and leads to blue envelopes that no one can really explain. Even with an amendment, the regulation is not flawless. Thus it is assumed that there is a transition at the beginning of the marriage, but it is only the question whether the judge will follow that assumption. A possible levy of gift tax takes place at the beginning of the marriage, while you will only see how the property is to be distributed when divorced. The law is based on conditional provisions of the most unequal distribution. However, if there is a different distribution, the partners will not receive the paid gift tax. I come to my other amendment. I think it is a good idea that the return arrangements for black savers should be abolished, but for the other taxpayers there should be a safe haven. Years ago, together with the Labour Party and the Christian Union, I tabled an amendment to ensure that that safe haven was not unlimited, but for two years. So after you've made a mistake yourself, you've got two years to fix it. The tax inspector must not be on to the error at that time. So it's not something you do at the last minute. I think it is desirable that there should remain a normal opportunity for improvement, so that people who simply find out that they have made a mistake and want to correct their attack can do so without a threat hanging over it. It is only assumed that every taxpayer who corrects is immediately malicious, but let me tell you: a lot of people who simply correct are in no way malicious; they can also have just made a genuine mistake. Not everyone specialises in formal tax law. This may cause taxpayers to fear that the inspector will say that they have deliberately made a mistake or that they have been culpably sloppy. I do not want a taxpayer to have any doubts about this, and I do not want to see the abolition of the return regime leading to fewer voluntary improvements. We shouldn't throw the kid away with the bathwater. The following technical measure, which may have a significant impact, is the limitation of the tax rebates that foreign taxable persons will receive. This is particularly significant for frontier workers. They have to pay too much tax first, they go net back a month, and when they report it, they get the amount back. Especially in the first year, this can lead to problems, because if you have not previously been classified as a qualifying foreign taxpayer, you will not get that tax discount on the provisional return either. I have a legal question for the Secretary of State. The tax treaties with our two neighbouring countries, Germany and Belgium, contain a non-discrimination clause. It states that taxation for non-residents should not be different or higher than that for residents. After the entry into force of the other fiscal measures, taxation for non-residents is certainly different and initially higher. Can the Secretary of State state state whether the proposed amendment is permitted under these tax treaties? Is this perhaps possible to make an exception for frontier workers? I also have a bit on fiscal resistance, but I have heard that my colleague from D66 is going to say something about that too. I'll join you in advance. I can hear my colleagues reacting to this. Yes, a new coalition; it's dangerous! There has even been some contact between the spokesmen of the coalition. The last measure from the other fiscal measures that I am uncomfortable with is the simplification of the third party seizure. I understood during the legislative consultation that the entire bank and savings account is already possible, but the legislative proposal makes the procedure simpler and cheaper. From the outset, my group has indicated that it will only be able to support this measure if the Tax Administration always respects the unwound foot. The measure does not apply until 2019, so there is still enough time to settle it. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if he can promise that respect for the attachment-free foot will be settled before 1 January 2019 and that he informs the Chamber by letter in the six-month report. I am considering an amendment on this point to ensure that there is a provision in the law, so that the Chamber is informed of the state of play before this part of the law enters into force. As I said earlier: if you live on the unwounded foot, it's quite low, namely under welfare level, and you still have some money in your account and you're going to transfer money from one account to another and the Tax Administration is going to seize it, then you can immediately be totally pushed into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u57	In my speech, I suggested that we remove this particle from the legislative proposal for the time being, precisely because, in addition to all the sensible words in the coalition agreement, legislative proposals are being prepared at SZW and JenV. Wouldn't it be much better to include this bill in the same bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u58	There's a second thing, and there's my hesitation. The Secretary of State was a little optimistic about the fact that his thing was cheaper. The letter from the National Ombudsman said: pay attention, it is cheaper for the rich, but the bank can also charge between €70 and €100. I would therefore like to have a comparison of the total costs. I would like to know whether they are lower for the debtor and how they can be opposed. This is precisely the reason why I want that provision in it, so that we can discuss it next year in the context of the measures that then exist in a memorandum on poverty and debt policy, which has been promised by the government in the General Financial Reviews. Mr. Chairman. There are, of course, measures in the law which I consider highly desirable. I am very pleased with the measure on foster care children. This means that the Secretary of State has authority, so that foster parents and their children, who are mistakenly identified as partners after the foster child has grown up, can still submit the application a few years later. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question about the extravagants. The answers to the Parliamentary questions showed that the law to stop paying extracurricular fees did not enter into force until 1 October. Under that law, the services must give the tax authorities the names and probably the SSN numbers of the travellers. We've been talking about this in this house for years. I'm really surprised that we have that law now, but that the IRS says he hasn't received any names and numbers yet. Now, of course, because the law was long overdue, there is another way to ensure that these people do not receive care payments, rent payments, childcare payments, child-related budgets or for which they are eligible. But I'd like that certainty anyway. If it is arranged in another way, for example by stopping it in the meantime, that's fine. But can I have the assurance that people who travel to ISIS territory and voluntarily join a terrorist, genocidal organization will not receive any fees? Has there been any check at any time that all persons on the list of AIVD and STUDY travellers are rightly not publicly checked and that none of them receives any additional charge? If the Secretary of State wishes to discuss other income support measures, such as study funding, I would also like to hear that. I wouldn't want the Dutch State to pay any more €0.01 to these people. I would like a full picture of the current situation. Mr. Chairman. I come to the catalogue price of the lease car; a completely different subject. From now on, the importer must make the catalogue price public. That is the price on which the addition is based. The higher that price, the higher the add-on and the less enjoyable lease drivers find it. Now the importer can pass on to the Tax Administration the price he expects to get for the car. Of course he doesn't want to make that price public, because if you do, you don't have that much negotiating position anymore. Is it therefore factually true that the catalogue price announced by the public will be higher than the catalogue price currently assumed? I have received signals that it is currently common in the market to apply a separate catalogue price for lease cars that is not published publicly, resulting in a slightly lower addition. If the Secretary of State now assumes the public catalogue price for the addition, then the addition will go up. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to see if this is true. If there is cover in this, I would like to use it to deal with the problems of loan assistance, I would also say in the direction of Mr Nijboer. I finally get to the Tax Plan 2018. That too was a legislative proposal with a lot of relatively limited measures in itself, I say in all honesty. The VAT exemption for medicinal products shall be limited to medicinal products with a marketing authorisation. I am pleased that this announcement so far has not led to an abundance of applications from the Medicines Review College. Can the Secretary of State promise that he will keep an eye on this and that we will get a signal if this does lead to problems? The College for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products is about the authorisation and authorisation, which will determine the VAT rate you pay. However, the Medicines Evaluation Board is, of course, intended for the evaluation of medicinal products and is never intended as a tax service. Should it suddenly be used as a tax service, other important work that the college does, namely assessing new medicines, will get in the way. That's why I'd like to keep my finger on the wrist. As far as sea-going vessels are concerned, I think it is desirable that the measure for VAT on sea-going vessels should be postponed for another year, as indicated by the VVD, D66 and the Christian Union. This gives time to see how we can ensure that the connection to the mainland remains accessible and affordable for the inhabitants of Wadden Islands. I'm on corporate tax now. So far, the Secretary of State and I have had an interesting discussion on the double business test for indirect third party financing. I understand the desire to tackle abuse, but I consider it undesirable to create a difference between direct external financing and indirect external financing. In the written answers to the questions raised by the legislative consultation, the Secretary of State gives a wonderful example that screams "abuse," namely to borrow an external loan within your own group. Yeah, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna make it a little complicated, actually, I'm gonna need a flowchart. Then you make a capital payment at a tax haven and then you lend it to a working company. I also refer to the image of the State Secretary's reply on page 6; that makes it much clearer. Now, of course, the abuse element is in the tax haven. Until then, there's nothing to worry about. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this case works when the Dutch e.g. enters into the external loan? Afterwards, the capital injection takes place in the tax haven and the loan to the working company. Is it true that there is direct external financing and that Article 10a does not apply? I am very curious, because this example still calls 'abuse'. You'd understand, Mr. Chairman. It is thus immediately demonstrated that it is fiscally undesirable to treat direct external financing and indirect external financing differently within corporate taxation. Mr. Chairman. Another bill, the VAT agricultural exemption. No, not the Hills Act, that's what we have tonight, tonight, tomorrow afternoon and tomorrow night for. Fortunately, the abolition of the VAT agricultural exemption has now been somewhat relaxed. Farmers using the scheme will be given the opportunity to deduct the VAT on durable goods they have already bought, and they will be given four quarters instead of one quarter. I wonder if there can be some relaxation at start-up, because all these people have to start collecting receipts on 1 January. So, for example, if they do a year's worth, they could use some extra help with that. It's pretty quick for the people. It is very small farms that make use of this. It is therefore not all large professional companies that can quickly convert their VAT. Can that be handled in a coulant manner? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few points. The first is that we are still waiting for an answer to the question of whether we can finally repay mortgages in steps. That you can pay off 10% or 20% of the fine each year; that you can do so every year, but that you can also easily transfer to another mortgage without getting into any problems with supervision. So imagine you have an old mortgage with 6% interest and you get to redeem it in five steps of 20% and you can convert it to a new mortgage with................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ One percent or two interest. Now the people who want to do so run into all kinds of obstacles in the supervisory and banking sectors. And it says in their contracts that they can do that. I still have the point of car inspections here, but I have exchanged this extensively with the Secretary of State at Question Time. Finally, Mr President, the loan assistance. I'm just making a moral appeal to the Secretary of State. The problem with the loan assistance was that you were granted assistance as an independent assistance and that this will be converted into a gift in a later year. That gift depends on whether or not you had income in that year. You don't know that before if you're an entrepreneur. So in that third year, people who have had two years of loan assistance and come out again will receive the other two as a gift to the income. So they have two years' income of zero while they were getting the loan and when in the third year the loan is converted into a gift, they not only have their current income of say €20,000 you may not earn a lot then, because you were in the welfare fund but also twice that gift. So then you have an income of over €40,000 in one go and then you lose all your fees. People will have to pay back all their surcharges in that year, while they only had €20,000 in income. Those people will still be fully taken after they've been on welfare. As early as 2014, the Ombudsman said that this problem is so serious, it cannot be solved within two weeks and it cannot be resolved retroactively. Now it took your predecessor a year or two before it was resolved. It is now resolved for the new cases, but the old cases still suffer. We are receiving very sad letters from former entrepreneurs who are coming out of this difficult situation, who have had cancer or who really just needed that loan assistance and who are now going to be sent back directly to debt relief. That's incredibly harsh. Secretary of State, I'm gonna make an appeal to you, see if you can accommodate these people with retroactive effect for a few years. By the way, you're barely bringing in anything from these people. It's more expensive to push them into debt relief and it's actually out of their debt. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u59	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u60	The Tax Plan 2018. It was a special process, President, because it was still presented during the formation by former Secretary of State on taxes Wiebes and it is today defended by the new Secretary of State Mr Snel. We've been discussing this with each other for two days. For me, it was the first time that I was allowed to speak about taxes. I hope we can agree that the process can be more careful in the coming years, because for new tax laws you have to take the time. I think it would be good for people to be able to prepare for tax measures, but certainly also for the Tax Administration. As far as the latter is concerned, I agree with what Mr Snels said: we should not be pushed into a mould because otherwise the Tax Administration will not be able to handle it. Then we need to be real and take the time to put forward measures and to discuss them well. That is what we are going to talk about this evening and then to look at when it can be introduced. But not: the Chamber must decide because it must be introduced in time. No, the Chamber can make a balanced assessment and then we'll see when it can be entered. In the whole process we started with the old package of Rutte II. On the first day we were told that we would receive seven new measures, that we would be able to respond in writing and that we would conclude here, in this debate. The most striking feature of the letter of amendment was, as far as we are concerned, the adjustment of the capital efficiency levy, the increase in tax-free capital and the better alignment with current interest rates. These proposals relieve the small saver, who has paid too much tax for years because of the absurd assumption that savings can be made in return that savers do not make at all, because they do not invest. This section can be supported by the SP. Earlier, with the tax spokesmen sitting here, but also with predecessors, including my predecessor, we have said in Chamber that you simply have to rely on real returns. In a savings account that is currently a lot less than when you can invest heavily and aggressively. But none of that was possible, because the IRS couldn't handle it. That's exactly what I was talking about in my first sentence. If there are political desires for how to deal with it, but it cannot be because it then gets stuck in the organization, then we are doing something wrong. But back to the proposal. Investors can invest a much larger part of their assets riskily and thus achieve higher returns. We have had this debate for a long time. In this way, the capital return tax imposed in recent years was a real disadvantage for people who saved and had little savings. We are now moving in the right direction and I wonder when the end will be reached, so when we start from real returns. As a follow-up to this proposal, I also have a question about the capital income addition used to determine the own contribution to the Long-Term Care Act, because this is also based on return on savings. If you have capital, it will be added to your own contribution. Now the limit of what power is already very low as far as the SP is concerned. As a result of the 4%, people in a nursing home, a disability care institution and a nursing home have to pay a high own contribution. They often don't have power. If that's in rocks, it's already a big problem. What's that got to do with this? It would be good if the range of this were to be made fairer. There is wealth inequality in the Netherlands. It's crooked. The International Monetary Fund warns about this in various publications. When a small group draws more and more capital, it is good for stock prices but not good for the real and real economy. In 2013, the richest 10% of the Dutch population had 66% of the wealth. So 10% has two-thirds of the power. I have a question about this. What is the government going to do to increase this inequality? I'd like to get a reaction to that. We can see that this adjustment will make it fairer for people with little savings, but we can also see that the most wealthy benefit from adjusting the rates. They could probably get the return on that high power. We see that these proposals in box 3 give a tax advantage to people who have 3 million or more assets, which is accordingly higher than when you have savings. They can achieve that return with their investments. We know that the investments are going really well right now. Wouldn't it be good to bring the millionaires tariff, for example above one million, to 40%? Makes it a little more honest and doesn't get too far out of line. Now the adjustments in box 3 are more favourable for strong assets, and that was not exactly what we advocated when we said that you should rely on real returns. The third proposal put forward by the cabinet addresses major differences in the tax burden between single and two-earning families by gradually abolishing the payability of the labour discount and the income-dependent combination discount. That looks good. We have often said that this difference is too great. You earn €40,000 each and then you pay significantly less tax than when you bring in €40,000 as a breadwinner. The effects in, for example, youth care families, so those who take care of children, are also large. They wrote to us: we often choose to leave a parent at home because we are dealing with vulnerable children who need stability, but we are actually being caught for that. Precisely those effects on that kind of stability in the family, where vulnerable children are taken care of, prompted me to follow up on the example I put to the Secretary of State in which a grandmother took custody of a grandchild and is disadvantaged in all kinds of income-dependent schemes. The Secretary of State has looked into it, for which I am grateful. It is being looked at whether there has been a good deal of action, but that brings me to the question of where people can go now if this is not going well. On the first day of the discussion of the Tax Plan, I asked whether it would not be a good idea for them to come forward somewhere. It concerns very specific cases, exceptional cases, where, if you interpret it wrongly, the consequences are great, whereas in the case of a grandmother having to raise her grandchild because the son or daughter cannot do so, you really do not want the Tax Administration to come up with all kinds of controls, which should concentrate on cases where there is real tax avoidance or tax evasion and not on cases where people keep their heads above water. Would the Secretary of State like to take another look at that? Then where can they go? This is also what the youth care organisations who have e-mailed us are asking, in the sense that it is often difficult tax arrangements and it would be very nice if they had a point of contact through inspectors who know what it is about. I don't know exactly how to settle that in the IRS, but it would be worth a sweet thing to me if we could settle that. The fourth measure is to increase the elderly's discount and to phase out it gradually as income increases. That is an improvement, because with an increase of €1 you can already suffer a huge loss of income, i.e. almost €3,000. Both the Eerste Kamer (Eerste Kamer) and Mr Van Rooijen (Eerste Kamer) have played a major role in getting this adapted in recent years. It's a good thing this cabinet is doing this so fast. It does raise the question why this couldn't be done sooner. Too often it was said: ho, the IRS. Are we sure the IRS can do this right? I'll get back to you on that. Then we see that the Innovation Box gets an increase in profits from 5% to 7%. That's a deal, I think, because D66 and the Christian Union wanted to go to 10% and the VVD and the CDA didn't want to do anything about it. Well, then you're about 7%. I actually agree with the questions that Mr Snels has already asked. We have seen studies that show that the whole Innovation Box does not actually contribute to the innovative capacity of companies, whereas it costs us a lot of money. The Secretary of State is going to give his own fiscal vision, as he promised us. He is now faced with a plan with the signature of someone else and the signature of four parties. He's gonna have to do that quick. Does he also include the Innovation Box in his own vision? If we can stimulate innovation in our country much more intelligently without this cost bearing on tax expenditure and the implementation of the Tax Administration, I would be worth a sweet thing. Then I come to the sixth proposal. We want to go to a smoke-free generation. The SP is happy that we're making the battle for that. We will not oppose the increase in excise duty on smoke. Over the last few years, we have committed ourselves to reducing the number of young people who are going to smoke. In fact, everyone wants a smoke-free generation. I don't know a smoker who says, "I really want the kids from now on to smoke." We want to ensure that smoking is actually dying out, but of course more must be done than just increasing excise duty. Where young people started smoking less, they now start smoking more. We see that the tobacco industry is all making nice packages with which they make some sort of advertising when they can't. So what is this government going to do now to reduce the number of outlets, make sales on the Internet really illegal and maintain the age limit, with a good age verification system? You want to increase more than just the tobacco tax, because otherwise it looks like a smoker bullying and we wouldn't be for that. We would argue in favour of putting the revenue from the tobacco tax increase into an addiction fund. Would the Secretary of State be prepared to set up such an addiction fund, of course together with, I think, the Secretary of State of the United States of America, who is dealing with this? It would be very good to be able to say to the smokers: okay, you pay more taxes, but if you want to stop, we can really help you. In the end, I think we all want to go to such a situation. This Secretary of State has inherited not only the old Tax Plan, but also the Tax Administration. I was just talking about that. Can the tax authorities handle these six changes? How is the Secretary of State going to keep us informed on exactly how the adjustments are going? Because we have been told time and time again that it is barely possible to collect the taxes and that it is all hands on deck with the Tax Administration, but six measures are now coming to an end. Some go in on January 1, 2018, others in 2019, but it seems to me to be a lot. They are all assessed separately as feasible, but is there also an assessment of how it adds up? 'Cause nobody's waiting for a mess at the IRS. I also think it is fair that we in the Chamber know what can and cannot be done, because then we can decide to postpone certain things, not to do them and so on. In addition to the old Tax Plan and the Tax Administration, the Secretary of State also inherits the handling of the tax environment, as it is called, i.e. the Netherlands as a tax haven for multinationals. Then we come into the various measures that are in the Tax Plan or the Other tax measures here today. Today we are dealing with four laws, I think, on the fiscal unit. We have talked about the sustainability or unsustainable nature of the fiscal unit. We say: it is untenable. It's being stretched over and over again. We asked a few years ago, in the process of examining the Tax Unit Adjustment Act, whether the amendment would not be obsolete at the time when the bill was due to enter into force. That seems to be the case. The tax unit has just been adapted and very soon, probably this week, we will have to react with urgency to the tax unit regime because the European judge will decide that it will be discriminatory. Maybe he doesn't judge you that way, but we all expect it. Does that mean that court cases concerning the tax unit belong to the past tense? I hope so. What are we going to do to properly evaluate the repair measures that will follow? I have tabled a motion to review the tax unit regime for once, but the Secretary of State has said that he does not need it very much. If you don't want to evaluate your policy, what are we doing here in the Chamber? As legislators, we are always behind the practice of tax advisers. Also today we can read in the newspaper again how they want to page the Dutch people and the Tax Administration to give rich people as many beautiful constructions as possible where money is somewhere in a trust, where we don't see it. In this case, it is an owner of a phosphate plant in Zeeland. Moreover, we are entitled to participate in the rehabilitation of Thermphos. I don't think it's entirely right, but okay, if there's so much money left in a trust somewhere... but that's another debate. We have such a holding proposal. At my request, we have dealt with this a little separately. At that time it became clear that no party actually feels comfortable with that. We have to do something with it from Europe, because the preference of corporations was not really good, but yes, then we are going to increase the exemption again. There will therefore be a withholding tax exemption which will be increased, which will cost 30 million, but it will also create a huge new way of avoiding tax. I see the tax advisor industry rubbing its hands, because it can now go back to all those customers to see how that tax can dive. I call it "dive," because you can call it "dive," but that's illegal, so they don't; they stay within the law. You can call it "dodge." But you know, people don't understand shit. You're diving taxes. It is then a question of tax that others, who do not use such a route, pay. Actually, I think it's just as bad. Then there are a few separate proposals on ferry services. I have been surprised that there are measures in the Tax Plan that are raiding the field. Game providers, shipping companies and the agricultural sector have expressed their concerns. The Secretary of State did change a few things. The Chamber has also adapted things in the case of VAT on sea-going vessels, which I think is good, but I still miss a serious perspective when it comes to how we deal with the Waddenveer next year. To my best knowledge, we have now postponed it again. We're gonna see how we can do it, but we'll have it back on our plate next year. Is that so convenient? If we all do not want VAT to be levied on ferry services, in this case the ferry service to the Wadden Islands, can we just say that? Then the Secretary of State can go to Europe and say, "I have a difficult Chamber, so just tell me what to do. I do not really think that the crossing from Holwerd to Ameland is a competitive journey between the Greek islands. I do not see so much as a competitive European market. I want an exception to that." That would be good, wouldn't it? The VAT agricultural exemption has now taken a little more time. Farmers said they don't really know how to properly implement the abolition of the VAT agricultural exemption. There's a little more time now, but what do we do if they still get in trouble? It seems good that we meet them, but I think it's actually... Well, okay. I assume the Secretary of State will keep us informed of how that goes. I also hope that he will be able to act in a responsible manner towards the farmers who will be affected by this. Then the energy charges. The first day we talked about the Tax Plan, I brought it up. I also discussed it when we had the General Financial Reviews: what exactly is the situation with regard to the construction of the energy bill? I didn't get an answer. Today I read the report that the increase in the energy bill is not in the CPB calculations of purchasing power. I'll ask the Secretary of State if that's true. If so, then we can get rid of all those purchasing power cards in the trash! Energy costs will rise enormously. It is then thought: they will also descend in humans, because everyone is going to build solar collectors. I can tell you that really not everyone can afford that. Anyway, if we did, we'd assume that energy consumption would go down. We can't predict that for everyone, can we? So how high is the increase in the energy bill now? How does it work in the household picture? If we don't have that in the picture, we're really pinning people a story on the sleeve. Mr. Chairman. According to the Council of State, the inclusion of a former partner's income increase is contrary to the law. I am pleased that it has become 10%, but I am sorry that you can only use this measure if it leads to a minimum reduction in income of 10%. In the future, therefore, there will continue to be situations in which people lose their allowance. I call on the Secretary of State to look at alternatives. Mr. Chairman. It is a choice of this cabinet to put multinationals above people by abolishing the dividend tax and significantly reducing the profit tax. Eventually, people in this country see themselves facing a high energy bill that is not in the purchasing power picture, a VAT increase that we know is affecting ordinary incomes much more than people who make a lot of money and care costs that increase significantly. And then dare to say that everyone is improving! I'm afraid to say it. The calculations run us over the shoes. I would nevertheless ask the Secretary of State to make a different calculation, because SOMO, the Foundation for the Research of Multinational Enterprises, has calculated that 78% of this 1.4 billion dividend tax will reach the foreign tax authorities. That's 1.1 billion. Then I would like to know if the Secretary of State is prepared to put that together for us. It seems to me that's possible. We need to know exactly how that falls down. The cabinet says it abolishes the dividend tax to lure companies here. But isn't the opposite also going on? That you make it easier for investors who want to invest in the Netherlands to settle in the UK, because then as an investment fund you don't have a dividend tax, you don't have to pay that money in the UK and so it falls all the way back to yourself. Doesn't that just give you more aggressive investors, short-term investors that you wouldn't want? That's the thought. Is the Secretary of State prepared to deal with this? What exactly does the Secretary of State think the reduction in the tax on profits will yield? How many jobs will that be and how many investments will that be? The claim that lower taxes lead to high investment does not convince me. Because we don't see it either. We see that there are higher profits that have not led to higher investments. The profit ratio has doubled since 1995, from 10% to 20%. And over the same period, the investment ratio has fallen from 4% to 2% now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u61	Mrs. Leijten, before you go any further. You are now over your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u62	Yeah, it's legislation, so I'm gonna finish it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u63	I know it's legislation. I also know the rules and I know that you have signed up for 20 minutes' speaking time. You're over it by now. So that has consequences for your second term. I just wanted to report that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u64	What exactly does the Secretary of State intend to achieve by reducing the tax on profits? I already asked you that. The profit ratio doubled from 10% to 20% and in the same period the investment ratio decreased from 4% to 2%. Yesterday there was an interesting article in Het Financieele Dagblad, in which a similar conclusion was described. In 1980, the investments of companies and their profits were both about 20% of gross domestic product, and now we see that the profits are 25%, but that the investments are less than 16%. Would the Secretary of State be willing to respond to that? And if he doesn't manage to do that tomorrow, would he at least do so before we can discuss these legislative proposals because that's what it's going to be? The SP chooses people over multinationals. We've already discussed this extensively. But what is so important about that is that we know the truth of the real economy, of the people who work: for the classroom, in care, in safety. Yeah, and the baker on the corner, too. And the baker on the corner will continue to exist, even if there is no major multinational, because people always need bread. The fact that the government continues to link these jobs to investment and multinationals is a false comparison. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? Taxes are an instrument for paying things that are important for everyone and we actually think that the level of your income doesn't matter to have access to them. More and more, we have become a society in which there is a principle of profit, in which you have to contribute. More and more we see people saying: yes, but we actually think that inequality is undesirable; education should be good for everyone and accessible to everyone; care should be good for everyone and accessible to everyone; if you call the police, it should not matter whether you live in a particular neighborhood or in another neighborhood. We're seeing it grow more and more. Taxes are also there to ensure that income and capital differences are not too large. But we still see that in the current measures those who earn much or more are making more progress than those who earn less or less. The Secretary of State could not yet indicate what vision he has on taxes, because he does not come up with his vision until the beginning of next year. We will judge him by reducing income and wealth differences, purchasing power for anyone who is presented fairly, so not something like the energy costs out of it, good facilities for everyone and policies in which people go over multinationals. I'm sure we'll talk again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u65	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg of D66, but we are being asked to suspend briefly first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u66	I'm reopening the meeting. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and all his collaborators for the many answers we have received during the debate, first in the legislative consultation but also in all the written rounds. When we started dealing with this Tax Plan, I remember that this was called a poor policy package. Well, for a poor policy package, we've been talking about it for a lot of hours anyway. I think that colleagues will be adding many hours at the end of the Hillen grant. In any case, it means that the leader of the executive who has spent most of the hours in the Chamber since the new cabinet took office is no longer able to take away the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u68	Mrs Leijten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u69	Mr President, I thought it was a little entrapment to say that 'the colleagues' are going to add a lot of hours to it. Mr Van Weyenberg holds the key. If he simply gives 'the colleagues' more time for analysis, study and consultation on this bill, then we do not have to do so at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u70	On the contrary, I look forward to this exchange of views. Mr. Chairman. Some measures in the coalition agreement have now found their place in this Tax Plan by means of a letter of amendment. I would like to mention a number of them. First of all, I would like to mention the increase in tobacco duty. Mrs Leijten has already mentioned this. Yes, of course, it is not the only measure that will bring about a smoke-free generation, but I think the increase in tobacco duty by EUR 200 million is an extremely important further step. It's a step we've taken before. We're adding something to that now. We will continue to take that step. I know that Mrs Leijten has always liked to discuss this with my colleagues in the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u71	We have often argued in this committee for a fund, so that you have the certainty that, in this case with addictions, certain resources are earmarked and that you can spend it on them. The increase in tobacco duty hurts smokers and is always very sensitive to smokers. Would D66 be willing to think about something that we can say: that we can stop people and prevent a new generation from starting? Wouldn't it be good if we put those proceeds into a fund that we use to combat addiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u72	Mrs Leijten is making a link here. On the one hand, I'm here for this. We also use the revenues to reduce taxes on work and to increase the elderly discount. I like that, too. But I would like to agree with Mrs Leijten that at the same time we must do all kinds of things in, for example, addiction care. But she or her colleague should talk to my care colleagues about this. They know a lot more about that than I do. I would not necessarily link these two things together. The question is, are we doing it in taxes? I would like to agree with Mrs Leijten that we also need to do a lot of things in addiction care. But I think you can do those two things separately. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the increase in tobacco duty, the letter of amendment to the Tax Plan also contains two measures relating to the capital efficiency levy. I'm happy about that. First of all, the tax-free foot is raised to €30,000 per person and €60,000 for a few. This means that 360,000 small savers will no longer have to pay a capital return charge at all. In addition, when it comes to the interest we charge, we will be much closer to the interest that people have actually received. It was a great frustration of a lot of people that they were attacked for an interest rate they could only dream of. At the same time, I am also frustrated by the subject; I admit it honestly. Many colleagues have already said it. My group too would very much like to see a tax on actual returns. That's important because then you're totally in line with the return someone makes on their savings. It is particularly important for that group of savers who have a different composition of their assets than what the Tax Administration calculates as an average. For example, people who have sold their house and who have not invested that money to a large extent in shares, which, on average, is the basis of the Tax Office. This is especially true if you have a portfolio composition that is much more careful, with much more savings than the national average. The assumption is that you can make a lot of money with shares, while you want to invest your money safely in savings. It is indeed unfair. I share the frustration of all the Members here in the Chamber about the fact that we still do not have a working proposal for taxing actual returns, which allows you to look at someone's real portfolio and really see how much savings someone has. We haven't been able to solve that yet. At the same time it is said: if it is not possible, you should not enter it; there are chunks of it. But in the coalition agreement there is a call for rapid action. I, too, would ask other colleagues to ask the Secretary of State: what is the timetable? When's that gonna happen? I'm not gonna call it very tough deadlines right now. I have done this before with Mrs Leijten's colleague. Then we said, in a year's time, a proposal. The experience is that it didn't work out at the time. I hate that, but it's the reality. What is a realistic moment to come to the Chamber with such a proposal? Mr. Chairman. I also welcome the limitation of the Innovation Box and the increase in the effective rate. This is certainly not entirely coincidental between my party's electoral programme and the election programme of Mrs De Vries' party, the VVD, I say to Mrs Leijten. It is, by the way, quite similar to what is now about the average in Europe, I say to Mr Leijten through you, Mr President. This brings me to the original Tax Plan, submitted by the previous cabinet. I would like to start with the VAT on sea-going vessels, and indeed the ferry services to the Wadden and the pilotage sector. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has already made a change after extensive discussion with the Chamber, which means that a ship does not have to travel 90% but only 70% on the high seas in order not to be covered by that VAT. I thought this was a good example of constructive cooperation between the Chamber and the Cabinet, and I think it was also between coalition and opposition, because many of us had questions about this. I tabled an amendment together with the three coalition colleagues to postpone this VAT measure by one year. This is covered by a small, one-off additional increase in tobacco duty. That year, parties will be able to anticipate the new situation. In addition, there is a motion, with Mrs De Vries of the VVD as the first petitioner, calling on the cabinet to engage in talks with the island authorities and the feathers in addition to that year. If it's a fact that VAT is going to come, can we do something for the people on the island who just need those feathers to go to school or work or to play soccer on weekends when they're out? I look forward to a warm reception and decisiveness of the cabinet in that conversation. This brings me to the legal position of taxpayers. We welcome the Secretary of State's commitment in the legislative consultation that the Chamber will be informed about the so-called Guide Recovery of the Tax Administration. I had asked to know exactly how the Tax Administration will deal in practice with people who come to the defence at a very late stage, for example when their house is sold in execution at the request of the Tax Administration. The Secretary of State also intends to take measures to address the automatic suspensive effects of resistance. In so doing, he states that in only 14 of the 868 cases the judge has declared the appeal to be partially or wholly well founded over the last 12 years. That objection is therefore unfounded in more than 98% of cases. This leads to all kinds of costs and I understand that the Secretary of State wants to do something about it, but it is of course to ensure that the good do not suffer from the evil. That is why I have tabled an amendment to add an evaluation clause to this particular measure, so that we hear how it will work in practice three years after entry into force. That and the Guide Recovery seem to me to be two important safeguards. There is also an amendment tabled by Mr Snels van GroenLinks. Apart from the coverage, as my colleague Mr Snels understands, I do not think that is interesting. I think it's an interesting quest how you make sure that people who just want to do this nicely keep that opportunity. I would like to ask Mr Snels about the reaction of the Secretary of State. In the previous legislative consultation, almost the entire Chamber also asked for a response from the National Ombudsman on the protection of the attachment-free foot in bank deposits. Indeed, we must ensure that the unwound foot is properly secured by the government and the Tax Administration. Now the Ombudsman is actually making a kind of appeal to us to allow the measures taken by the Cabinet in the Tax Plan and the other measures related to the better respect of the seizure-free foot to be taken at the same time. If I am correct, the target for both measures is 1 January 2019. That would be provided for in itself, but I would like an explicit confirmation from the Secretary of State. Colleagues also asked if you can't wait for that. How does the Secretary of State see the coherence between these two measures? Because we do need to avoid doing things here that we'll regret later. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go on loan assistance for a little while. Mr Omtzigt has already mentioned this. Co-workers from the CDA and the Labour Party have always drawn a great deal of attention to this. For new cases, this has been solved, but there is still a legacy from the past. I think that many colleagues would like to solve them, but it is not easy and it is also extremely expensive. What is the current state of affairs according to the Secretary of State? Is it still feasible to do something about this? I have also seen an amendment by Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP on the Research and Development Promotion Act. What the hell is going on out there? Two innovation schemes were merged two years ago. This caused concern that the budget could be eaten entirely by large companies. I admit that this concern existed not only with Mr Dijkgraaf, but also with me. Small businesses could therefore be faced with a situation which, because of the lack of money, should reduce the percentage they get to stimulate innovation. That amendment did not make it, unfortunately. In the first years it seemed to go well as well. However, recent figures show that the budget is being over-exploited and that there is actually not enough money left for the smaller companies. So you could opt for Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, with a ceiling and a ceiling. You could also choose to take a closer look at that system. So apart from being curious about the amendment, I would actually like to ask the Secretary of State what you could do in that whole system of that Research and Development Act. Should it be automatic with the economy, which is not happening now? Or are there other ways to ensure that the money will not be available to smaller companies because some large companies are simply taking an above-proportional share? Apart from the amendment, I would simply like to explore it. I do not think that this is necessary, but I think that the issue that Mr Dijkgraaf is dealing with here is a real one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u73	That's interesting. Of course, it would be the best thing for Mr Van Weyenberg to support the amendment. But it's not at all, because it's the purpose that matters to me. And the goal is to encourage as many companies as possible to innovate. However, I think there are only two options. Or you put a limit on the amendment. In addition, we can discuss exactly how to do that, but then you will have to set some kind of ceiling. Or you get extra budget. Or does Mr Van Weyenberg see any other options?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u74	Well, one of the questions I have is whether this is a one-time thing. Because last year it went well, I think we both thought. Looks like there's a problem this year. For example, I want to have a better idea of why we are getting caught up in this year. Is that a one-time thing? Or is that structural? In the end, Mr Dijkgraaf is of course right, because as economists among themselves we can say: it has to come from the length or from the breadth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u75	My picture is that it's structural, but we'll get that from the Secretary of State. We are merely asking questions here. Let the government answer them. Are there any other options? I would also find that an interesting question to the Secretary of State. I therefore propose it, because then I do not have to do so in my term. 'Cause I think there's only two flavors. I hear that Mr Van Weyenberg has no other option in his pocket either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u76	No, I wish. I'm afraid not. But I am curious, with Mr Dijkgraaf, or the Secretary of State who still has the inside pocket. That question was just asked through me, so I should like to make this point with enthusiasm by Mr Dijkgraaf. Finally, Mr President, this brings me to another part of the Tax Plan. At the moment, if you do a gift to a cultural institution, you can deduct it for 125% of the taxes. It's called, with a fancy word, a cultural multiplier. In the Tax Plan it was only extended for the coming year, because the then outgoing cabinet said: we leave further decision-making to the new cabinet. That is good news, because the new cabinet said in the government agreement that the Gift Law will remain, and therefore that cultural multiplier. But it wasn't in the Tax Plan yet. Now there is an amendment by Mr Nijboer, who was so enthusiastic about this that he could not wait. I just love that. With that amendment, he wants to make that multiplier structural right now. My group will support this amendment enthusiastically. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u77	Thank you very much. There is another question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u78	In earlier terms, I made a point of the so-called 'cash circle' with the rent allowance. You buy a house for your child, then ask for maximum rent allowance back, and as a parent you give it back to your child. I want to put an end to that. And I wonder what the D66 group is like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u79	The honest answer is that I haven't quite figured it out yet. For it has something of a construct; I agree with Mr Nijboer. At the same time, you may give to your children. I believe in that principle. And in the end, I think it makes sense that you have neutrality. It shouldn't matter whether I rent a house from my parents or colleague Nijboer. So I'm looking for a way to put it together. In my view, we are also waiting for a further explanation from the cabinet on this matter. I'll wait for those answers. At the same time, I find it difficult. We shouldn't bring a new weirdness into the system. So that's my quest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u80	I understand this complexity, but I am also pleased that Mr Van Weyenberg acknowledges that it also has something of a construction. There are really examples that you think: should we want to do this with taxpayers' money, make donations possible on the one hand, and on the other hand make maximum rent payments out of it? So I hope that I can get Mr Van Weyenberg's answers from the Secretary of State to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u81	With you, I await it with interest, and I also think that whether Mr Nijboer is renting from his parents or from someone else, the relevant factor for rent payment in itself is your own income. So I haven't seen such a two-three solution that fits in with the fact that it shouldn't matter who you rent. But I think Mr Nijboer and I agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u82	Thank you. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Taxes are about fundamental political choices: about justice, about a sustainable economy, about how to tax wealth. That is what we are going to talk about tonight. We have shown with the SP and GroenLinks that you can make very different fundamental political choices than this cabinet makes. We have made a number of proposals in six areas: housing, affordable care, a fairer and fairer tax system and how that could be financed. We have already discussed this in the General Financial Reviews and the General Reviews, and today the Tax Plan is ahead of us. That is not yet an effect of all these choices, but you can already see in some respects the direction the new cabinet intends to take with the additional measures. As far as I am concerned, these are three directions that I do not understand very well: buyers over tenants, multinationals over SMEs, and rich for poor. I think that's all three wrong directions. On those parts, where the wrong direction is being taken, I will put the emphasis on the coming years. The biggest judgment, the biggest word that has remained in relation to taxes after the General Reviews, the Financial Reviews and all those debates on the Tax Plan is the "total package." "You shouldn't take one measure out of it, but it's a total package." I would like to pierce the balloon of that 'total package' or remove the pacifier from the packaging. Because the great promise of burden relief in that overall package is at the heart of tax cuts that would take place after 2021, towards the coming cabinet period. That is the bulk of what is happening: VAT is increasing structurally, the reduction of labour costs is simply being pushed forward. And in the basic path, as it is called, there are also burdens. So, on balance, the burden will simply be increased by 3.4 billion in the coming years. If you look at the structural situation, families will pay 1.2 billion more, companies will pay 2.7 billion more and abroad will receive 1.3 billion euros through the well-known dividend tax. On balance, this is 2.6 billion burdens. To be clear about this once and for all, I would ask the Secretary of State to confirm this. It might help him get into question 100 of the CPB. That's where these numbers are. There is a fog, which I also interrupted Mrs De Vries, in the sense of 'the SMEs are actually improving on balance, because you are picking out one measure'. No, on balance, there is 2.7 billion burdens on companies. "Families are ultimately making structural progress." No, on balance, there's 1.2 billion burdens on families. And abroad is improving 1.3 billion. If you take the whole "total package," these are the consequences of this cabinet's choices. I don't like that one. A very small part of this burden increase is already being used in SMEs, in family businesses. I will table an amendment to increase the austerity of the Innovation Box proposed by the coalition. Other parties, such as the Christian Union and D66, also had that in their election programme. We do not want the higher rate of the Vpb to be applied sooner to SMEs with a family business that is just a little larger. I ask the Secretary of State to take that seriously and to respond seriously to that suggestion. I think the shift in burdens from large companies to SMEs is a wrong choice. I want to fight it on all fronts. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the energy tax. That's already a big tax, but it's getting bigger and bigger. There is almost EUR 5 billion in it. The PVV has rightly asked questions about this. What exactly is it about? How much is this tax going to go up? And what does that mean in practice for people? We got a little half-baked answers back to that. We got numbers and numbers back, assuming that everyone has or will put a solar panel on their roof. That is not fair, of course, and that is not the practice either. You'll just have to sit in a rental house where the housing corporation doesn't, when you have to pay energy taxes. I'm asking the Secretary of State to give the fair figures. What happens if nothing changes? It is not assumed that in three years' time everyone will have solar panels on their roofs. Mr. Van Raan of the Party for Animals is already glowing at the idea, but that hasn't happened yet. That means the energy bill's going up. GroenLinks has made an amendment to that effect. Here too, it is a question of who pays. Is the polluter paying for it, or are the energy-efficient measures being passed on to the citizens? Isn't the affair a little lost? That's the main question. If you ask the PvdA, the polluting companies could have been more affected and the people less affected. We'd like to receive those numbers. Mr. Chairman. I've made a pretty good point of the cuts on the rent allowance. In these times, the coalition is happy and happy to give extra money to all social priorities. We support that. The education, the child care allowance and the Defense Department are getting extra money. Even OS gets extra money, even temporarily. Then I don't understand how there's gonna be cuts on tenants. The Secretary of State has said over and over again: please report to the Minister of the Interior, because it is policy responsibility; I am not about this. I think this is a bad choice. The Secretary of State is responsible for one thing, namely the use or misuse of surcharges. I have held intensive debates on this subject with the predecessor of this Secretary of State. That was about Bulgaria's surcharge fraud at the time. That's what this Secretary of State is about. I have Mr Omtzigt on my side on this subject. I asked Mr Van Weyenberg how he looked at these cashiers to plunder the government. Parents who buy a house ask for a rent in such a way that their child can apply for the maximum rent allowance. You have to think about all that, but you can theoretically do that. The maximum amount of rent payment is received and this is returned. The PvdA thinks that's a real abuse of public money. I'd like to hear what the Secretary of State thinks about that. Does he agree and does he want to do something about it? Mr. Chairman. I have looked at the logical order in which the subjects are dealt with. I didn't get there, so I'm just as logical as my colleagues. I want to put it in a positive form. I'll be on loan assistance. Mr Omtzigt has explained in detail what is going on. I agree with that. He has made proposals for this in the past with my former colleague, Mr Groot. We have made an amendment to resolve loan assistance. But honesty commands that this is not an easy task. I could table that amendment, but it is the PvdA's preference that the Secretary of State should resolve this problem with the cases of previous years himself, as he has dealt with the current cases. The House can do that with an amendment, but it will probably not be the most beautiful form of taxation. We think this is important, so I'd like to see the Secretary of State take care of it. With regard to the attachment-free foot, I agree with Mr Snels and with the Ombudsman's words. He says: you must do it at the same time; you must not take measures that strengthen the government position without having properly regulated it legally. The Secretary of State replies: everything will be fine; don't worry, because I'm really committed. I am happy with that in itself, but the question is of course: why not do it right away? Mr. Chairman. I come to the income-dependent combination discount. Why don't you explain that easily? The cabinet proposal foresees that people who work and get bigger jobs will make fiscal progress. However, the smallest jobs that people who work four or six hours a week, for example in home care, suffer from this. The cabinet says that, on balance, it benefits employment. But the PvdA Group does not yet have the precise feeling and figures as to what this means for the income of people who work four or six hours a week, for example in home care or as a mail delivery provider. There are, of course, a lot of those people, and we have to deal with them carefully. We shouldn't get over that easily. It seems a very technical measure, but I would like to have a sense of what that means for those incomes. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on box three. We support the cabinet's proposal to give the small saver a greater exemption and to bring the real return closer. That is a good thing. The PvdA, like most people in the Chamber, is strongly in favour of taxing the real return. I ask the Secretary of State, as for me, Mr Leijten, among others, when we can look forward to this proposal. We do have one concern: this measure will already generate half a billion euros less in tax next year. That makes sense in itself, because interest rates are very low and we want to tax real returns, but in the future there will be a burden increase. How credible is that? If you pay half a billion less now, you will have to pay more than half a billion more in the future. Is that gonna happen? Is the Secretary of State aware that there will then be pressure from various sides not to increase the yield of box 3 by dozens of percent? How does he make sure that doesn't happen? For in itself, the PvdA Group is in favour of the ability, certainly higher powers, to continue to be taxed. But it should not be used as a crowbar to look forward to a reduction in the mainly higher capacities in box 3. Mrs De Vries is already looking forward to the idea. But I want to avoid that, Mrs De Vries! The ferries. I am satisfied with the one-year delay, as expressed in the coalition parties' amendment. It's just a good amendment. This must be regulated in a structural manner, otherwise we will end up in the same discussion again next year. I say to the Secretary of State, "Try to get out of there, try to compensate the residents." Try to prevent us from having the same debate next year with the same time spent in this Chamber. This leads to the same outcome, because the Chamber simply wants the islanders to be able to reach their care, education and public services. I'll be on the IRS. At the General Financial Reviews I filed a motion to invest extra in the Tax Administration. That motion was rejected; I am a democrat, so I accept that. But that doesn't mean I don't care about the subject. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to consider where control capacity can be increased, for example with regard to tax avoidance, but also with regard to large assets or certain categories of real estate that are frequently circumventing or circumventing; VAT carousel fraud is a major problem. Can the Secretary of State see if an additional investment does not yield more than it costs? And can he inform the Chamber about that? I have prepared a motion for a resolution on this subject, which I should like to put to the vote only in second place, but I would like a favourable response from the Secretary of State to this request. Everyone is being asked for decent contributions and everyone has to pay their taxes, but there are people who don't. So it must be our job as parliamentarians to get behind that. If we can do that with capacity increases and even more, we would be insane if we did not. I would have liked that to be properly mapped out by the Secretary of State. I understand that the same motion will be rejected next week. Because I think, like the CPB, the PvdA thinks it can. We'd be a little crazy if we didn't. Mr President, I will conclude. The PvdA Group is quite critical of the great choices in the field of taxation. This criticism is about multinationals that are for SMEs, about whether there is a fair distribution between high and low incomes and about tenants who are disadvantaged compared to buyers. The basis for this tax plan is one could also say: the backbone........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Think of the income repair for the elderly and beneficiaries, which creates a balanced purchasing power picture. We will therefore support that, but I would like the Secretary of State to respond favourably to the points I have raised. I'll wait and see before I pronounce my final verdict in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u84	Thank you. I call Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u85	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer to the questions. During the first legislative consultation on the tax plan under discussion, I indicated what was important for the Christian Union in the field of taxation in the coming years, and therefore what was important in the negotiations on the government agreement. To sum up, there are three points. Firstly, the revaluation of the principle of carrying capacity. The focus should not be on reducing income disparities, but on reducing tax differences on equal incomes. This reduces gaps in society and makes taxes more family-friendly. Last year, this Chamber considered in detail how extremely large the differences in taxation are with an equal gross income of €35,000. The way in which income is acquired has a very significant impact on the level of the annual tax charge. That depends on questions like "are you self-employed or an employee?', "are you a earner or a two-earer?" And "are you a tenant or do you have your own place?" One can rightly call it a "tax attack," but the other is a grotesque exaggeration. With the introduction of the two-disk rate, the reduction of all deductions to the basic rate, the removal of portability, the other building up of the labour discount and the income-dependent combination discount and a higher child-related budget for couples, the government agreement is a good way to reduce these gaps. All this means that there is a lower marginal pressure between the statutory minimum wage and the modal. And no, it's not ideal yet. See the letters from the hundreds of single-income families. Those letters speak volumes in that respect. To the Van der Stelt family, the Verhagen family, the Van Koeveringe family, the Mulder family and all those other families who have written a letter, I say: we are not there yet, certainly not, but this tax plan with the letter of amendment is by far the most beautiful step in years on the way to that ideal. By the way, I am curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State to the letters from the families and his view of the large gaps in our tax system created by tax rebates and other instrumentalism. Secondly, greener taxes, less taxes on labour, more taxes on consumption and more taxes on pollution, but effective, and certainly not a freaking instrumental use of green taxes such as the pumped-up tax reductions for a little extra employment. In this respect, too, the coalition agreement brings us closer to our ideal, for example the rising CO-minimum price for the electricity sector. And indeed, here too, we are far from there. Thirdly, tackling tax avoidance hard and making business with a lot of debt less attractive and thus entrepreneurship with equity more attractive. The Netherlands must be strengthened as a place of business for real work, and every paper business and construction must be made miserable. As has already been discussed in the legislative consultation, I look forward to the elaboration of the agreements in the government agreement by the Secretary of State. I'm counting on an effective letter before the Christmas ceremony. In short, the tax system really needs to be fairer and also simpler than it is at present. For a fairer and fairer system, a good start has been made in the coalition agreement, but it does not make it much easier, and we must be honest. For this simplification, we await with regret the policy agenda of the State Secretary which will appear in January. I ask him: can he give us a tip of the veil? Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the letter of amendment. Some agreements in the coalition agreement have already landed in that note on the tax plan before us. I would like to point out some striking changes. First box 3 and the increase in tax-free capital to €30,000 per person and €60,000 for a multi-person household, and a more up-to-date calculation of the flat-rate return. Both steps very much welcome the Christian Union. I hope that these measures will help to prevent people from interning their assets through the taxation in box 3. I hope that it will no longer be the case that you will have to start with a great capacity in this country to end with a small capacity, as my predecessor said last year. And by increasing tax-free capital, there is a reduction in the number of taxable persons of 360,000. So that is a simplification after all. This means that 25% of taxpayers pay tax on their box 3 assets; 75% of taxpayers do not. They have a capacity of less than €30,000. Knowing that the richest 1% of Dutch households have 28% of their assets and therefore only 25% are subject to tax in box 3, it is clear that property inequality, other than income inequality, is an issue in our country. Of course, when pensions are counted, the picture becomes less distorted, but still. How does the Secretary of State look at this phenomenon of power inequality? What contribution does the gradual phasing out of the Hills Act contribute to reducing power inequality? Mr. Chairman. About all the groups in this house look forward to taxing capital on the basis of really enjoyed returns. It's been mentioned before. The note makes it clear once again that this will remain future music for the time being. That's a shame, of course. I have two questions. What steps is the Secretary of State going to take to bring taxation closer on the basis of real returns? What possibilities does the Secretary of State see, in addition to the measures contained in the coalition agreement, for improving the flat-rate capital return tax in such a way that it is even more likely to be taxed on the basis of actual return? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the non-acceptable Schouten amendment (34552), No. 45). Last year, Secretary of State Wiebes described this non-acceptable amendment as "the most beautiful amendment he should have ever dissuaded." It is now carried out by an agreement in the coalition agreement. It is clear that the Christian Union Group welcomes this. Since the general tax rebate is, unfortunately, gradually no longer transferable from the not or least earning partner to the most earning partner, it is of course only logical that the labour rebate and the income-dependent combination discount should no longer be transferable. That transferability could no longer be explained. However, we still have to wait another year for the reduction in the rate associated with the Schouten amendment, namely a lower rate in the second disc. But with the arrival of the two-disk tariff in the next Tax Plan that will be settled. All in all, this measure has the rare combined effect of a smaller gap between one and two earners, less marginal pressure and more employment rates. It is clear that my group is keen to see such measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u86	Mr. Chairman. Today, the gradual phasing-out of the Hills Act seems to prevail. But the fact that the hated cliff disappears from the elderly discount at an income of over €36,000 is at least as big news. To date, as an AOW'er, an income increase of €1 on the edge of the cliff suddenly caused you to fall back over €1,200 in old age discount. The agreement in the government agreement increases and gradually reduces the elderly discount. As a result, almost 2 million AOW beneficiaries are making progress in 2019 with an average of €240. However, the phasing-out rate is 15% high and the problem of cash-in, which affects 28% of the AOW beneficiaries, is not small either. The question that arises as a result of both facts is whether a better measure is conceivable, for example by starting at a lower income point with the phasing-out and making it less steep. Would this have a positive impact on the problem of cashing out or is it purely for older people with an even lower income? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u87	Mr. Chairman. I do not know whether Mr Bruins is going to be taking part in the mega-debate on the 'law Hills', as he calls it. If he doesn't, I'd like to hear from him now why he calls that a "law."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u88	No, we're not gonna talk about the Hills Act. It's gonna be her turn later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u89	I'm definitely going to talk about it and I'm at the debate. I'll explain why I call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, my group will be happy from a higher effective rate in the innovation box from 5% to 7%, or rather: the location box, because this box does not have much to do with innovation. Broadening the basis in the Vpb in exchange for tariff cuts is exactly the strategy that my group is in favour of. The increase in tobacco duty, as has already been mentioned, is also a fine measure. We want to see a truly smoke-free generation as soon as possible. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, we are not only talking about tobacco but also, of course, weed, but that aside. However, my group is concerned that the basic rate of the two-disk tariff is already acting as a closing point. The Secretary of State is already announcing an increase from 36.93% to 36.95%. That is a minimal increase, but my group is nevertheless putting its finger on this principle. Why does the Secretary of State choose to use the basic rate as a closing point rather than the tax rebate or excise duty? Is he prepared to look at other items from now on than the basic tariff as a closing point? I would like to touch on a single subject from the tax plan originally submitted to this Chamber, namely the agricultural regulation. My group is not happy with the deletion of the agricultural regulation, there is no proper motivation. A system that we have so fortunately removed from the coalition agreement is the problem of terms of trade, which seems to be the cause. During the WHO, I argued in favour of mitigating measures. Some of them have been taken over by the Secretary of State, but we're not here yet. That is why I am announcing a motion to allow a one-off VAT return per year in 2018 for the current users of the agricultural regime who think they need it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the technical briefing on the ghetto benefits for Jewish child labour victims in the Amsterdam ghetto. In that technical briefing it became clear to me that tax exemption is not possible, because in fact we are redefining the term'sustainable income', and we are destroying the tax system very much. I am considering a research motion asking the Cabinet to examine whether there is any possibility of compensation outside the fiscal sphere. Mr President, that concludes me. I can say that I look forward with confidence to the Secretary of State's first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u92	I was surprised to hear Mr Bruins say that he objected to the first disc as a closing point. I have already drawn attention to this in the Financial Reviews. It is in the coalition agreement, although it is in a footnote, but it has been worked out in a staff note from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u93	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u94	I'm glad he's worried about this. Can I count on his support if we organise this in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u95	No, he can't, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that using that disk as a closing point to resolve deficits should not be a principle when it comes to what the Christian Union stands for. In that case, we would much rather see other instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u96	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u97	I fully agree with that, but in the coalition agreement, in the finance minister's staff note and in budgetary policy, the burden framework says that the first disc will rise, for example, if nominal premiums are not included in the care. I'm unhappy with that, too. So I think Mr Bruins, hearing his story, would agree with me that this should be resolved in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u98	In the last few weeks, enough has been said about melons and I'm not going to add a new melon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u99	No, I don't think so. Thank you. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u100	Mr President, I have the same question to Mr Bruins as I had to Mr Van Weyenberg about the abuse of the rent payment. If you buy a house as parents, receive a huge rent allowance and then pour it back. Does Mr Bruins agree with me, Mr Omtzigt and other colleagues that we should put an end to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u101	The pumping around of money is never good, but in this case I want to see what answers are coming and what the cabinet wants to do. But I look with a sympathetic eye at all kinds of measures that have a combined effect, which we all look at with some frowning eyebrows.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u102	Thank you. I look forward to the benevolent attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u103	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. It is good to hear that Mr Bruins of the Christian Union is going to make a huge effort and welcome the greening. Our contribution to the 2018 Tax Plan has the theme "Climate change, green the tax system and allow the polluter to pay." The climate summit in Bonn COP23 has once again shown that these three elements are closely interwoven, with broad agreement that climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing us, while the amount of COin in the atmosphere increased to record levels in 2016, as reported by the UN. So it is good that the Netherlands has increased the ambition in Bonn to reduce CO emissions to 55% reduction. Now this cabinet would not be this cabinet if there were no conditions, namely that there should be a leading group. But at least it is a good sign that the ambition has been increased. It is, of course, alarming that the Planning Office for the Environment should report after a report that much more needs to be done. Last Friday it published a comprehensive report in which it analyses the fiscal greening possibilities. In particular, I would like to base my contribution on this. It also leads directly to the first question to the Secretary of State. Does he agree with the rest of the world that the three-stroke climate change, greening tax system and polluter pays are closely linked and that greening the tax system and polluter pays can substantially contribute to the CO reduction targets? I'd like a response. This cabinet also leaves a number of opportunities. The increase in the tax on landfill and incineration of waste is easy and at limited cost feasible by 2018, as has been shown, but the choice has been made to postpone it until 2019. I'd like a response to that. The introduction of a minimum CO price in the electricity sector does not start until 2020. Why so late? After all, the present cabinet has already almost left. Perhaps the Secretary of State could encourage the Minister of Climate Policy to do it earlier. I'd like a response. Then there are the irresponsible subsidies and exemptions to the fossil industry that are fully maintained up to €14,000 per minute. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? I know it's not his wallet, but the taxes will hit him. The question we would like to ask him is whether he agrees that these fossil subsidies do not contribute to the reduction of CO. Then there is the tax on the noisy and polluting aircraft, while the alternative, a flight tax, will only be introduced by 2021 according to the government agreement. That is only when the other measures have failed. The question then is, of course, whether the Secretary of State can indicate, in the latter case, exactly which measures have had to fail to introduce the flight tax. This is shortly before the planned departure of this cabinet. I see a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u105	Yes, but I would suggest that you move on, if you don't mind. Let me see. Mr. Van Weyenberg interrupted once, I see. Mr. Van Raan, you don't want to interfere, otherwise they will seize every opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u106	That's true, but I trust your hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u107	Yes. Mr. Van Weyenberg, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u108	I understand your struggle with the agenda, Mr. Chairman, so I'll be very brief. I do not quite understand the question put by the honourable Member. I think this is clearly stated in the coalition agreement. We are looking at a tax on aircraft noise, and we are looking at whether we can agree on this in Europe. And if that doesn't work, then we will introduce it ourselves through VAT if necessary. Honestly, I kind of like it. First of all, we are going to see if we can finally tax kerosene in a European context, but we are already saying that if that does not work, we are going to do it anyway. Isn't that a wonderful example of trying to do something internationally first, but taking your own responsibility if that doesn't work? So I don't quite understand the confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u109	I understand the question. You could take such an attitude of "we're gonna do this first," and if we don't, we're gonna do that." But this subject, airplanes and aviation pollution, which has just been the subject of another report, is so great that we do not have the luxury of waiting, rather than dealing with it right away. Here's the thing. We read in the coalition agreement that will only be started when this cabinet, as planned, is about to leave again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u110	Finally, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u111	I have a rather close experience with this paragraph, and I read it in this way. It says that we always introduce this tax in 2021, so it was simply introduced by this cabinet. But we would rather finally tax that kerosene in Europe, so we are going to charge VAT on it. But I think we're allies in this. That's actually the call I want to make, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u112	I am glad that Mr Van Weyenberg is so quickly satisfied with what the cabinet is doing. We say that there is no reason not to do this already. So let's do it now, because it's not like we have a lot of time left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u114	Thank you. The coalition agreement states that polluting behaviour is priced. We hardly see that in the Tax Plan. Large consumers, who also emit the most CO, benefit from energy tax advantages due to the charging structure. Looking at the first and the last disc tax rates for gas, I see a factor of 20 in between. And for electricity even a factor 191! If you want to align the rates and at the same time keep the tax revenue neutral for electricity, that would mean that the largest users would have to pay 100 times more energy tax per kilowatt-hour. This indicates how big the difference is between what small consumers pay and how big the benefits are for large consumers. The 2018 Tax Plan also maintains the exemption for large consumers. Why is that? Maybe a reflection on that. Actually, it gets worse. Research carried out by the 2016 Plan Bureau for the Environment also shows that households and small businesses pay more than twice as much for natural gas and electricity in terms of energy consumption as the environmental damage they cause, while large consumers pay up to five times less than the environmental damage they cause. Tata Steel, Shell and DSM pay relatively least, the lower incomes relatively the most. Why should the families sponsor the big business, Secretary of State? I would like a clear reaction, which may go a little further than "it's a balanced package" or "it's a total package, which you can't mess with because otherwise everything will collapse." I'm sure this Secretary of State can give a better answer. In our view, therefore, the current choices cannot be explained. The opposite is always better to explain, namely: the more you pollute, the more you pay, both absolutely and relative. It is clear that, in addition to tax advantages, such as the reduction of corporate tax that this Chamber has talked about a lot, large companies also have huge energy tax advantages. That may be nice in the closer economic domain, but does the Secretary of State agree with us that the current tariff structure does not lead to a reduction in CO, and that the polluter pays principle, let me put it this way, has not been properly applied in the current tariff structure? And if not, how does he intend to use fiscal resources to meet the climate and CO objectives of this cabinet? Of course, he may also say: I do not really think that this is a task for me; I am waiting for the assignments of my colleagues. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement is a good step towards better balancing electricity and natural gas tariffs in relation to CO emissions, but that is only for the first disc and not for the other discs. Why is that? It is very strange that the government has forgotten to apply it. That, or she's just afraid of big consumers of natural gas, who suffer from this. It is also strange that the energy tax is based on gas or electricity. From an environmental perspective, electricity and natural gas are not homogeneous products. You don't know how they're won or how they're cheered up. The environmental damage caused in terms of CO per unit depends on how electricity is generated or natural gas is extracted. That's what we call the input base. Mr. Chairman. The more you use, the less you pay. It is not clear how the energy was generated. So we're proposing two things. If the aim of this cabinet is to pay the polluter, we actually think that this should be able to coincide, it is obvious to move towards a progressive energy tax and an input base. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? It doesn't have to be tomorrow and we don't have to debate it all night, but does the Secretary of State agree with us that these are two good measures and that you should also come here to really green up? It could also be a good measure to reward green businesses, large or small, in the form of a reduction as they use cleaner energy based on input. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then about the VAT. The general VAT increase proposed by the cabinet is disturbing, as last Friday's PBL report states. This leads to so-called market failure, because both polluting and non-polluting products and sectors are treated in the same way. Does the Secretary of State agree with this reasoning of the PBL? Thus, in terms of the government's objectives for climate and CO, it works market-distorting. Does the Secretary of State share the reasoning of the PBL and if not, why not? If he does share them, why are healthy products such as fruit and vegetables subject to the same tariff as polluting and unhealthy products such as meat and dairy? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Good behavior must be rewarded and polluting behavior discouraged. That's why you have to differentiate with VAT. It is in our view an incredibly missed chance that this is not the case now. Again, fruit and vegetables are becoming as much more expensive as meat, dairy, train tickets and cultural tickets, including those for concerts. But there's as much as possible. You may not know, but I will tell you that in the past the Party for Animals has always been committed to getting fruit and vegetables exempt from VAT. We're gonna keep hammering on that, too. But that is a European matter. Is the Secretary of State prepared to fight for this in Europe? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. At this point. Within the European VAT Directive, it is possible to introduce an additional second low VAT rate. It's possible. Some four or five countries in Europe have already done this. Then you get a second low fare. That can have a minimum of 5%. This is enshrined in the European directive. Should the exemption for fruit and vegetables not succeed, is the Secretary of State prepared to introduce a second low rate of 5% and put fruit and vegetables in it? So that is a direct question and I am curious about the reaction of the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Meat production has a disproportionate market failure, as pollution costs are not included in the price. It accounts for between 11% and 14% of total CO emissions, regardless of the scandals and animal suffering. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that this market failure can also be reduced through pricing? By putting meat consumption at the normal 21% VAT rate, we have not calculated this yield, but it has been calculated in an amendment, which the 'amendment service' has done for us, for which EUR 1.2 billion, thanks, which can be used for many purposes, such as the reduction of VAT on fruit and vegetables and on recovery services. All kinds of charities can be served. In addition to obtaining returns, steering behaviour is the goal of taxation. Your Prime Minister has said that many times. Greening and making the polluter pay are extremely important. In our view, therefore, it is also essential to address climate change. Our proposals take the social costs of pollution into account for those who caused it and not for the average taxpayer. That is fair and clearer and directly contributes to a positive change in behaviour. That's just advantages, and that's what we're waiting for. Ultimately, it is more competitive and fairer, which means that it is not the short-term financial gain of companies that comes first, but the social and sustainable profit for everyone. If we can agree on that today, much has been achieved. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u115	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u116	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I welcome the Secretary of State in dealing with this first tax plan for him and, incidentally, for me in this Chamber. In the Senate, I've been through two, but this is new to me, as it is to him. We are discussing the 2018 Tax Plan of the Demissionary Cabinet and a letter of amendment with six proposals; initially it was seven but one of the proposals was finally converted into a separate draft bill that we are discussing tonight. We have tabled five amendments and the sixth is coming, so we are still waiting. I would like to start with the purchasing power for older people. I am not going to go into it in detail now because it has also been discussed in the General Financial Reviews, which also applies to the figures of the Central Planning Office on purchasing power and that of the Nibud, but I would like to point out here that we have major problems with the position of the previous cabinet, Rutte II, but apparently also of this cabinet, Rutte III, that if pensions are not indexed, it is not the task of the government to compensate for the decline in purchasing power by not indexing. I would like to say here that we absolutely do not support this statement. After all, the cause of non-indexation, moreover given the ECB's policy which is the main cause of this, is ultimately the financial review framework, which I mentioned in the Senate, 'financial future broke'. If you have to use artificially low interest rates to calculate the level of cover, the consequences can be predicted, namely a dramatic decrease in purchasing power by systematically not indexing pensions over the past ten years and also over the next ten years, as everyone knows. It is, of course, rather cynical to note that previous Cabinets and also the new Cabinet are increasing the labour cut to a more astronomical level, i.e. the specific tax cut for workers. I am not going to go into that in detail, even because of the time. However, I would like to say that the reduction in working hours is already costing EUR 18 billion, read the Court of Auditors' report, and that in the next four years there will be a further EUR 1 billion linked to the increase in the statutory minimum wage, which amounts to EUR 250 million each year. No one sees that, but they get it every year, which they've been awarded. However, older people are not indexed for pensions, while workers receive a net return of 250 million per year through additional indexation. So in four years, that's 1 billion. On top of that, the labour cut is structurally increased by another small billion. So that 18 billion goes to 20 billion. It is said that there are a lot of workers in the Netherlands. That is also true, but in the Senate I already had it calculated, that if you turn the 18 billion of today's labour cut of over €3,000, into a reduction in disk rates, the famous wedge, and you limit that 18 billion to the workers, the disk rates can be reduced by 5.5%. That would be much more honest. Why do I think that doesn't happen? If you had reduced the disk rates for the workers by 5.5%, you would have had to do the same for the elderly, for the AOW'ers, and that's what this house wants never and never. I think I'm clear. What is more, the result of the reduction in working hours of 18 billion today, and 20 billion later, is as follows. On the basis of last year's figures and following a question I asked in the Senate, I can tell you what the effective rate of the AOW contribution for the workers is, so what the non-AOW, the workers actually pay. You can guess. I'm not gonna ask around here. I'll get you out of the dream right away. The replies show that this cabinet has now confirmed that the effective AOW contribution payable by workers is 5% to 10% for the workers, the workers. For the self-employed, this is up to €30,000 0%. This means that the self-employed pay only over the last €5,000 AOW premium. So they get the AOW for free, but they get it at the same time. Well. You have noticed that older people who have paid 40 years of AOW contribution can and must wait two to three years and finally seven years for their AOW contribution. I wonder whether the Secretary of State would like to take this overall view and come back to it in future policy. In any case, we shall do so with great determination. In order to complete the picture, before I come to the amendments, I would like to highlight the various forms of tax age discrimination, including in this house. It started under Rutte I with the sudden raising of the income limit for the care premium, the income-dependent care premium. It was raised overnight at one time. It looks like the Hills Act from €33,000 to €55,000. Only pensioners and self-employed persons pay the income-dependent care premium. I have to say that the income-dependent care premium paid by the employer at the time was still taxed, but soon thereafter became unpaid. Then I come to my second point, the Law on standardization of wages. It seemed practical, also for the Tax Administration and Administrations, to exempt the employer's contribution to the care, which was thus taxed. For this purpose, the rate in the first disc was increased by 4%. But now it's coming: it was also raised as secretly for the non-employed, the pensioners. For them, the first disc rate was also increased by 4%. That led to a great uprising and anger of the elderly, which, I think, is not comparable to the present one, but I leave that in the middle, because that remains to be seen. As a result, 50PLUS arrived at 23 seats within two months. 23 seats! When the elderly feel unjustly treated, they get angry and show it. What else did we have in between? The forest tax. I'll come back to that later. The forest tax initially meant that the elderly had to pay the full AOW premium on their AOW and on their income. Bos didn't get that.It was called the forest tax: with Bos you're screwed, but then there was a very small broth in the formation: the sneaky, accelerated shift of the elderly from the second to the third disc. The 65-plussers go to the third share rate rather than the workers. That is a vulgar age discrimination, which the previous cabinet did not want to do anything about and neither did this cabinet. Even worse: the second and third disk disappear in the new disk system. One would think: then you cancel the forest tax; by definition it automatically disappears. But people are making sure that the forest tax is maintained. With the new, extra disks for the elderly, that mess just goes on. As a rule, I express myself quite civilisedly, Mr President, but I cannot find another word for it. We've had the income-dependent care premium, the forest tax and the Wul. Then we come to the fourth blow. It is all very recent that the elderly were given: the abolition of the elderly allowance, two years ago. It was an additional exemption in box 3 for people with a very small income. With an AOW plus a small additional income of €14,000 you got the full elderly allowance, but at €18,000 it was already gone. That happened overnight, and it also raised 200 million. That's it. That's it. That's it. That was done at once, without any transitional arrangements. At that time we warned that this would also reduce the fees, because then you are suddenly wealthy for the Tax Administration. "Because you're wealthy," they say, "we'll also take a piece of your fees." We warned you about that. We are two years away and now the cabinet says: we have to correct that. So those fees are going up again. Then I come to the drama of the elderly discount. In that sense, it is a tragedy that when I entered the Senate, Finance, I think, had a secret agenda against the old-age discount, which was going to cost a lot. The employment discount cost 20 billion and the elderly discount cost perhaps about 2 billion. The Empire thought that was a waste of money, so away with the allowance for the elderly! Two years ago, when I came to the Senate, they started doing this, by simply reducing the old-age discount from €1,040 to €960. $80 went off. The elderly discount for the wealthy elderly, for which the border was at €35,000, was brought from €150 to a tip of €70. Then get rid of him, I'd say. That's all happened. Then We made a great banging out of the Senate. Together with the group chairman here in the Lower House, Henk Krol, we have been to the Tower. That led to nothing. Eventually, the result was once again that the elderly never get anything permanent that the elderly once received an increase in the old discount of €240. That seemed €240, but that was net of course €160, because first €80 was taken from you. So we got structural €80 less and once €240 more. Who makes up this tax policy, I wonder? In the end, a year later, it became clear that a temporary reduction in the old age discount could not be reversed. This would have dramatic consequences for purchasing power. I had also predicted Rutte: if you do it temporarily, next year you will have the need to extend, otherwise the purchasing power picture will thunder a year later. In the end, the elderly discount became €240 permanently. The elderly discount has even been increased. They said we should stay away from 50PLUS a little bit, otherwise they'll start talking about that number again. Yeah, we will, of course, if that's what it takes. Then, fortunately, this year's old discount has been raised again. In what is now before us, our desires for the elderly discount are finally being met. The motion of 50PLUS was supported by the opposition, but also by the CDA. By the way, the CDA was still the opposition back then. That motion was accepted and is now being carried out by the new cabinet. Finally, I would like to make two comments on this list of problems for the elderly. I'm just saying, last year there was 5 billion tax cuts. That went almost entirely to the workers in the end and the elderly got almost nothing of it. It was a permanent tax reduction of 4 billion to 5 billion. When we talk about financing less quickly or not speeding up the increase in the AOW age, some say that this is priceless, but a year ago we gave 5 billion to the workers. Of course, nothing is available to the elderly. I am not talking about the elderly who have been 65 years, but about the 50s and the 40s. They know that they get a year, two years, three years, four years or five years later AOW. That's x times $10,000. Stand on it! Finally, an incomprehensible argument: because older people do not pay an AOW premium, the Tax Act contains a first-order tax age discrimination. However, the general tax rebate, which seems to me to be for everyone, is twice as high for workers as for pensioners. For this reason, some whizzkid has made up the following argument: if the AOWs pay only half of their taxes and contributions in comparison with the workers, then we will also simply cut the general tax discount in half. And that while the workers do not pay the full AOW premium. They're not paying a quarter. The workers therefore pay 5% to 10% of the AOW contribution, and the elderly receive half a general tax reduction, because they do not supposedly pay 18%, which does not pay any workers. Do you still get it? I certainly don't. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the amendments. We've filed five, and the sixth is coming. The first amendment I would like to mention aims to increase the elderly discount by €360. We have also indicated a cover for this. I've already told you the whole story about the old-age discount. It should be brought down first and it should perhaps be abolished, but fortunately we are now in a path where that structural increase is made step by step, which at least leads us a little towards the reduction in working hours. However, the old-age discount is still less than half of the employment discount, which is €3,400. The elderly discount is €1,500 to €1,600. The second amendment is a very nice amendment which, I think, builds on a fine step of the cabinet. So I'm gonna compliment the Cabinet here. I'm not a big fan of that. Mr Bruins (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Bruins on his excellent report. Mrs Leijten also mentioned it. Those groups have said: can the trap of the elderly discount, as Secretary of State Wiebes called it, please be removed from the table? If you got €1 above the limit of €36,500, €1,300 net was taken from you. Thanks to an extra deductible gift of €1 you could get the entire oldage discount again. So you got €1,300 as a gift. I was led to believe that it was impossible for the Tax Administration to fix that. Of course, they didn't want that. I know it will take a year to adapt the computers, but if we had asked for it two years ago, it could have been introduced last year. Now it's happening. It doesn't seem to be a problem at all for the computers and the systems. My mother would say, where there is will, there is a way. That will wasn't there. So the road wasn't there either. Your predecessor Wiebes has honestly acknowledged that this was a trapdoor. He also used other sculptures, for example those of the ski slope that is very stylish, of which you just fall down. This is now being repaired with a gradual reduction in this old age discount. As far as we are concerned, this gradual phasing-out is not enough. That has already been pointed out. The Bruins already did. The elderly discount is now being extended from an income of €36.000 to an income of €48.000 and 15% is being worked with steps. Well, here we go again, Mr. Chairman. What is one doing for the elderly? The elderly discount is therefore subject to: large steps, quickly at home. There's 15% going off every time. So this is done in six or seven steps, while working with 3% steps for the reduction in working time. Moreover, they are now being increased to 6%, but it remains that the reduction of the old-age discount is much faster and that it is going to zero rather than the labour discount, which, moreover, goes to zero even with a much higher income. That great difference remains. Fortunately, however, this phase-out has been set in motion. And once there is a phasing-out, you can also improve that phasing-out by not letting it stop at €48.000 but, as we propose, at the border at the highest rate: roughly €68.000. Of course, we have another cover for that. Then I'm going to a very spicy amendment. That's a little something, but very important, for two reasons. Firstly, it is an amendment which improves the existing Hills Act. The second thing I have to say here is that this amendment I tabled is similar to the one the CDA tabled in 2013. They already saw that something went wrong in the Hills Act. I'll come back tonight to how that all came about, but the CDA had flawlessly noticed that there was a mistake in it and then wanted to fix it. That was not possible with the Motor Block Party of Labour/VVD at the time, but I think the CDA deserves me to table the amendment now. I would also point out that the CDA, in the person of Omtzigt, in a different role, asked the opposition role in the summer why it could not be repaired. I would actually like to help the CDA to do that by asking for our support for this amendment. It costs €1. It costs a little more, but it costs €1 less increase in the employment discount. So you're talking about practically nothing: it's rising from 1 million to 5 million, I believe, which can be structurally covered by reducing the employment discount to €1. It goes up by hundreds, so that's very modest. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the forest tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u117	No, Mr Nijboer, I will not allow any interruptions. You have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u118	Clock's still ticking!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u119	Yeah, I'm sure you can spare one second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u120	No, it's gonna be 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u121	A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u122	I just want to know if I need to pick up my supplies. I was wondering if Mr Van Rooijen had already started filibustering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u123	No. No, I have already reduced my speaking time from 45 minutes to 25 minutes. So I can assure Mr Omtzig that he will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u124	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u125	He was already getting angry about the fact that I'm talking for ten minutes at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u126	Oh, no, I'm not mad at you at all. I was just wondering if I could get my supplies...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u127	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u128	... my lemonade and booze and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u129	No. Thanks for the tip by the way!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u130	Excuse me for a second. Mr Van Rooijen had given up 75 minutes' speaking time, but he used 30 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u131	Yes, that's for your peace of mind today, tonight and tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u132	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u133	Mr. Chairman. The forest tax is, of course, a big play. We all know how it came into being. The AOW'ers had to pay 18% premium, which they had done for 40 years, to eventually get AOW and thus no longer pay a premium. The CDA always strongly agrees with 50PLUS on this point that the AOW is a public insurance and that the premium ends when the AOW enters. I think we should stay. I hope to see it as long as I live. 45 years ago, when I was Secretary of State in the Den Uyl cabinet, some parties tried to tax the AOW. Luckily, that hasn't happened for 45 years. This would mean that the AOW's retired would lose their entire net AOW or pay 18% more on the supplementary pension. You're gonna have to dare. Anyway, there's been another broth: the forest tax. It meant that only the older people would walk faster from the second to the third disc. That may be a bit of a wrong word, but you know what I mean. As I said, the introduction of two discs would automatically eliminate the forest tax. The forest load floats between the second and third disc, and that second and third disc is not there anymore. That's what they did at the Catshuis or I don't know what they thought at all, except that they thought: if there's anything favorable for the elderly as a result of those drives, then at least we're not gonna do it. So that consequence has been covered up by not talking about it. You don't read it at all in the coalition agreement, but the forest tax has just persisted and is going to take more and more money from the elderly over the next 20, 30 years. The Planning Bureau calculated in the pass-through, but I had already done so: this is 0.3% of the national product in 2060. The older ones are thus reduced over 2 billion by the sneaky forest load. As long as I'm in this Parliament, I'm gonna fill in on that every year. I now come with an amendment to permanently abolish the forest tax. That thing really needs to get in the trash. We're talking about something that shouldn't go in the wastebasket, but that forest tax really needs to be removed. This is pure tax age discrimination. There's a law on inflation correction. It was introduced in the sixties by the father of the current Minister of Justice, Ferd Grapperhaus. That inflation correction law states that if you come up with indexation in higher disks because of inflation and inflation compensation, you will not be pushed to higher disks as a form of automatic theft. In the seventies, when I was in the cabinet, we had inflation rates above 10%. That would have meant that all the income on a express train would go to the next drives. Forgive me for the metaphor "speed train"; you'll come back to it, too, tonight and so on, and so will I. That inflation correction was a fantastic law by Grapperhaus of the De Jong cabinet to protect the citizen from some kind of sneaky cheek of the tax collector. That's what happened, but what do we do with the Bolasting? We now have inflation correction for all taxpayers, but not for the elderly. Older people are a different species, a different kind of people. They have other rights and other obligations. We are taking away the fundamental right to the correction of inflation. That's what happens secretly. No one can see that either, because in the annual report of the Tax Administration, you don't see anything about it at all, unless you look closely at the tables. Then you see that the 65-plussers go to the third disk rather than the workers. I think that is a scandal and I will fight for the Bolasting to go off the table. It was one of my predecessors, by the way. We also have cover for this. It will be discussed with the amendments later. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna join the old folks' allowance. I already announced an amendment on the elderly allowance, which was abolished two years ago. You see, we're doing our homework basically. Things that need to come back must come back and things that need to be abolished must be abolished. We're always for one thing or another. It's yes or no, and there's no middle ground, as far as we're concerned. The elderly allowance must be restored for people with very small incomes. I mentioned it: €14,000. That's AOW with $4,000. Those people don't have a pension. They are self-employed, farmers or middlemen who have sold their business or shop and therefore have a piece of free capital. If incomes of up to €14,000 were not at all at all 2.5 tonnes of capital, this 2.5 tonnes was exempted for the elderly allowance. That was abolished at the time, and that made 200 million. We'll just take it away from the elders. At that time, we warned that those surcharges would go down, because you're accounting and for the IRS you're suddenly loaded with 2.5 tons. After a two-year reduction in the allowances, that has now been restored, but that is not enough for us. We now want the elderly allowance to be restored. It now starts at €14,000 and stops at income of €18,000. Those are really super low incomes. This group of €14,000 to €18,000 will again benefit from the elderly allowance in box 3. If that exemption goes up, the consequence will be that the correction of the surcharges will no longer be necessary. We also have adequate cover for this. You would not guess it, Mr President, but I am almost at the end of my speech. Mr Omtzigt thought I would speak for five quarters of an hour. He was allowed to assume that, but it's much shorter. We'll have another change later. I would also like to point out to him that he was one of the first to advocate the problem of cashing out in general and for older people in particular, with regard to the general tax rebate and the elderly discount. Due to the higher old age discount, €600 to €700 more than three years ago, the problem of cashing is only getting bigger. That is also stated in the answers. 28% of the elderly cannot fully redeem the discounts and the average proportion of the elderly discount that cannot be paid is 13%. Those are pretty shocking numbers, aren't they? We will have to think about how we can solve the problem of cashing in general, and that of older people in particular. Mr. Chairman. I come to the increase in the power exemption in box 3. Of course, we welcome this. At least older people have saved up a little longer and sometimes even more need for it. We would have preferred it to be even higher. That's something for the next few days to talk about and think about. We also welcome the recalculation of the return, but I think we should consider together whether there should be a separate additional exemption for savings accounts for those who have only a savings account and hardly any interest. Then you can think of an exemption of at least tens of thousands of euros, which you can stop by saying it applies to, say what, people with a separate savings account up to €50,000. And in order to prevent that from being a trapdoor, let it gradually drop to €70,000 or €80,000, if necessary, to zero. So an additional savings exemption on top of that of €30,000 we now have. Because in the letters and e-mails we get and also on the street and in my environment I read and hear in the first place that nobody understands that pensions are not indexed. But what they don't understand at all is that if you have a savings account, if you've lived economically and you've saved up for your old age, for your care expenses, you're not only gonna get zero interest on that, but you're gonna get a negative reward because the Tax Administration just pretends to get a decent interest rate on it and so you're gonna come out seriously negative. Mr President, I would like to end by saying that this is a subject which I have some reservations about, and that is the taxation of ghetto benefits. I'll take a sip. I and my colleague Mr Bruins also drew attention to this in the first and second legislative consultations. At our request, we had intensive consultations, closed consultations, with the most concerned officials of the Ministry of Finance. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the willingness to go deep into that. That has been a intense and long discussion. I had asked questions about this before. We have received a detailed presentation from the Treasury, which has led us to the conclusion that, unfortunately, it is not possible to make an exception for the ghetto benefit by means of an amendment that we had already had prepared. After the presentation, we are convinced that it is contrary to the principle of capacity, that it would lead to unequal treatment and that it would lead to precedents for other benefits for people who are also victims of extreme conditions. I do not need to give you any examples. The budgetary consequences are considerable and, of course, this also weighs into account. My group has accepted this with a great deal of pain. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u134	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP. Then Mr Azarkan has the floor and then there is a short dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u135	Thank you, Madam President. When I look at the tax plans of this Secretary of State, I see quite a lot of measures that we are positive about. But one thing stabs us in the throat like a bone and it won't surprise you. That's the problem around the single earner, the gap between one earner and two earners. Fortunately, I have already heard several colleagues on this subject. Over €7,000 a earner misses: €1,400 due to the non-transmissible general tax reduction, which is still running, €3,200 due to the labour discount and €2,800 due to the IACK, the income-dependent combination discount. Mr Van Rooijen has just said that all this leads to higher rates. 5.5% I think he mentioned. So the question is whether all this makes sense. Are all these benefits that go to two-earned people helping to boost employment? We have asked people in preparation to put their story on paper. That's why we have these letters, which I have here with me now. Our goal was actually 150 letters. Because we would have had one for every MP. We also put them in mailboxes yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u136	You're not gonna read them, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u137	I'm about to tell you. I'm not gonna read them to you yet. But I am thinking of getting Mr Van Rooijen to read them all when the Hills Act is being dealt with. No, I see in the hall that Krol doesn't want it. But knowing Van Rooijen, he doesn't care. So our goal was 150 letters. We also had questions available on Facebook and Twitter. After 24 hours we have said to people through these media: don't do that, stop, because we have plenty of them. But the power kept coming. Until today, they're coming in. They're still coming in. We've got 720. I have considered reading out the names of the people who have sent a letter, but I would ask you, Madam President, not to be filibustered, to include this list of names in the annex to the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u138	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u139	If you take those letters to you, the conclusion is that it doesn't make much sense, that it doesn't actually make sense. There are three groups. There is the group of those who want to be two-earned, but can't. A lot of letters are about that. This includes, for example, people who are ill. There's a letter from a man who fell off a dock. His wife has worked hard and hard for many years. She works paid and in the family. They see all kinds of benefits for two-earers. Yeah, they'd love to be, but the guy's at home and he can't. There's a woman with ALS. The letter comes from Gerbrand and Petri. Walking and talking is no longer possible, the hand and arm function is completely disabled. They themselves write: "Because we and others are trapped in this system, we make an urgent appeal to the House of Representatives. The key lies with you: think of us." This tax incentive does not work for this group. He doesn't feel right. It doesn't make sense. Then you have a third group. Those are those who can work, those who want to work, but those who do not work but who are going to work because of these tax advantages. I have 720 letters here; zero of this group. It's kicked ass in the last few days. We have done the necessary things in the media, but I have not spoken to anyone who says: pay attention, these tax advantages are very important, otherwise it would not work. I don't believe in it either. If I ask my 21-year-old daughter why she is going to work, her answer is not "income-dependent combination discount," "work discount," "general tax rebate" or whatever. No. Why is she working? Because she wants to do something good with her life. That's it. We don't live in 1970, 1980 or 1990 anymore, do we? Isn't it 2017, with very responsible citizens who make their own choices and take their own responsibility? Then why such a bad system at this point? Madam President. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to those letters. I'm not going to ask him to read all those letters between now and the answer, because that's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u140	We can do that later!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u141	But then the Secretary of State will no longer have any answers to your questions. That would be a shame, too. But he also has officials who can read that. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to look at these letters in particular when the hecticness of the first few weeks has dropped and he is preparing the new tax system next year. Take it to you and realize that these are the ordinary, very normal Dutch people for which this cabinet wants to be there. Is the Secretary of State prepared to narrow the gap between a two-earner? Is he willing to come forward with a letter with possible options to do so before the summer? Our ideal would be for family income to be the starting point, as with the surcharges, as with capital and as with the mortgage interest deduction. 'Cause that's where we do it. So it's possible. In fact, we do it almost everywhere, except on income. Then we really have strength in the family again. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u142	Mr Van Rooijen. Short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u143	Yes, Mr President, I can ask a very short question because Mr Dijkgraaf asked the Secretary of State a moment ago: what are we going to do about it and when and how? I fully support Mr Dijkgraaf's speech for the sake of clarity. We were talking about the elderly later, but one of the biggest discriminations is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u144	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u145	My question to Mr Dijkgraaf is how he thought he would deal with this, but at the time I wanted to ask that question, he asked the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u146	Then you wouldn't have to interrupt. Please continue, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u147	I didn't want that to be my question to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u148	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u149	I like the support. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u150	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u151	Finally. I have tabled two amendments, one on broad weather insurance. It's a little smaller compared to this, but that's our regular job too, and it's important for the people involved. The broad weather insurance applies to agriculture. There's insurance tax on that. It is intended to make it possible to fall back on under extreme weather conditions, but relatively little use is being made of it. There has been an evaluation report that says: actually, those premiums are too high. In other countries exemptions from the insurance tax also apply. It'll only cost a few million. The farmers are already struggling enough, so I would ask the Secretary of State to look into that. Of course, we have also provided cover for the amendment. The second is about the Wbso. I do not really have to say so much about that anymore, because we have already shared this with Mr Van Weyenberg by way of interruption. I believe that the relevant questions have been asked, so for the sake of short, in view of the fact that we are still going to have a comprehensive legal procedure with each other. Then there is the VAT agricultural regulation. We are very opposed to that. However, there is some delay built into the whole story during the treatment. We welcome this in itself, but it is a net burden on agriculture of 22 million. That is why we will be voting against this bill. Finally, I would like to hand over to the Secretary of State these 720 letters from a earner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u152	Thank you. And thank you for taking the rest of the evening into account. I appreciate that very much, Mr Dijkgraaf. Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u153	Mr. Chairman. We're in a hurry. A lot has already been exchanged by my predecessors. I'm the last one to close the first term. Today we are discussing the 2018 Tax Plan and a number of other legislative proposals. We have a package of several hundred pages of oral and written reports. Taxes and money continue to captivate us. Including the seven amending notes, there are more than ten different items on the agenda. I would like to confine myself to the most important issues in the eyes of the DENK Group. Of course, we do not escape the government agreement and abolish the dividend tax. This issue will not be removed from the political agenda for the time being, although the coalition would very much like to do so. Of course, this can be done, but the coalition will also have to step back and correct this failure as quickly as possible. In the treatment of the Income Tax Act until the gradual phasing-out of the deduction due to no or low household debt, I will deal with the Hillen Act. That treatment is scheduled for later. I had a fleece blanket bought, and I brought a thermos bottle. I'm ready. The abolition is now better known as the "remuneration penalty." People who have done their best to settle their mortgage debt will face a 30-year series of tax increases from 2019. In the eyes of DENK, the house is an annoying tax anyway. The possession of a house is seen by this tax as income, whereas it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u154	Unfortunately, I have to intervene, because this is about the law that we will be discussing later. You really need to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u155	I'm working on my own house, so I already made the crossing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u156	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u157	You have to pay for your own house in the Netherlands if you have your own house. That's 0.75%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u158	You don't have to explain that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u159	I'd already made the crossing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u160	Yeah, leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u161	A house is living space, as everyone knows, and a house costs money. So you pay taxes on something that only costs money. Another annoying tax is the box 3 tax on savings. It has already been appointed by my colleagues. Between 2001 and 2016, the Tax Administration assumed a fictitious return of 4%, whereas in reality, mostly less than 1% was paid. People find this not only annoying, but also unjust. The fictitious return on savings has now been adjusted to 1.63% in 2017 and 1.3% in 2018, fortunately. Another irritating tax is the tax on fruit and vegetables. VAT goes from 6% to 9%. That's a 50% increase. In tax theory there is the principle of the least pain and the principle of the least irritation. Some taxes, levies and premiums are more painful and irritating than others. Does the Secretary of State know these principles? I can see him smiling. If not, can the Secretary of State examine a number of taxes, levies and premiums from the Netherlands on these two principles and make proposals to make the Dutch tax and premium system less painful and less irritating? Some of my colleagues have already spoken about the Innovation Box. This is a scheme for a reduced tax on profits from innovations. The rate of the Innovation Box goes from 5% to 7%. The DENK Group welcomes this. In any case, we have doubts about the usefulness and necessity of this regulation. After all, it is difficult to determine exactly which part of the profits comes from innovation or a patent. The PvdA member called the Innovation Box a "slap in the face of the ordinary taxpayer." Is it true that an evaluation of the Innovation Box shows that half of the tax benefit is converted into spending on innovations? Is it conceivable that the rate of the Innovation Box will be gradually increased to the rate of corporation tax, i.e. to 16% and 21%? The Innovation Box could then be abolished. I'd like a response. The tax savings involved could be spent on expanding the Wbso. Is it true that this Wbso stimulates innovation and research and development much more effectively and is therefore less controversial? Please respond to this proposal. And is it also true that the Innovation Box also includes taxrulings? These are now heavily under discussion. That is a nice little bridge to the next topic that the DENK group wants to address, namely taxrulings. These taxrulings are currently big in the news thanks to the Paradise Papers. I must say that it is incredibly difficult for Members of Parliament to obtain information on this matter. Every now and then, we're helped by journalists, because they publish something like the Paradise Papers. Then suddenly you see that there is much more possible. How does the Secretary of State feel about making all taxrulings fully public or giving MPs access to the contents of that taxrulings? Is it true that no less than 800 of those 4,000 have not been established in accordance with internal rules and have not been submitted in advance to the special ATR team of the Tax Administration? In Trouw of Monday 20 November it said that there are many more rulings; about 10,000 in the last five years. Is this true? And is it also true that these 6,000 additional rulings will not be exchanged with other countries, something we have committed ourselves to? Then why isn't it happening? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. And is it true that the Dutch Tax Administration makes about 2 billion euros through these rulings, but that other countries miss out on a multitude of tax revenues? Can the Secretary of State also indicate how much? The DENK Group is very keen to know about the latter. It is a measure of the international solidarity of the Netherlands. Tax avoidance via Dutch constructions can be seen as a form of reverse development cooperation. The Netherlands should not want to rake in a relatively limited amount over the back of other countries that cannot miss this tax revenue. Can the Secretary of State mention a concrete amount that other countries miss out on because of trusts and other constructions that facilitate the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to the dividend tax, one of the weakest links in the government agreement of 10 October. Many countries around us have a higher dividend tax than the Netherlands. Belgium and Germany apply a standard rate of 25%, France 30% and Switzerland 35%. Why, then, does this cabinet choose to reduce the dividend tax as a means of improving the business environment? We talk all the time about 1.4 billion development money for foreign multinationals and foreign shareholders. In an article on Follow the Money, a calculation was made, net cash, showing that we're throwing together about 43.75 billion. On the basis of the average interest rate on outstanding government debt, 2.28%, this is even 61.4 billion. Does this price tag justify the preferential treatment of big business by the Rutte III cabinet? In 2012 Marx Rutte was discussed in connection with the introduction of the income-dependent care premium, now we can talk about Das Kapital Rutte. With Rutte you can go all the way, left and right. The government agreement also states that the government intends to introduce a withholding tax on interest rates, royalties and outgoing cash flows to low-tax jurisdictions. Is this some kind of new dividend tax? Or is the old one maintained for a number of countries? Can the Secretary of State clarify this? In any case, it doesn't reduce the regulatory burden, which the cabinet also wants. The cabinet has indicated that the Netherlands is not a tax haven. The denial phase is still not over. As I said, helping companies that pay less tax in their own country is a kind of reverse development aid. It is also contrary to international solidarity. It is a good thing that the new cabinet is going to do something about letterbox companies that are only in the Netherlands to be able to pump around tax-free millions. The withholding tax mentioned above should contribute to this: taxing unwanted behaviour. Why is the proceeds of this new dividend tax for tax havens actually estimated at €0? And it wasn't until 2023 when the cabinet left? Doesn't the cabinet itself have any confidence that this will pay off? Or is the passage in the coalition agreement merely a sham? Isn't this going to lead to real deeds?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u162	Very briefly, Mr. Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u163	This is a weird accusation. There's gonna be a withholding tax to put an end to that transit. The Central Planning Office expects this measure to be so effective that it might put an end to it, so that we may not even get a levy. And then Mr Arzarkan says that the measure is not working. The reason why a zero yield has been estimated is that this measure is so effective that it could simply end all this transit. And that, in my view, is exactly what drives Mr Azarkan and I.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u164	In my view, this indicates that these companies are only here for one reason, namely because they pay virtually no tax here. They're here to avoid taxes. You must admit that these companies do not contribute to our economy and therefore do not look at the locational climate at all. These companies have benefited from this for years. It should have been abolished a long time ago. It is very sad that these companies are actually going to get their asses kicked if you are going to levy a tax on them. They therefore do not contribute in any way to the locational environment and its maintenance. That's sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u165	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u166	I think this is pretty surreal. We are putting an end to the transit that Mr Azarkan is asking for. Indeed, these companies do not pay taxes here, at least in the most effective case, because we are putting an end to that transit. And then Mr Azarkan says, "Fai! Now I really don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u167	I'll explain that to you. We would like the companies sitting here to pay a fair share and contribute to our locational climate. You're turning it around a little bit. It is too sad for words that these companies are actually only here for one reason, namely because they pay virtually no tax. It's been facilitated for years. So we shouldn't want that. I think it would be better if these companies were to actually undertake here and, on that basis, also contribute to our infrastructure, our education and other elements of our good locational environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u168	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u169	What would the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State think about introducing a new dividend tax for tax havens first and then treating the abolition of the old dividend tax in the Chamber, and of course not the other way round as the cabinet now wants? Mr Pechtold of the D66 Group, Mr Van Weyenberg, discussed the introduction of withholding tax on financial flows to low-tax jurisdictions on 15 November in the debate on dividend taxation. He indicated that the proceeds would first go to 545 million, but then back to zero in 2023. We were just talking about that. But the 545 million referred to by Mr Pechtold is neither in the coalition agreement nor in the CPB's accounts. Is that true? Do those numbers make sense? What are they based on? Why was the tax revenue set at zero in 2023, as I already am? What does that say about the effectiveness of this measure, or is it absolutely effective because these companies leave the Netherlands immediately? The DENK Group is against unwanted tax competition in a race to the bottom. It is more likely to achieve a harmonised tax base and rate at EU level for corporate and dividend tax at least. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. Around 2002 this was already discussed at EU level, in the so-called Primarolo working group, because of the introduction of the euro and the likely tax competition between countries. Now this tax competition suddenly seems to be getting a huge boost, through our own cabinet. We're starting that race to the bottom, and of course we shouldn't. But the question is also, of course, how the abolition of the dividend tax should contribute to countering tax avoidance with letterbox companies. One would assume that there are again wrong companies that aim to pay 0% dividend tax coming to the Netherlands. If these companies aren't gonna do business here, they're not gonna contribute. On the one hand, we want to burden unwanted behaviour, but on the other hand we are going to reward it again. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the repentance scheme. It should be abolished by 1 January 2018. That seems a very good point of principle, because why would you give tax sinners the chance to return to their sins, albeit against a higher criminal fine? On the other hand, it is just a question of whether this will not throw away the child with the bath water. 'Cause what's gonna happen to the black savings that's hidden somewhere? Possibly now it only goes deeper into the dark web of the shady tax havens and it never surfaces again. Then it only leads to further loss of tax revenue. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how much tax money this principle is going to cost the Netherlands. It's kind of weird. The Netherlands stimulates tax avoidance through tax rotations, but refunders who want to start paying tax again are not allowed to do so. Perhaps a return scheme for politicians and bad plans that they have devised would be more useful. I am referring, of course, to the abolition of the dividend tax. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State again to come back to that. It's better halfway back than all the way down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u170	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-22.u171	The follow-up to this debate will take place tomorrow. For now, I'm suspending the meeting.
