ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported in the defense of their bill in box K by Mr Van Zonneveld, a member of the PVV group. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the legal proceedings. Today we are discussing the whole process of dealing with the bill. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. There are people who are still hoping for an Elfstedentocht and there are people who think spring is coming. We are looking a few months back or perhaps another ten months ahead of the next Sinterklaas party and the next debate that will undoubtedly follow. Whether we submit a law here or not, the debate will not end there. The fact that this debate is taking place is in itself a good thing. We share from my group and from my party New Ways the concerns that the proposers raise here. The festival of Zwarte Piet belongs to the Netherlands and the Dutch tradition. Let that tradition be a guiding principle. People who have a problem with that will really have to adapt to that tradition. This is without prejudice to the fact that nothing is completely established and that things are allowed to develop. I would therefore like, in the reaction of the proposers, whom I naturally congratulate on their proposal and all the hard work, to hear how they look at popular traditions, which you never want to fully record in time. After all, was this the ideal reflection in 1600, in 1800 or ten years ago? How do the proposers look at a certain degree of development, without causing any damage to the nature and character of the party itself but giving room for any renewal? After all, there is no harm in the latter too. The authors have put aside many, perhaps even all, criticisms of the Council of State. Can they say again why they have put aside these criticisms on a number of points, for example with regard to the enforcement of the bill, or why there is no enforcement paragraph? Should we not pay more attention to this? Apart from the delicate subject and the social commotion, in this case, as co-legislator, we will simply have to consider whether all this is in conformity with the requirements of a law. With regard to the question "what is and what is not?" I took a short trip. Maybe it's nice if the authors of the bill reflect on that. I believe that my colleague from the VVD, Mr Rutte, had to do with this example when he was still a spokesperson on culture. That example is about cultural heritage, but in the built environment. Upstairs in Friesland a mill burned down, the mill of Burum. According to the Ministry, the mill was not eligible because the materials used to rebuild the mill were no longer the old-fashioned, traditional building materials. The building would lose too much of its authenticity because of the reconstruction. Can the proposers reflect on such criteria, which are apparently used in relation to the permanent cultural heritage? It seems that something can suddenly lose its tradition and that it is no longer part of the cultural heritage. How could this discussion be shifted to this discussion? After all, I very much agree with the proposers: if a popular tradition really threatens to be lost because there are too many intruders and because there are too many people undermining that tradition, it is, of course, scandalous that we should use the police at children's parties. How can we further strengthen protection, perhaps borrowed from other areas, in this law? I think we in this House should be aware that this discussion has been sparked by a very small group. In my opinion, only Amsterdam and Haarlem no longer want the celebration of Black Piet and Santa Claus to be celebrated in the way it is celebrated. I can mention headlines from regional newspapers in which pontifically says that the party should simply be celebrated as we always did. If you see that, how big is the threat? Is a law then the appropriate answer? I would also like to hear from the proposers whether their prescription, for example Black Pete, is exhaustive. Or do they leave room for change too? Finally, a comment on the cabinet. We have often learned that it is good to make a development a development. In this context, I would like to receive a response from the authors of the bill to the fact that the Minister of Social Affairs has been involved in this discussion and has brought parties together, in fact, in order to ensure that, as he has literally said, the minority decides what the majority should do at this party, namely to step away from it. How do the proposers view this attitude of the cabinet? At the same time, as they want to lay it down in a law, the legislators do not give room to the cabinet to opt for such a political stance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr Monasch is right to say that it is a very small group that has stirred up this whole hate campaign. That is not the biggest problem in itself. The main problem, as I have read it, is that this law is intended to put an end to it, and that is what followed: this state intervention, the fact that the government has meant to have to interfere with the appearance of Black Piet in the wake of all these action groups. They were semi-governments like schools and they were governments like municipal authorities and mayors who have spoken out. But at the highest level it was our Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Asscher. Mr Monasch has, I believe, a past in Mr Asscher's party. Does he remember any of that? How'd that go? Can he say a little more about the role played by the Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u4	In fact, I remember that very well. When this came out, I was still a member of that group. I immediately stated that I thought it was rather wasted that a cabinet minister was dealing with this issue. If you say that it has to be something in society that develops over time, then you cannot then as a representative of the cabinet gather parties together and make agreements with them, which, for example, resulted in RTL no longer broadcasting the Black Piet we are talking about. If you think it is such a development, then you should not interfere as Minister of Social Affairs. That is what I thought at the time, and that is what I think, of course, even now. So I thought that was a misguided action by someone who is a member of the cabinet, especially a deputy prime minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u5	This law, but a very small law, does not really do much more than protect the appearance of Black Piet from government interference. You have to be able to get your hands together for that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u6	We're gonna make the decision on that. That is why we have this debate today. It's double. We have always said: let it develop, we believe in the power of the Netherlands, in the power of society. Some people think Amsterdam is the Netherlands, but look beyond Amsterdam and you will see that almost everyone says: hands off that party. I would have preferred to have chosen the development. The proposal is now gaining much more power again, we are weighing up at the end of the day because the government is now going to interfere and prescribe how it should be celebrated in the public domain. I think that's a bad step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. The feast of Saint and Peter is an ancient tradition. The characteristic of traditions is that they are constantly changing. If tradition doesn't change, she disappears. Capturing a tradition is an attempt to stop time. It can't be. The Black Piet we have now is different from the Black Piet of the past and in the future it will be different. I would like to thank the authors very much for the legislative proposal. It takes a lot of time to make an initiative proposal. I was wondering whether the energy could not have been used a little better, but I thank the authors for the effort. The SP will not be able to support this. We don't want it and we can't. Mr Bosma has often warned in the past about politicians and governments interfering in culture, about the conduct of cultural policy. There have been regimes in the past that have conducted this kind of cultural policy. Mr Bosma has been the first to distance himself from this. As a government, you may be protecting a tradition, a culture that threatens to disappear. However, I think that the feast of Saint and Peter is particularly lively, par excellence is a lively tradition. It is celebrated almost everywhere and it is also discussed exuberantly every year. I do not see this discussion as a threat to this tradition, but above all as an expression of the vividness of this discussion. We must have a lot of discussions in the Chamber, but I would prefer to have the discussion about Saint Peter outside this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators of this Black Piet Act for having submitted this law for discussion here. I wish them good luck today and later in the First Chamber. It is a small law in size, but it is very significant when it comes to content. The culture of the West is under pressure. Our culture with Jewish-Christian and humanistic roots, the culture of the Nightland, we call it the culture of free thought, of individual responsibility and of freedom, prosperity and well-being. That superior culture, which has brought us science, health care, peace and security, is very sweet to us. That culture and our traditions are deep in our hearts. But on all sides, that culture is being undermined. Everything is being pulled out to weaken our cultural self-awareness. The politically correct elite, I would like to print that this is a small minority, as Mr Monasch said, has even existed to corrupt the beautiful Sinterklaas party by linking it to racism via Black Piet. The children's party is politicized in the grimest way you can imagine. It is a shame that an untolerant minority, wallowing in its own right, has managed to establish a link with racism that is not there and that has never been there. The applicants describe this convincingly in the explanatory memorandum. After years of intimidation and aggression, the racist campaigners have been able to destroy this beautiful tradition in such a way that local sinterklaas parades need police security. They have ensured that primary schools and media not only bow to their demands, but even demand that parents of school children and viewers to state television adapt to the idiotic nature of rainbows and soot wigs. We can see government interference because that's what local authorities are saying openly that Black Piet is going to belong to the past and schools that forbid Black Piet. Even the vice prime minister says Black Pete is hurtful and needs to change. We didn't start that cultural battle. We didn't politicize the Sinterklaas party. They have done so, those fanatics, that intolerable minority, a minority who sees racism that is not there, a minority who, by all accounts, is covered in the uniform of the Black Panthers, that uniform of violence, intimidation and intolerance. They managed to ruin the children's party with enthusiastic cooperation from the media, education, municipal authorities and even government representatives. And that while according to a Telegraph survey, 91% think that there is no need to change the appearance of Black Piet. A minority position with so much intimidation and intolerance was rarely imposed on a majority. The worst part is that the children, who spend weeks looking forward to December 5th, don't understand anything about it. They didn't ask for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u9	I would like to ask Mr Beertema if it is wise, if you are so against government interference, to opt for another form of government interference, namely a law. Actually, the PVV's argument: government interference with this party is terrible, very bad. That is in itself a position on which you can have an excellent discussion. Next, the PVV comes up with a law, which, of course, is also government intervention. How am I supposed to rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u10	In itself, that's not so crazy. Well, that happens to me all the time. This is a tradition that is deep in the heart of the vastest part of the population you can imagine. If such a tradition is under pressure from this state interference, it is not so crazy to think of a legal measure not to let that happen. Article 23 of the Constitution, on freedom of education, also has such aspects. The government must not interfere with the special schools. So it happens all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u11	Okay, fine, then that's the thought of the PVV. I have another question. Mr Beertema talks about tradition and its importance all the time. It is quite conceivable that you stand up for a tradition, but there is a much more important tradition, which I have not heard mention of Mr Bertema in his speech. This is a Dutch tradition that I believe we should all continue to fight hard for every day, namely the tradition of our rule of law, which protects citizens from arbitrariness of governments and fellow citizens. That tradition is rapidly breaking down the PVV. Shouldn't we stop this Black Pietwet bullshit and just fight for a tradition that is really important, namely the rule of law? It's just breaking down the PVV. Why does the PVV do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u12	I believe that the rule of law has a duty to interfere with this, for all those millions of citizens who have this sintering cheese party very high and who are determined to honour this tradition. That's to protect that vast majority from intolerance and aggression. I just said that the entrances should be guarded by police and ME. There are death threats about social media when it comes to Black Pete. This leaves so much to be desired that the rule of law does indeed have a role to play in this. I just said the kids didn't ask for it. In their response to the Council of State's opinion, the applicants rightly argue that the attack on Black Piet cannot be seen separately from anything greater. The attack on the Sinterklaas party is the most successful attack in a larger war against our identity. See how the politicians try to surpass each other in the attack of all the other important symbols of our nation and of our identity. The Hague University of Applied Sciences, for example, threw out the traditional Christmas tree years ago, because it would hurt Islam. Look how Easter eggs turned into a kind of newspeak into "hidden eggs" and how in schools the Christmas party is semantically turned into "winter party" or "light party." The Dutch flag has almost disappeared from public space. The cross on the miter of the Amsterdam Sinterklaas had to disappear, because it was also offensive to Islam. And so it goes on. That's what the PVV takes a stand against. We want to stop this attack on our identity and traditions. That is why we are proud of the initiators of this law. We must cherish our traditions, be proud of them and, above all, pass them on to future generations. Our culture requires maintenance. We have to take care of her because we want to be who we are and we want to be who we are. This law fits in very well. This little law seeks to protect the citizen from further interference with the appearance of Black Piet, who is the driving force behind that beautiful sintering party; nothing more, nothing less. In the note following the report, the initiators say that their intention is to protect Black Piet against the Dutch government and against the attacks of a small activist group that prefers to see this folk festival disappear. With this law, the government does not get a job, but rather prevents the government from being given a substantive role and thus a task in determining the appearance of Black Piet. Because municipalities, schools and even the vice prime minister are doing that now. This initiative proposal only aims to ensure that public authorities only grant licences for sintering Klaa activities, organise their own sintering Klaa activities or cooperate with them if the Black Piet character is honored. This will also prevent all kinds of court cases and opposition proceedings from being initiated with regard to changing the appearance of Black Piet. And that's not insignificant. To sum up, the PVV group is a great fan of Black Piet and its essential role in the sintering class celebration. The Sinterklaas party is a typical Dutch tradition that must be preserved for the future. The Dutch traditions and thus our identity are heavily under attack. Unfortunately, not only does the government not offer protection, but it even focuses on abolishing our traditions, customs and identity. This debate is only about Black Piet, but in the background it is about preserving our culture. The least we can expect from our government is that it does not turn against its own people. Therefore, the importance of this bill cannot be underestimated, although its size is limited, its focus is narrow and what is imposed is easy to understand. The government simply should no longer take active action to damage the sintering cheese party. In doing so, this bill is a small but very important step to preserve our identity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u13	The PVV wants to file a law to protect Black Piet. There's been a terrorist attack on a mosque in Enschede. Five terrorists threw a molotov cocktail in broad daylight and were convicted of it. Does Mr Beertema think that the PVV should also protect Muslims and mosques?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u14	Soon we will be talking about global warming, freedom of education, or I know what. This is an initiative proposal from the PVV to protect the appearance of Black Piet from government interference, and Mr Öztürk exists to come here with an attack on a mosque. I don't understand the connection, not even with the best will in the world. I don't think I'm going to go into that further, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u15	That is the big problem: Mr Bertema does not understand. We're dealing with terrorist cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u16	Russian business?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u17	We are dealing with our rule of law, as the D66 spokesperson rightly pointed out. Our rule of law is under pressure. And what is Mr Beertema concerned about? About the color of Black Piet. Purely and only because of the polls that have fallen. Purely to win the voters back. Pure electoral gain. No popular culture. Pure gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u18	Now I understand: Mr Oztürk is playing down what happened around Black Piet. I believe that one of the leaders of those intolerant activists heard from Mr Oztürk's party. That is no longer the case. Look, it's not just about the look of Black Pete. Mr Oztürk did not listen, I think. It is an orchestrated attack on Dutch culture. Where 91% of the Telegraph readers didn't want it to change, they had to and would change that by an activist aggressive minority involving Mr Oztürk's people. And now Mr Oztürk tells me it's not about anything! Come on, Mr Oztürk, you can do better than this. Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. There they sit, the servants of Geert. The servants of Geert have made a Black Piet Act. There they sit, the two of them. They fear the changed society. They are afraid that society wants to celebrate the Sinterklaas party in a good way. They're afraid of falling into the polls. They're afraid not to get those votes. That's why these big men are here to file a law on Black Pete. I think we're being ridiculed internationally...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u20	They are MPs, Mr Oztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u21	...if we see a law filed here about Black Pete, purely for electoral gain. Anyway... DENK is not in favour of abolishing the Sinterklaas party. Of course not. DENK is for adjusting the sintering cheese party so that everyone can party, so that everyone can participate; adapt by taking out the racist elements. We received support from an unexpected angle. I found a poem in my shoe this morning. Maybe it's Saint's. I'll read it to you. Sinterklaas says no to the Black Piets of the PVV. Sinterklaas comes back from Spain especially, because he is worried about the country of Orange. This acid PVV is always calling minorities names and now they even want to mention Black Piet in the law. This is what they call the preservation of their own culture, St. Saint's calling it the sparking of racist fire. Santa Claus might know, because he hasn't forgotten his own childhood. He lived among all other people of the white race and thought he was better than the black man. For the past 60 years, Sint has learned a lot and has turned for the better. He now knows that his Black Piets are causing a lot of pain to people whose ancestors were supposed to be our slaves. How rude is it to rub that every year that makes you pretend our minorities remain. Black Piet is sometimes even used as a swear word, which is of course unheard of at a children's party. Black people who are sometimes called names for Black Piet, Sinterklaas really doesn't think so. But Geert's PVV boys didn't learn anything from this. Always those prejudices that continue to divide groups. White is the boss, black is the fool, white is the hero, black clears the field. Why do people have to live in such a caricature? Isn't that racist climate too acidic? That's why Saint Nicholas thinks things have to be different. He's excited about a Piet of soot. Rainbow pricks are also a cheerful alternative, because all colours are the same sweet. Sinterklaas goes along with the changes and says no to the naughty men of the PVV. Bosma and the Count get from Saint de Roe and have to go to an anti-discrimination course. They can tear up their racist bill, because the Netherlands is now a country of many colors. Sinterklaas already knows what he is going to vote on 15 March, because DENK will inhibit discrimination in the Netherlands. So get rid of all the prejudices about DENK. That party is good for everyone, including Maud and Henk. So much for the contribution of Saint Nicholas. I now have some questions from DENK to the Minister. I'm starting the peaceful demonstrations against Black Pete. Part of the population thinks Black Pete is hurtful. Part of society is demonstrating. What happens then? In peaceful protests, the government deprives its citizens of the right to demonstrate. The government deprives citizens of freedom of expression and sometimes arrests them in a very aggressive way. According to Amnesty International, this happened illegally in Rotterdam last November. What does the Minister think of this criticism? Does he agree with Amnesty International? What is he going to do to give this kind of peaceful demonstration all the space in the future? Because that is also our tradition: giving people the space to demonstrate. The government's duty to combat discrimination is not without obligation. According to our own Constitution and international treaties, we are obliged to do so. With a racist caricature like Black Piet during a children's party we facilitate discrimination. Each year there are parades in numerous municipalities with racist parts. Does the Minister agree with us? Does the Minister not agree that, as a government, we are obliged to actively tackle racism and discrimination in our society? It is good that several ministers have said that the Sinterklaas festival contains racist elements. Former Minister Van der Steur mentioned a negative stereotyping and described how these prejudices and discrimination can be encouraged. However, the government itself does nothing. She says it's up to society to change the party. Politics therefore awaits society and society awaits politics. We think it's too weak from DENK. What's this minister like? Does he lean back on guys, too? Or is he actively going to do something against this stereotyping? What does he think of the reactions from abroad? There they are bewildered when they hear about Black Pete. Sunny Bergman's documentary showed this. They think it's a disgrace. They're laughing at us. What does this mean for the international standing of the Netherlands? We don't want to be known as that little racist country, do we? Criticism of Black Piet is not appreciated in the Netherlands. Anyone who openly criticises is silenced and can count on a load of racist crap. Born and raised Dutch people are told to pick up their own land. Democratic standards and values are not guaranteed. Our own Children's Ombudsman Margrite Kalverboer even faced death threats. What does the Minister think of these excesses in society? Like Prime Minister Rutte, does he think the Netherlands is such a cool country? It is often said that Saint Nicholas is such a fun children's party, but it is certainly not for all children. Children with dark skin color are bullied and are always called Black Piet. There is no interest in the psychological distress of these children. For many children, Santa Claus is not a party at all. By way of illustration, I read the story of writer Synthia Schmeltz. "The phrase 'at least you don't need to be painted', I've heard so VAOK! Really, it makes me sick over and over again. Each year, from the first time sinterklass candy appeared in the stores, my afro went into protective hairstyle. That "protective" wasn't to protect my hair necessarily, but to take precautions to protect myself from racist utterances disguised under the guise of "it's just a joke," "I didn't mean it bad" or "why are you doing so hard, it's BUT a children's party?'. For years, I've kept quiet about it, tried to keep my mouth shut. Try to hold on until December 6th, when everything is out of the country and I can finally breathe again. But every year they are getting ahead with it, so every year it gets harder to hold my breath, keep my mouth shut, while I break inside of all the hurtful things I hear or see pass by my retina." Mr. Chairman. So this is how people experience it, the way people feel it. DENK feels this pain, but I wonder if the other MPs feel this pain too. Do they want to ease that pain together with DENK? That's what DENK is hoping for. DENK hopes that we can all adapt the party so that we can celebrate this children's party in the Netherlands, everyone together, and everyone can experience and experience this party in the Netherlands. I would say: dare to think differently, dare to join the changing society, dare to bring everyone together to celebrate a good party every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that the right of initiative is an important tool for Parliament, and you know this as no other. I know from my own experience that it takes a great deal of time for Members of Parliament to exercise that right. If MPs do that, I respect that. That is why I am standing here today to contribute to this debate on this law. It is a pity that a number of parties have not taken that trouble. I won't call them by name, because that wouldn't be sporting. But that is the only positive thing I can say about this bill. This bill is intended to record how a Dutch tradition, the Sinterklaas party, should be celebrated. So where do we start and where does this end? Are we also going to lay down by law that Easter eggs should be green, that pepper nuts should be in the shop in October, that carnival cars should be six meters long, what is the route of the Elfstedentocht or what games the king should play with the people on his birthday? I'd like a response from the petitioners. Sinterklaas is a children's party to which every generation of parents and children can give their contemporary experience. Is Sinterklaas with Black Piet meant as a racist party? No. Does it matter to children if Piet is black, white, green, pink or purple? No. Should it be possible for parents, schools, shops and sintering-class parades to add other Piets? Yes. Does this PVV law help the social debate, which has been burning in our country for a number of years now? No, not at all. Is this PVV law politising and polarizing the Black Piet debate? Yes. Does the PVV use this bill to score over the back of Black Piet enthusiasts in campaign time? Full-bodied, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr Verhoeven can't be serious, can he? Now the PVV is the one polarizing...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u24	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u25	... andispoliticizing. Come on! Where have you been all these years when those sweet Sinterklaas parades were ruined by activists from DENK and by all kinds of anti-fascists who used violence and aggression? How do you appreciate the need for such a children's party to be guarded by platoons ME? Then you can't tell us we're polarizing, can you? Come on, Mr Verhoeven of D66!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr Beertema himself knows that this is a really bad unbelievable interruption. If there is one political strategy that the PVV has followed in recent years, if there is one way in which the PVV has tried to attract attention in recent years, and if there is one way in which the PVV has tried to turn the debate into its own, then it is through polarization, by putting people against each other, by creating false contradictions, by inventing fake solutions and by doing facts-free politics. That hasn't helped anyone in our society. I blame the PVV for that. So I have so far said things that I meant all letter by letter, word by word. So, yeah, I mean it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr Verhoeven can blame me for a stupid interruption, and I think this is an incredibly stupid answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u28	Then I don't think we understand each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u29	Of course, we polarize, we politicize. We are the best, Mr Verhoeven. My party leader does that, we do that. That's what we do here, in this house. This is the house of politics. There is polarisation, there is political practice. But it's about out there, all those innocent people, all those innocent kids who don't know anything, and they're being harassed by the people you seem to be a fan or who you close your eyes to, because you don't want to see it. That's the polarization that took place in the street view. It is scandalous that you trivialize that in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr Beertema is very upset, and that also fits in with the approach of the PVV. Do you know what this country needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u31	Can't stand anything, man.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u32	Do you know what this country needs, what this country craves, what this country and people in all areas of the Netherlands, from Groningen to Den Helder and from Friesland to Maastricht, need? That's to a little connection, to a little cooperation, to try to make the country stronger with each other and to listen to all the different views. That's exactly what the PVV always refuses. That is precisely the political style that divides this country even further. And yes, I blame the PVV and D66 will never, ever cooperate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u33	In itself, this example is taken from my heart to connect throughout the country. But is the call of D66 aldermen to proclaim the Republic of Amsterdam if they do not like the outcome of a national election, an example of connecting and forming a country with each other and being a democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u34	The D66 Group and also the D66 aldermen will never participate in a policy in which people are discriminated against and excluded, as the PVV advocated, and in which racist traits exist. If an alderman makes such a statement, it is in the light of the fact that we stand for our rule of law and that we will never be held hostage by a policy that categorically excludes people. If New Ways take that new path and say that this is a good way, then separate our ways here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u35	Let the voter determine where the roads separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u36	Sure. They absolutely will, Mr Monasch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u37	I do call on D66, if one takes the measure of others, and there are quite a few points in it, so that one does not say oneself as a political party that one does not like the Republic of Amsterdam as oneself, because one does decide how this country is to be set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u38	I'm not taking anybody's measure. I would just like to say to Mr Beertema that D66 stands for our rule of law, in which we do not discriminate and do not categorically exclude people. If the PVV is engaged in a policy that is aimed at categorically excluding people, D66 will oppose it until the last day. That's how our alderman's remark needs to be explained. And it's been a very good statement. Mr. Chairman. With a bill dictated from above, so I say to Mr Beertema, but of course also to the esteemed proposers who have worked so hard on this bill, the PVV is committing a children's party violence. The Sinterklaas party is not immune to time, as it is not a tradition. Saint and Peter will change with the spirit of time, as every tradition does. That is the way in which centuries-old traditions can survive. Even Mr Van Raak of the SP said very strikingly that traditions must be able to survive in a changing period of time. The PVV itself writes about this in the bill, and I quote from the wonderful work of these two gentlemen: "In a changing world, it is important that symbols and customs continue to exist from which Dutch people derive their identity and which contribute to community spirit." In other words, how is a folk festival supposed to survive if it is not allowed to go with its time? I do know that the PVV wants to go back to the past, back to the guilder, back to the last century. And it's okay. But it's a farce to think everything used to be better. Talk to the elderly and discover that there used to be fear of change. Talk to children and you hear that their experience is so different from your own. And that makes it so sad that a social debate about a children's party has become so polarized and that the PVV wants to throw oil on the fire in this way. Now I come to the hypocritical part of this proposal from the PVV. It is always the PVV who proclaims everywhere: The elite in The Hague should not take care of things, but people should do so themselves. How can that same PVV in a Hague law want to prescribe a Dutch tradition to that same people? This law of the PVV is a motion of distrust of the population, a motion of distrust of the social debate, a motion of distrust of Dutch society. How hypocritical, elitist and Haags can the PVV itself be? I'd like a response from the petitioners. In doing so, the PVV creates a false contradiction. A fabricated majority is supposedly being held hostage by a fabricated minority. It's as if this social debate is being simplified. The good people against the bad elite. That is the image that the PVV's campaign strategy has invented: invented contradictions, false facts, inciting and polarizing. That doesn't do the discussion about Black Piet justice. All nuances in this discussion do not do justice to that. A lot of people say, "It's a kids' party." Others say it's racist. Others say it's never meant to be like that. And then they hear again: yes, but that's how it seems. In all these views lies a core of truth. So I say to the PVV, so I say to the proposers: let's listen to each other. Let us give each other space so that the outcome of the discussion can and may vary by region, by school, by neighbourhood. Let people get out of there with each other. Above all, let us not want to smother people's own strength by law. D66 has a much more positive human image and also a broader picture of our national identity than the PVV. Finally, let me take this opportunity to clarify this point. D66 sees the Netherlands as a country of openness, of freedom and entrepreneurial spirit, where opportunities arise, where the vision of the world and the future is focused, with a society in which you accept and respect each other's differences, in which you open yourself to the other, a society in which we can live in freedom by giving each other space and taking into account each other's differences and differences. In a society like this, the government doesn't impose morale. On the contrary, in the Netherlands, politics creates room for social debate, for a debate in society, also about Black Piet. The initiators of the PVV apparently do not like such a free society. Discussion about Zwarte Piet they consider as a form of capitulation, giving up the Dutch identity. Let me be clear: that is a very limited national identity, selective towards the past. In my Dutch identity, we try to resolve differences with respect. That is what we do with a debate in which everyone can express their opinion, in which we listen to each other, in which we also listen to the opinion of minorities. Yes, as a legislator, we deal with a lot of things, but with traditions, at children's parties, D66 lays the line. For D66, this PVV proposal is not like us in the Netherlands dealing with traditions, not how we deal with the social debate or how we want to deal with each other. Therefore, D66 gives the discussion back to society, to the schools celebrating sintering classrooms, to the municipalities organizing the entrances, to television programmes in which Sinterklaas and Piet visit, to all those people celebrating this celebration with their children. Whether they're for Black Piet or for a rainbow or a soot wiper, we'll find out. That's where these people, these organizations, these agencies, spread all over the country, come out themselves. The PVV pretends to stand up for a Dutch tradition, but meanwhile the same PVV is breaking down the most important Dutch tradition, namely that of our rule of law, which gives citizens freedoms and protects them from the arbitrariness of government and fellow citizens. For that tradition, D66 will always fight, with his head held high, right against the arbitrariness and the cold and cold wind of the PVV! In the meantime, of course, D66 will vote against the Black Piet Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr. Chairman. Who didn't expect a shoe with a pear in front of the horse of Saint Nicholas by the chimney and sung sintering songs in the hope and expectation that Black Piet would crawl through the chimney at night to fill the shoe with a present or something delicious? Who didn't stand by the road with red cots at the entrance of Saint Nicholas in the hope that a tough Black Piet would give you a hand pepper nuts? And who didn't look full of fun and admiration at the caprioles of the Black Piets when they together with the Saint visited school. The Sinterklaas party with all its symbols is deep in our souls and the Sinterklaas party is a through and through Dutch tradition. I myself grew up in Haaksbergen, three kilometres from the border with Germany. But with sinterklaas was and is Haaksbergen through and through Dutch, because Sinterklaas and Zwarte Piet they don't have across the border. By the way, I was gonna leave it at the rhyme today, but still... The Sinterklaas party with all its symbols and mysticism is a unique children's party and gives a sense of joy and identity. It is a children's feast that we must cherish, so that many future generations too can enjoy it with the same pleasure as we have. The fact is that the Sinterklaas party is an old tradition in the Netherlands and that Zwarte Piet is part of that tradition. The fact is also that the appearance and interpretation of Black Piet and Saint Nicholas is subject to change. The picture of Zwarte Piet from the middle of the nineteenth century, which the initiators sent along with the bill, is different from the Black Piet they are now proposing in the bill. The fact is that until about ten years ago, the only anger related to the Sinterklaas party was limited to the always far too early moment that the first pepper nuts were in the store, but since then more has arisen year after year about the appearance of Black Piet. The fact is that the look of Zwarte Piet has become a symbol of whether the Netherlands remains the Netherlands. This leads, on the one hand, to people who see a racist expression in the appearance of Black Piet and who protest loudly and sometimes even make threats. On the other hand, it rains petitions and heavy swearings, often online, by people who think that the appearance of Black Piet is more sacred than the beard of Santa Claus and should therefore be legally enforced. I say to both camps: Ruining a children's party is not normal! The initiators are strongly on the side of the people who attach to the tradition of Saint Nicholas and the Black Piet. They argue that the look of that Black Piet is under pressure, while the sintering-class party with Black Piets is an explicit part of the Dutch identity. They believe that that identity should be protected by prescribing the appearance of Black Piet in legal provisions. The Sinterklaas party is a beautiful Dutch tradition. It is a unique children's feast that we must cherish. It is a traditional folk festival that has taken shape without government influence. As soon as the government gets involved, this wonderful children's tradition will disappear. That process is already in progress and that is worrying, because the initiators are of course right in their observation that the Sinterklaas party is already threatened by government interference with the appearance of Black Piet. That too is undesirable, but that doesn't mean that capturing the look of Black Piet brings the future of a fun and relaxing Sinterklaas party any closer. Saint Nicholas is a folk tradition. The population determines the appearance of Black Piet and the interpretation of the sinterklaasfest and not politics. Politics must therefore take a firm step back and give back the Sinterklaas party to the people, first and foremost to the children. We have to get back to normal around the sinterklaas party and realize that this is a children's party and not a battleground for eternal moral equality. The VVD will therefore not support the present law. As soon as we establish a beautiful Dutch children's tradition in a law, we take it away from our children. For that, the Sinterklaas party the VVD is too dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the authors, Mr Bosma and Mr De Graaf. Where PVV-Room members have submitted several own-initiative laws, this is the first proposal in the history of the PVV that actually reaches the plenary. In other cases, a law was announced with a lot of bombabre, but the PVV abandoned when it came to answering the opinion of the Council of State or written questions from the Chamber. One would almost think that the handling of this bill means that the PVV will take the work of co-legislator representatives more seriously. Almost, until you read the proposal, the Black Piet Act. The PVV's only initiative law that is being passed to the plenary is not about unemployment, not about bedkeeping, not about the shortage of rental homes and not even about immigration. No, what the PVV really wants to spend time and effort for is the look of Piet. The bill narrows the social debate on the figure of Black Piet to a few lines about earrings, red lipstick and puffy pants. Critical questions from different political groups were either evasive or not answered during the written consultation. For example, the bill states that the result of Saint Nicholas should only consist of Black Piets who have to comply with different dress regulations. Doesn't this mean that Saint Nicholas can no longer be accompanied by the mayor during the entry? Or does the PVV expect them to comply with the clothing regulations? How do the proposers expect the dress rules to be enforced as there is no sanction in the legislation? It is strange that the authors do not seem to be able to answer such simple questions. Legislation should not be a publicity stunt, but something that we as legislators take seriously. I would like to invite the authors to make another attempt to answer this question seriously. I am also curious to see how they align the imposition of a binding rule up to and including the colour of the earrings with a cultural feast, with the freedom the PVV always suggests to be so. No one is now forbidden to doze off during the sintering class as described in the law of the proposers. The freedom not to do so removes the PVV with a bill. Those who look at this proposal with an objective view can therefore only conclude that it restricts freedom. Isn't prescribing clothing no longer a practice that belongs in countries like Iran and Saudi Arabia? I also wonder whether the proposers have considered the impact of this bill in the unlikely event that it is adopted. After all, could the strict rules that Piet has to comply with in the case of publicly organized or subsidised sintering-class events not result in governments simply abandoning the organisation of a sintering-class party? Couldn't this bill be the reason why Santa Claus is celebrating? And isn't that contrary to the intention of the proposers? The authors also say in the explanatory statement that Black Pete would be a centuries-old tradition, but what is the basis for that? According to my information, Sinterklaas was not accompanied by Black Piets until the official entry of 1934. This is less than a century ago, indeed a period in which our colonial past played a central role. The initiators have so far not addressed the criticism of people who feel hurt by the figure of Black Piet in relation to that colonial past. They take it off as "that's not what Black Pete meant at all." That is true, of course, for the celebration of Saint Nicholas as we know it now. There will be few people who dress up like Black Pete to ridicule people with dark skin color. That does not alter the fact that the tradition did come from the colonial past. Despite the fact that no white Dutchman can now be held directly personally responsible for the slavery past of our country, we do have a responsibility to acknowledge that past and to take into account the feelings of people in whose family history that colonial past occupies an important place. GroenLinks is therefore pleased that initiatives have emerged from society itself to modernise Piet and to make it less offensive to the group concerned. For children, the colour of Piet of course doesn't matter, except for children with dark skin color, according to research by the Children's Ombudsman. The Sinterklaas party must be a party for everyone. We therefore see no reason to accept the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. In preparation for this debate I was looking at photos, photos of the Sinterklaas party in the last 100 years. Those who do so see that a long tradition in the Netherlands has always been subject to change over the years. But never before has there been so much social discussion about this children's party as in recent years. Because it is and remains a children's party as far as the Labour Party is concerned. But do you still feel heard when you say it hurts to see Black Pete as a role model at this children's party? Or are we still listening to each other when you say you have concerns about preserving our traditions? A large group of Dutch people no longer feel at home here, while another group feels that the Netherlands is losing its identity. A society where everyone feels at home, we do not realize with a law that prescribes what Black Pete should look like. Traditions are constantly changing and that can also include the appearance of Black Piet. It is good to discuss it and have a social debate on it, but it is not up to us as legislators to go so far as to lay down rules on it. In short, we are opposed to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u42	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr. Chairman. I particularly appreciate the fact that you have found a small space on the agenda for this fine legislative initiative. In this way we can still deal with it in the Chamber as it stands. Thank you very much for that. I would also like to thank Mr De Graaf, my co-author. I would also like to thank my colleague Mr Van Zonneveld. I thank the Minister already. Yesterday we were allowed to have some contact. When I became a Member of Parliament in 2006, Mr Plasterk was "my" Minister. I spent a lot of years playing with him. It is a good thing that we are allowed to end this cooperation parliamentaryly in Box K. I think that's beautiful. I would also like to thank the parties who participated in the written round of questions. In particular, I thank D66 for doing it in rhyme. The SGP sent colour illustrations from the book by Jan Schenkman from 1850. It's two parliamentary unicas. I see that Mr Verhoeven is eating right now. Enjoy your meal, Mr Verhoeven. I'll give you a brief general introduction first. I shall then turn to specific questions that have been asked. This bill is about our precious Black Pete. We see a broad attack on our child friend, but we can only understand it if we recognise that it is a much wider offensive. We only understand it when we see how expressions of our culture are under pressure in many places in society. The Christmas market becomes a winter market. The Easter eggs become hid eggs. Christmas Pole's gonna be the party bollocks. Christmas is suddenly called the light party. Christmas dinner's gonna be the end of the year. Christmas breakfast will be the winter breakfast. Easter breakfast will be the spring breakfast. And the NPO calls us in a commercial: December you celebrate together. The statues reminiscent of the VOC are painted. And in Belgium and France, the nativity scenes are under attack. Much of what reminds us of our history and our past is under attack. It is all placed along the politically correct measuring bar. The question is: how long do we let this go on and where do we draw a line in the sand? The hard war against Black Piet symbolizes a lot more than a child's friend's face. It concerns three fundamental questions. It's about whether the lie rules in the Netherlands. It's about our culture and our traditions. Thirdly, it is about democracy. The Netherlands loves Black Piet. 80 to 90% of people want Black Piet, also the over-, vast majority of our children. There's no reason to abolish Black Pete. Yet there is a war against him, a war based on fake news and lies. Does our precious Black Pete have anything to do with slavery? No. Does it have anything to do with racism? Neither. There is a beautiful DVD, wild raving, made by journalist Arnold-Jan Scheer. For 30 years he has been travelling across Europe and filming all kinds of parties that take place in winter. Winter is a dark time that seems to be hopeless, but where playful figures announce the first signs of a new era, the first signs of a new life. These parties are often about fertility and about presents, often with blackfaced faces. This happens in all kinds of places, from Cornwall to Macedonia, deep in the Alps and on the Wadden Islands. These are the servants of Tijl Uilenspiegel, Jack Sparrow, Pan, Arlequino, Krampus, Knecht Ruprecht, Barrel, Hüllepöpel, Belzmärte, Père Fouettard, Beelzebub. Those are all kinds of examples. In Persia, outside Europe, the figure of Hadji Firoez exists. It is recognised by the UN and is on the list of masterpieces of human heritage. It's a party with young people who behave foolishly for a week, with blackened faces. And then a man with a long beard shows up and gives presents. Our Black Piet is an example of that. It's an example of that tradition. He is an expression of a pan-European phenomenon. "Festivals of soot-measuring men have been around for ten thousand years." That's what Arnold-Jan Scheer says. So it can't have anything to do with transatlantic slavery. The tradition is far too old for that. Many of the figures were already popular when America had yet to be discovered. Black Piet-like figures are older than Columbus. These figures are also found in countries such as Macedonia and Iran, which are totally unknown to transatlantic slavery. Also the story that our dear Black Piet is a caricature of a slave is a pertinent lie. Look at Black Piet: he's very smart! He's outsmarted everyone. "He rules!', They'd say in America. He's kidding everyone: the clergyman, the magistrates, the bosses, the bobos. He challenges authority all the time. Sociologist Herman Vuijsje rightly says that Zwarte Piet is not the lesser, on the contrary: "Pete is not only a delight to the eye, he is also the most handsome boy in the class, who always helps St. Piet is intelligent, resourceful and cold-blooded. (...) In addition, he has achieved all this on his own. Piet is a textbook example of successful emancipation." Black Piet is also accessible. Saint is very often the man in the background, on a pedestal, someone you have a huge respect for. Black Pete's a hell of a guy. Arnold-Jan Scheer says it so well: Saint and Black Piet are ying and yang. And indeed, "Sinterklaas, who doesn't know him? Saint Nicholas, Saint Nicholas and of course Black Piet." That makeup isn't a racial insult. A clown isn't a caricature of a white man, is it? Black Piet is a prince rather than a slave. Look at his clothes, which we have only partially included in the law: a hat with a feather, a beautiful colored jacket, sometimes with a shoulder drag, a colored puffy trousers, a tights and beautiful shoes. Verene Shepherd, chairman of a working group at the United Nations, says that the Dutch Sinterklaas party is a return to colonialism. That's indescribable apekraut. It is also hurtful for Dutch people, who have been celebrating this wonderful party for centuries. Their culture is being made ridiculous and suspicious. Someone from the NPO reported that a 3-year-old boy with a miter on his head on his shoulders was called a racist by Daddy. The lie must not reign. So our Black Piet should not be caltgestellt by government based on a lie. Many participants in this debate make the point that the government should not interfere with our party. I fully agree with that. I would say: hands off our traditions and so hands off, Minister Asscher, hands off, Rutte II! We are the representatives of the people. We represent the people as House of Representatives. We must therefore defend the people against the government if it has evil plans and intentions. This cabinet has opened the hunting season on Black Piet. It's conducting a frontal and coordinated attack. Minister Asscher goes all out and has announced that Black Piet will no longer exist in a few years. Asscher started his evil work as alderman of Amsterdam. Within a few months of his arrival, the Christian cross disappeared from the miter of Saint Nicholas, a kneel of the multicule. The CDA-Room Group asked questions about this. This minister answered that at the time, so he is long in the file. The CDA-Room Group said that the arrival of new ethnic groups with their own cultures, celebrations, customs and religions in our Dutch society should not mean that the Christian origin of our own culture, celebrations and customs are denied. The CDA then called for all symbols and references to be retained at the Sinterklaas party. Sinterklaasexpert Jan Gajentan, whose grandfather played an important role in many entrances after World War II, writes: "Our directors bow down like knives to any sound of insult or indignation from the minority circuit, but our own traditions are abolished or stripped so that no one has any fun in it anymore." Minister Asscher says about Black Piet: "The majority must adapt to the minority." That is a strange argument, because to which minorities should we adapt? A minority of the people in the Netherlands want the Sharia. A minority may want to abolish democracy. I never hear anyone say: PVV's have an opinion; let us adapt to PVV's. I heard the Prime Minister say in another context: there are more of us. But apparently that is not an argument in defending our traditions. The Netherlands is apparently the dictatorship of a minority, says philosopher Sebastien Valkenberg right about this. Today we are talking about traditions, but also about democracy. Our Black Piet is being demolished far away from all democratic control, namely in Mr Asscher's back rooms. Minister Asscher organizes meetings at his ministry, the so-called "Black Piet consultation." A senior official says that adjusting Black Piet is the goal. Apparently, that is an important priority for the Deputy Prime Minister of this country. Participants must sign a declaration. The party has to be everyone's, that's what it's called, but we know what that means. Those participants then go home to demolish Black Piet, see the NTR, RTL, all kinds of shops and entry committees. Never has the Chamber been informed of this, except in response to parliamentary questions, because I had read about it in the newspaper. It's sneaky. It's not supposed to be like that. The government does not take action against all kinds of other parties, such as the Ramadan, the Sacrifice Festival or the Sugar Festival. That is all very well, while there is also something to be done, for example fasting. In fact, the government encourages and facilitates these celebrations, see for example the municipal Iftar measures and the fact that children get free with the Sugar Festival. Our Black Piet is being banished from more and more schools and ridiculed with government subsidies. Asscher doesn't want a burkini ban, but apparently he does want a Black Piet ban. Our primal Dutch festival of Sinterklaas and Zwarte Piet is located under a magnifying glass. Why one party, but not the other? Why can Muslims celebrate with state aid, but is our Black Pete suddenly a problem? Asscher speaks for the cabinet. But other members of the cabinet have also expressed a negative opinion on Black Piet, such as Mrs Bussemaker, who deals with our culture, and Mr Dekker, the Secretary of State responsible for education. Then mayor picks the wrong party after mayor and we come up with fake pricks, such as rainbow pricks, syrup waffles and so on. Sometimes they invoke the Sinterklaasjournaal, like Mr Van Aartsen in this city. He's from the VVD. In Heemstede, the PvdA mayor hides behind the Children's Ombudswoman. In Gouda, the VVD mayor shields with Gouda traditions. The PvdA mayor of Hilversum mainly understands the activists. In Amsterdam, the mayor mentions the abolition of Zwarte Piet as a matter of national interest. He says that that's why Minister Asscher was present at the last talks. In Rotterdam the SP demands that the entry will not continue if Black Piets are present. The Labour Party rightly puts forward in the written questions surrounding this initiative proposal that they impose on it from above how a folk festival should be celebrated, only knows of totalitarian regimes. She doesn't think that's part of a country where freedom is a priority. I can only read the comments of the PvdA Group that it is an attack on Mr Asscher. We see attacks from different sides, for example from the NPO, where a one-sided potpourri of Zwarte Pietheters was shown in talk programs for years. Opponents hardly speak. The Sinterklaasjournaal has been performing a salami tactic for years to ensure that Black Piet gets out of the picture. Both the one-sided talk programmes and the Sinterklaasjournaal are in flagrant conflict with the Media Act. Apparently, the NPO thinks it's his job to raise us and help us get rid of a tradition. But sometimes they're confronted with reality at the Media Park. When Paul the Lion held a vote among his audience, all the children raised their thumbs. Black Piet is black. The VARA millionaire was visibly shocked. The hatred of our Black Piet is now a lifestyle attribute of the naughty class. Actioners are blindly followed by the government and the broadcasters. Many of those activists are racially obsessed. Some people say all white people are guilty of everything. Sylvain Ephimenco called them "ethnic extremists" in Trouw. Some choose a world view where whites are the guilty. They come with vile comments after the disaster with MH17 or defend Mugabe. There are clubs from Black Panthers and Black Lives Matter clubs with violent and totalitarian sides. There are black berets and clenched fists. Kick out Black Piet! There's a travelling violent circus. There were fights at the entrance and they threatened to disrupt the party in Ahoy. During the country entrance, armed pits walked along in bulletproof vests. Our beloved bishop was crowned with stones in Zoetermeer. Is it all about Black Pete? Is it all about Black Pete? No, I'm not. According to action leader De Abreu, the Sinterklaas party remains a colonial party. The chimney is a colonial Black Piet. He's got a lot less makeup, but he's still the servant. By focusing only on Black Piets one loses sight of why the Santa Claus feast is steeped in colonial power structures. End of quote. So they're not just about Black Pete, they're about the whole Santa Claus party. Many of the activists have a much deeper racial agenda on the fight against "dominant whiteness" or they demand recovery payments for slavery. Fortunately, that's just a very small group. Mr Monasch rightly said that. The lady who has been flown in by the NPO for years to slander Black Piet does not succeed in collecting 500 signatures in the elections to participate. Meanwhile, the only party that always works for Zwarte Piet de PVV, is the most popular party among Antilleans in the Netherlands and the second party among Surinamese. In the Antilles, they're just celebrating the Santa Claus party. The Minister for Kingdom Relations will undoubtedly mention that. The self-appointed businessmen against Zwarte Piet have not yet reported. Perhaps Minister Asscher can go to Aruba to explain that they are all racists. Furthermore, the activists, supported by the government and the broadcasting sector, have been given their way. Black Piet has almost disappeared from the street and with him Saint Nicholas blows the retreat. Those who look at the brochure by Blokker read: gift time. Who goes to shops, hardly sees a reference to Santa Claus anymore and certainly no longer to Black Piet. There's no sign of him on the wrapping paper. The Amsterdam police can't see Piet alone at the station anymore. The Commissioner speaks of the Santa Claus problem. Almere's police have decreed: no cops in the photo with Black Piet. And if a baker still has a marzipanen Zwarte Piet in the shop window, an activist from daily Trouw mentions for a moment who the baker is and where he lives. Jumbo, RTL, Hema, Blokker, Albert Heijn, they all put Black Piet under the spell. And all this shit started in Minister Asscher's back room. Still, there's good news. Maybe the glass is half full once in a while. In many places Black Piet is still celebrated. At least that is still happening in Belgium. Let's hope that goes on like this and let's hope we don't get any more soot sweeps and syrup waffles. What's black must remain black. The people want it and the children want it, and we are the representatives of the people. I shall briefly go through the questions that have been asked. Mr Monasch, who has long been a member of the Labour Party, calls Mr Asscher's action drunk and misplaced. I think Mr Monasch is quite right to say that Mr Asscher should not interfere. This bill, I repeat, and this is also an answer to many questions, is precisely why we take politics away from that tradition, that we allow the citizens to retain their tradition, and that we therefore take a defensive step against all these weird actions from The Hague to ensure that Black Piet disappears. The recording of tradition is the recording of time, says Mr Van Raak. That's not true. We record a number of things that are at the heart of the current Sinterklaas tradition. That's just the core. Everything around it can change and everything will change. I congratulate Mr Öztürk on his literary abilities. One of his sentences is: Saint thought he was better than black people. I don't think that's right. Saint Nicholas lived in what is now Turkey many years ago, in Lycia. I don't know if then, we talk about the year 300, 400, Black Piet had racist thoughts. There's no evidence of that. Mr Öztürk talks about people who were our slaves. Many Europeans were now just slaves to the Ottomans. I don't know who he means by "our people," but I have the idea that he only speaks of one form of slavery, namely transatlantic slavery. He also states that Saint Nicholas is enthusiastic about abolishing Black Piet. I didn't find any evidence of that. Mr Verhoeven stated that the law polarises and politicises. The deputy mayor of this city is from D66 house and has promised that Black Piet will be abolished in a few years' time. That's polarizing and politicizing. In Amsterdam schools a subsidised action is underway, in which all kinds of people visit schools to tell that Black Piet is no good. Where did this club get his money? That's from the city council, where D66 is part of. With tax money, thanks to D66, children in schools are taught that Black Piet is no good. That seems to me to be quite polarizing and political. That the law is in campaign time, I can't help it. There were questions from the committee that had to be answered, which took a little longer. Mr Verhoeven says that this is a vote of no confidence in the debate. No, a vote of no confidence in the debate is that in backrooms our dear Black Piet is kilted. Mr Verhoeven spoke of a fabricated majority. Each survey shows that the Netherlands wants Black Piet. A secret survey carried out by Mr Asscher also shows that he spends a lot of taxpayers' money on "Black Piet" - a poor 17% of the people want to abolish Black Piet. Give the party back to society. That is exactly what this initiative law is about. Mr Rutte talks about a sense of joy and identity regarding the sinterklaas party. That is very well formulated. This is the most Dutch party we can think of. It is a pity that the VVD fights against Black Piet in many ways. I mentioned Secretary of State Sander Dekker, but there are also a lot of VVD mayors who want to destroy Black Piet. I hope that this is a turning point for the VVD and that from now on all those local VVD leaders are going to stand up for Black Piet. Mrs Voortman asks whether the rules on clothing and make-up should also apply to other people on sintering trips. No, it is purely the result of Santa Claus: it includes Black Piets, and sometimes other people also walk with them. I am thinking of majorettes and so on, but that is not what this bill is about at all. A question has been asked about sanctions. We're assuming that the government is just obeying the laws. You'd expect that, wouldn't you? My group did not intend to impose sanctions on this. Is freedom being restricted? No, that's not gonna happen. It is precisely that freedom that we retain. The aim of this initiative proposal is to stop this shady discussion, which is organised in all sorts of strange places and which is being pumped into society from the ministry by a minister of PvdA house, who repeatedly clearly states that Black Piet must disappear. Will municipalities refrain from organizing the entry? I don't see that at all. Many municipalities are happy with Black Piet for the time being, but feel the pressure of all those activists on their necks. They will be very happy when they can say that it is laid down in the law and so they simply have to enforce the law. So a lot of objections are being removed. The relationship with the colonial past, which Mrs Voortman lays down, simply does not exist. Black Piet or Black Piet-like figures exist throughout Europe and even beyond, and perhaps for over 10,000 years. There is no relationship with the colonial past at all. The PvdA Group believes it should remain a children's party. I agree. Therefore, it would be a good thing if the Labour Party would stop raving about this beautiful party and just bow down to the fact that only a tiny minority of Black Piet wants to abolish it, that the Netherlands loves Black Piet intensely, loves this child friend intensely, and that we reserve Black Piet for future generations. This initiative proposal does so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u44	I give the floor to the Minister in his capacity as advisor to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mr. Chairman. In my opinion to the Chamber, I will confine myself to an opinion on the legislative proposal as it stands. I have heard many other interesting reflections, but I would like to stay out of them on this occasion. This bill is not about the Sinterklaas party and how it should be celebrated. It's not about the color of Pete, whether he should be black or whether he could have other colors. In the end, it is a question of whether government regulations should be made in advance for expressions and presentations at folk festivals. They are being asked. That prior consent is necessary, for example on entry. It must be checked whether one meets the requirements of Article 1, namely black curly hair, gold-colored earrings, dressed in a velvety suit with puffy pants and with a head cover with a colored spring. Just now, the initiators added the shoulder drag, but that is contrary to Article 1. So I'm just gonna leave it in the middle for a moment if the shoulder drag is forbidden or optionally tolerated. The Dutch legal history has no prior approval from the government for clothing regulations. It's a long way from finding something like that anyway. I finally found one case, and I'd like to mention that. In North Korea, students are forced to prescribe the hairstyle of "the great leader." If you google on "North Korea required hairstyle," you will find 18 allowed hairstyles for men and ten for women, but it does not fit in an open democratic society that is prescribed in a law, for whatever occasion, black curly hair and red painted lips. The government therefore rejects this proposal because it violates Article 10 of the ECHR and Article 7, third paragraph of the Constitution. There is no precedent for prior approval of the dress code at a folk festival, and as far as the government is concerned, there is no such precedent. This law is killing the Constitution. We advise against that. You could have another discussion about whether Article 7 of the Constitution, which protects freedom of expression, applies here, because it concerns the way of clothing. The Council of State has considered this and argues that it has, but any doubt about it has been removed by the initiators themselves. In their further report, they stated: "A public and deviating sinterklaas celebration can indeed be seen as an opinion or position, and to be precise: a sinteringklaas celebration with colour pie is a stand against our culture." They therefore remove any doubt as to whether it is the intention of the law to seek prior authorisation from the government for the appearance of the consequence in the parade and thus for the freedom of expression. The government's been deceiving this. Finally, perhaps the contribution of the initiator might have given the impression that this law would put an end to procedures and discussions. The opposite will of course be the case, because you will immediately receive all kinds of implementation questions. For example, if a father on his shoulders, as I have done, has a child with a Black Piet Hat that does not fully meet the clothing requirements of Article 1, the letter should be dealt with by the competent authority. It will be clear that this would lead to endless hassle. But again, that's verse two. I believe that the law is in any case contrary to the Constitution. That's why I don't recommend the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u46	This brings us to the end of the first term of the initiators. I note that there is a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u47	I have a practical point. Something went wrong with my e-mail. Can we suspend for a minute? Then my motion comes up and I can read that paper instead of the iPad. I would also like to move a little later if the other spokesmen have no objection to changing the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u48	If colleagues have no objection to this, you may speak later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u49	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosma speaks of 'an orchestrated attack on our culture'. The attack on Black Piet is the most successful attack in the larger war that rages against everything that is Dutch, against our beautiful history and against everything that 90% of our population loves. Bosma says we have to draw a line in the sand. That's what the PVV is doing today: a defense wall against those intolerant, violent politicians who have ensured that armed Black Piets in bulletproof vests have to protect the children's party, because that's how it was. This initiative law is that line in the sand. It's the defense bill against those AFA thugs and those Black Piet Fighters that make the street unsafe. This initiative law is also the signal to the government not to be the fellowtraveler of those intolerant street fighters. Government, don't touch Black Pete. That's the message. That is why, as far as I am concerned, this initiative law deserves full support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u50	I see that Mr Monasch now has his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u51	Mr President, thank you for the space you gave us. I would like to thank both the authors and the Minister for the answer and the explanation. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Dutch folk traditions such as the Sinterklaas party should not be a subject of cabinet policy;]] [[asks the Cabinet that neither individual members of the Cabinet interfere with the completion of the Sinterklaas party now nor in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34078-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr. Chairman. Minister Plasterk of the Interior has rightly said that this PVV bill is failing the Constitution, the foundation on which everything is built. The PVV is trying to break up groups with this bill. The PVV tries to climb again after the polls of the last few days. The PVV is supposedly trying to stand up for "our culture" and grow a bit of nationalism in the Netherlands to exclude other people. The Netherlands does not fall for that. I think that this bill also needs no other attention than the attention we have paid to it so far. It therefore makes no sense to even say one word about this racist bill by Geert's servants in trade union K, who are trying to drive us apart. We shouldn't give them that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. This bill only responds to the laying down and increasing of all kinds of contradictions, false contradictions within our population. It's polarizing. It exacerbates the division between people in the country who want to discuss with each other, while our country craves connection, discussion, listening to each other and debate. It's government interference. It's a law imposed from above. That is not appropriate, precisely because society wants to engage in the debate. It goes against the Constitution and against the European Convention on Human Rights, as the Minister also pointed out. The PVV may want to save Black Piet, who shape as she sees him, but in the meantime she is breaking down our own rule of law. The rule of law is much more important than tradition. The debate should be much more about this than about Black Piet. That is why we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u54	Mr. Chairman. The Sinterklaas party is a children's party. In the first term I tried to outline how this children's party is deep in the soul of Dutch people, how it is experienced, how it is appreciated and how beautiful it is that children have that wonderful party, to which they can live for weeks and in which they can move for weeks. This children's party has lost its innocence in recent years. Over the past ten years there has been more and more fuss around the sinterklaas party and, yes, also more and more government interference. If we think that there are people who are destroying the party with violent demonstrations, intimidation and violence, and governments that are interfering, then the Chamber should be co-legislator and therefore government should not interfere in any way with that beautiful children's party. That's the problem. I predict: if we continue on this road, the sinterklaas party will disappear from the Netherlands. Then, perhaps with all the good intentions of the initiators, disappears precisely because of this party. For that, the Sinterklaas party the VVD is far too dear. That is why I call on everyone who is here and on all governments once again: take a step back; act normally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u55	I understand that Mrs Voortman and Mrs Vermue do not want to make use of their speaking time. Then we have reached the end of the second term of office. I'll see if Mr. Bosma can respond right away. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr. Chairman. I promised we'd keep it as short as possible. So far, so good. Thank you also to the participants in the second term and to the Minister. I thank the Minister for his judgment. Of course, it is not unexpected, because he simply agrees with the criticism of the Council of State, which includes Article 7 of the Constitution. It is clear that I fundamentally disagree with that. I have, of course, already made that clear in the written questions. Unfortunately, the Minister is confusing cause and effect. It is precisely the Rutte II cabinet that went full on the organ against Zwarte Piet: Mr Asscher with his actions in the back rooms, Mrs Bussemaker and Secretary of State Dekker. They all go full on the organ. With sneaky actions they ensure that all these weird ideas are pumped into society. They have talks with the NPO, with RTL, with all kinds of committees, etc. Then I do not hear the argument: wait a minute, we are now contrary to Article 7 of the Constitution. No, they'll just go even fuller on the organ. At every meeting in Amsterdam where Mr Asscher speaks, he says that Black Piet is going down. That's just what it comes down to. So if there is one Kim Il-sung, then that is not the Kim Il-sung on the iPad of the esteemed minister; then that is Mr Asscher, because it is tearing down the sintering cheese party, sneaky and sneaky. It is precisely this law that is trying to bring out the contradictions in society here and to discuss them here, in the national and only national parliament, and to come to a conclusion with all of us. That has nothing to do with all kinds of things that are being brought in now. The minister was still talking about a father with a hat. Is it a criminal offence? No, of course not; that is just what the initiative proposal says. That doesn't concern people in the audience. I thank Mr Monasch for his fine motion. Mr Öztürk's contribution did not rhyme this time. Ankara's long arm was not so literary in the second term, but unabated bitter. Do we have a party with roots in what is now Turkey, and then Mr Öztürk will ensure that it is abolished! What does he want? Does he want diversity, as he calls it? I don't get it anymore. Mr Verhoeven says that the Netherlands is longing for connection. Yes, indeed, but the Netherlands has been connected, for hundreds of years, to the Sinterklaas party and to Zwarte Piet. That's our connection. Our connection lies in our national traditions, many of which, like these, are hundreds of years old. That connects us. Our traditions connect us. Indeed, a source of joy and identity connects us. So let's make sure that all those VVD, PvdA, D66, GroenLinks and SP-bobos get a big slap with the rod, that we adopt this bill and that the Black Piet party is just maintained. Mr Verhoeven also said that the PVV was breaking down the rule of law. I have not heard any examples of this, but perhaps he will set a good example if Amsterdam is independent and has become a D66 republic. Mr Rutte says: if we continue, the party disappears. That is the bitter, black final agreement of this debate, I am afraid. If we keep this up, the party will disappear. I have here a leaflet from Blokker with the word "gift time" on the front. That leaflet dates from the end of November, early December. Gift time. It's that bad already. Sinterklaas has disappeared from the street. You don't see him anywhere anymore. You hardly see him in the windows anymore. He's being marginalized. A beautiful party is marginalized. This happens in many places, and in more and more places, in the Netherlands. Let's build a dam. This initiative law is that dam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u57	I owe Mr Bosma another example of how the PVV is breaking down the rule of law. The best known example is the fact that the PVV always talks about D66 judges and always goes against independent judgments and judgments of our judges, which are the basis of our rule of law. The PVV does this systematically and always. This is a clear and clear example of the fact that the PVV is breaking down the rule of law. I find that much worse than anything we've discussed here today. That is where I would like to see Mr Bosma's priority. I like to see him back in trade union K with an initiative law that protects the Dutch rule of law as the most important tradition. I thank him in advance for his commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u58	If there is one party that wants to abolish the rule of law, that is D66. D66 has transferred our power to unelected Eurocrats in Brussels, who we do not know and who we have never voted for. D66 also supports the Islamisation of the Netherlands. If they do not like the election results, Amsterdam must become a separate republic, because they cannot deal with the outcome of elections. Is that democratic or is that hiding behind the canals to experience your own equal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u59	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u60	Mr. Chairman. Before we get used to it: I think I have just heard a call to let members of political parties, who were named in particular, get 'claps on their noses'. That should happen with a rod. I'm just gonna sign this because it happened the other way around. In the more detailed report accompanying the bill, the initiators say that they believe that the government should not concern itself with the content of the Sinterklaas celebration. This is, of course, contrary to what is stated in Article 1 of the initiative proposal, because it contains a detailed dress code. So that remains the underlying reason to discourage this. I shall confine myself to an opinion on Mr Monasch's motion. He says that the cabinet and its members should not interfere with the completion of the sintering-class party. That is a very different matter. I think it is quite possible that the government may play a role in facilitating dialogue in a respectful way. That has been done, not only by the Social Affairs colleague, but also at local level. This is in no way contrary to freedom of expression. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u61	Surely it cannot have escaped the attention of the Minister that this dialogue was based on a political outcome, on a result with a certain choice? What the Minister blames others for, he has made it possible with cabinet policy by proudly proclaiming that the large majority is going to join the small minority. So isn't it the cabinet that politicized this debate? He can't stop saying it was a little dialogue. No, a political outcome was proudly presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u62	I started by saying that, in the context of this debate, I really confine myself to the opinion on the present initiative proposal. That's what it deserves. Moreover, I have not yet expressed my respect and appreciation for the fact that this is being done; that is always the case. I realize that there is a whole discussion underneath about whether this has a colonial background or not, about tradition, about racism and about social dialogue. I would suggest that we discuss all these issues with the relevant portfolio-holding colleagues. Let me now turn to the constitutional aspects of the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u63	Then the Minister will have to revise or withdraw his opinion on this motion. This is way too easy. He says the cabinet facilitates dialogue. The conclusion must be: that is true, but there is also a political outcome which has been proudly presented as such. The Minister cannot get rid of that by referring to others. Then he should withdraw the opinion on the motion and he should say: I agree with the author; we should not have interfered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u64	The operative part of the motion before us is that the cabinet should not interfere with the completion of the sintering-class party. I would point out that this interference may include providing a place for an open dialogue, as has happened before. I think it's undesirable to dissuade that. That's why I advise against this motion. In the end, it is up to the Chamber to decide how it votes. I have taken note of the fact that the signatory to the motion is in favour of it. I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u65	I don't think you're gonna come together with an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u66	What if I changed my motion to "to arrive at a certain substantive outcome"? Will the Minister then take her over?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u67	No, now we're gonna chicanize about this. I gave my opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-6.u68	Apart from the outcome of the vote, I would like to congratulate Mr Bosma, Mr De Graaf and Mr Van Zonneveld, who supported both initiators, on submitting the legislative proposal. I would also like to thank them, because I know how difficult it is to put forward an own-initiative proposal in addition to Chamber work. It is always good for MPs to exercise their right of initiative. We will vote on the bill and the motion next Tuesday.
