ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, Nieuwsuur reported that prison security is under pressure due to a shortage of personnel. For 50PLUS, this security of personnel, society and prisoners is very important. Earlier this year, 50PLUS tabled a motion that was adopted, in which we called on the Minister to focus on the optimal distribution of cells, detainees and personnel in order to improve the security situation. We therefore have the following questions. Is the new thing we are talking about, or is it in line with what we discussed at the beginning of this year? The reports now show that the outgoing staff are increasing the workload and prisoners have to stay in their cells for a longer period of time. The growing shortage, as reported by Newsuur, causes dangerous situations. What measures does the Secretary of State take to ensure the safety of personnel, society and prisoners? How many incidents have already occurred in prisons due to staff shortages? Does the Secretary of State have any idea of the effects on staff of the increasing workload? Is it true that the staff no longer have time to check the cells for contrabands in plain Dutch: contrabands which can lead to even more dangerous situations? The reports also show that the staff are afraid of closing their prisons and are therefore looking for a different job massively. Newshow indicated that 20% of the beds are empty, 3,000 beds. That would cost the taxpayer no less than 100 million. If that's true, I dare call that absurd as 50PLUS. What's gonna happen to the empty cells? The empty cells can be filled with criminals who are now free. Does the Secretary of State intend to use this much more than is currently the case and, if not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mr Krol rightly points out that yesterday's broadcast contains measures which we have also discussed here. The answer to his question as to whether this is new is no. What you saw yesterday was the effect of the letter I sent to the Chamber in May, partly as a result of the Krol motion calling for safety to be put first. In order to do so, it is wiser not to place, disrespectfully speaking, picks of prisoners and personnel in places where the net is too tight, but to concentrate the vacant position as in Zoetermeer, so that you have enough staff in other places for the number of inmates you have to guard there. The higher workload is a fact. The outgoing staff is a fact. This has partly to do with the fact that people in the workplace also see that there are more cells than there are prisoners and that there is therefore more work than for the total occupation of workers. That's how people leave. Fortunately, it is possible to recruit people now, but even then there is still tension because someone with years of experience who leaves cannot be replaced one-on-one by someone who just comes in and has to get all that experience. I can't pass on that experience. The recruitment campaign of 250 full-time jobs received 4.914 applications. 84 vacancies have now been filled and 204 candidates have been nominated to the establishments. Then it remains important that we concentrate on this and that we put these people first in places where we are currently operating and where there are staff shortages, so that we complement them first. It's still a fragile balance. Mr Krol asked if there have been unsafe situations due to these staff shortages. There are staff shortages and at the same time there have been incidents. I can't connect them one-on-one. I can't say that on that day there was a staff problem and that's why it happened. Of course, it does not help in general if we have not yet filled those vacancies. So that's something we should definitely do. I have a few more answers, but I can also see that I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	You've got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	I repeat my question to which the Secretary of State has not yet given an answer. Can he verify whether the incidents that have indeed occurred are likely to be linked to this shortage of staff and can we hear about this in the future? Prisons also appear to make extensive use of external guards from market players. Does the Secretary of State agree with 50PLUS that the supervision of prisoners and security in favour of society is primarily and should remain a public task? Can the Secretary of State state indicate what security screening external guards are currently required to undergo in order to get to work within the prison system? How much money is involved in hiring all these external guards? Why isn't this used to employ permanent staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	For certain tasks you can immediately apply external hire, so you can solve that problem immediately. For other tasks, you really have to train people and hire them internally and then it takes a little longer. One of the reasons people leave is that they question how long one could work in that particular establishment. Of course, that also means that you can't take on much more staff compared to the cell capacity you need and see filled. The exact amount involved I have the feeling that we have reported it. I am not ready right now. Either we've reported it before or I'll send it to you in writing. None of that's a problem. The staff hired outside will also be subject to security checks before we can let them do the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	In any case, I am pleased that I have received a commitment that a number of things are still being looked up. I assume that we will then be informed in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	If you look at the over-capacity of cells and the job insecurity created by them for the prison staff, how does the Secretary of State assess afterwards the construction of penitentiary facilities in recent years on the basis of pps-structures, i.e. with public-private cooperation? Wasn't that mainly carrying money to the market, and then finally over the back of job security for the staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	No, because that would imply that there would have been more criminals if we hadn't built those prisons. As a result, all the other prisons would have been full and people would not have been insecure about their jobs. Capacity utilisation is not related to whether you have a new prison, in which you have more room for new insights, even in the area of resocialization and association already during detention, or an old building.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	Second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	My supplementary question is as follows. Of course, it does matter what promises you make to certain prisons. They then have a certain market expectation, which, for example, expect 400 prisoners to be placed. As a result, there are currently prisons in other areas, in other regions where job security is already very low. This means that such a PPP structure has a major impact on job guarantees in the regions. How does the Secretary of State assess the construction of these new cells afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	I don't have a market-functioning approach to the prison system. I see the connection that Mrs Buitenweg is suggesting, so not like this. We have had to close down a lot of penitentiary facilities in recent years. In addition, we have looked at what we need for the future, and also at the quality of certain penitentiary establishments. There is also a choice for new buildings in which you can work with conditions and advanced insights in order to be able to deal better with the prisoners and with resocialisation during detention. In my opinion, these facilities are not so much built in areas where we are now understaffed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	Of course, there has been some change in the way that has happened in recent years with regard to the prison system. I also mention the fact that very well running establishments that functioned very cheaply have finally been closed down. We are now very concerned that we are being told by the staff and prisoners that prisoners are being held up and that there are now more people in prison in some places. This concentration is also very unsafe for the staff. I'd like the Secretary of State to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	Safety is paramount, so the concentration does not lead to insecurity. It could have been safer in an ideal situation. It's still a fragile balance. But if we concentrate now, for example, we do not do so for financial reasons. I'll concentrate on the empty position, but I'm not closing. So it's not like you can put something on it. With the cut-off that we have with the staff, it is purely from a safety point of view that we look at the question: how can we do it best and as safely as possible with what we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	For years, prisons have been closed and successive VVD executives have allowed well-trained staff to leave. And what do we see now? We see a shortage of staff, enormous workload and increasing insecurity for prison staff. The question that this raises is: how many more emergency calls are needed, how many more alarm bells have to go off before it is acknowledged that it is not going well? The question now is: what does it do with the confidence of the prison staff that this Secretary of State has not been able to solve these major problems in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr Van Nispen is making it very nice now. I made a proposal to the Chamber last year to find a structural solution to this. The Chamber didn't want that. I can understand that, but you can't have two things at once. Or you have just as bad news, then perspective, and then you can act. Or you have a longer uncertainty, because you sometimes don't want to bring the bad news on an individual level. In addition, there are now no shortages in staff due to the closure of prisons and layoffs. If I had kept it open, I would have had even more staff shortages. People leave on their own. That's their free choice. I'm sorry about that. People have been fired for that, because those functions are no longer there either. If I hadn't closed down five more prisons, I'd only have had more staff shortages. The cells would have been empty, too. That uncertainty is there, because we all decided here last year not to accept the plan to put an end to it and not to want something to provide a structural perspective to happen. Then you're stuck with this situation. Meanwhile, we make the best of it, but it remains a fragile balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you.
