ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u1	I received written answers from the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media to questions asked in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u2	Today we will continue with the discussion of the budget of Education, Culture and Science. I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media to trade-K. Today, the first term of office of the government is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u3	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank all the members of the Chamber for their first-term contributions. My answer will be made up of a number of cubes. First there is an introduction with a general text. Then we will talk about science, internationalism, emancipation, equality of opportunity, quality agreements, efficiency reductions, workload and green education. Mr. Chairman. It's an honor for me to be standing here. For the first time as Minister of Education, Culture and Science, I am defending my budget here today. I do so as Minister of a cabinet that invests as much as 1.7 billion in knowledge. So I'm standing here as a minister of an acquaintance's office. Investing in education and science means investing in people, in the development and in the future of our society. For a knowledge society like ours, that is crucial, to stay ahead and keep reinventing ourselves. The most striking investment is, of course, that in primary education. Mr Slob will discuss this with you later. But there are also hundreds of millions more going to science, additional resources going to technical education, resources to promote the transition to higher education and the proceeds from the study advance, which we invest in the quality of education, will be released from 2018. Mr. Chairman. There are three essential tasks for me: investing in equal opportunities for all, giving space and trust to education and shaping cooperation. Mr. Chairman. Education is an opportunity engine, but not just that. Good education is also a driving force for free thinking. Good education is aimed at broad development and education. We need to train students not only to be good professionals and innovative scientists, but also to be critical citizens and self-conscious people, to be people in the midst of society and to shape society together. As far as I am concerned, this bildungs- en liaison statement of education needs to be given fresh light again. Return thinking must not prevail. Mrs Westerveld quite rightly said that yesterday. For me, Martha Nussbaum is a very important source of inspiration. In her essay, she didn't write for profit: "If this trend, the economics of education, continues, countries around the world will deliver useful machines in a short time, rather than full citizens who are able to think independently and be critical." Education teaches young people about the society in which they are citizens. Educational institutions have a binding function, precisely because they are such important meeting places. They're places to practice and experience what it means to be a citizen. That's what you need to learn, as well as you need to learn to express your opinion coherently and with respect for others. Let us give teachers the space and confidence to stimulate conversation with and between their students and students. Of course, that sometimes leads to uncomfortable conversations in the classroom, because when you form people, it is sometimes uncomfortable. But we have to help schools do that in a safe way. That is why we are working on adapting the law in the area of citizenship, precisely to clarify it. Important principles in strengthening that citizenship mission are the values of the democratic rule of law, as enshrined in our Constitution: freedom of expression, belief and sexual orientation, as well as identification with the Dutch pluralistic society. The government must indicate the lower limit. That gives clarity to schools. Mr. Chairman. I attach great importance to good cooperation with all partners in education. This means that I want to give the important players in education a greater voice, so that students, researchers, teachers, school leaders and administrators can regain ownership. I want to talk to them, but they also need to talk to each other about what is good education and good research. The workload of students and teachers should also be on the agenda when discussing quality. Mr. Chairman. I'm joining science. I sent you a letter last week on the main direction of investment in science and research. We aim these investments in such a way that the Netherlands can remain a breeding pond of excellent science. For example, the Netherlands can continue to play in the world top of science. Hopefully we can quickly add another scientist to our beautiful honorary gallery of Dutch Nobel Prize winners. This is also how we maintain an excellent research infrastructure. This also refers, as Mr Van Meenen asked, to the digital infrastructure of SURF. I believe that an interdisciplinary integrated approach in science is very important. It is also good that researchers work together to solve societal issues. We can see that in the National Science Agenda. Mr Bruins asked about the Smart Industry Agenda and the Digital Society Research Agenda. Smart Industry is already one of the 25 routes in the National Science Agenda. I think he has also played a role in this. I agree with the importance of digitisation in our science. Digitisation runs like a thread through the National Science Agenda. Fortunately, there is already a lot going on in that area. For example, the VSNU offered me the Digital Society Research Agenda during the VSNU-Impact Festival. I welcome the efforts that are being made in this regard. Next spring, I'll come back to exactly how we're going to target these investments in science. With Mr Bruins, I share the challenges that lie ahead in the science and technology sector. The coalition agreement recognizes that task. This coalition agreement gives priority to investment in that branch of research for a reason. In my letter of 30 November on investment in science and research, I also recognised this priority. I will draw on the good experience we have with the sector plans in the investments. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming up with internationalization. The Netherlands is very well involved in the international summit of science and we would like to keep it that way. We also work together in Europe. Many Dutch students benefit from the opportunities offered by Erasmus+ to broaden their horizons. The internationalisation of research and education plays a lot. Following on from Mr Özdil's suggestion, I come before the summer with a comprehensive vision of the internationalisation of higher education, so that we can talk about it in broad terms. Internationalisation also means that English enters higher education institutions. The PVV, GroenLinks, the CDA and the SGP have each expressed their concern about the use of English in higher education. Let me be brief and clear about that. The Dutch language remains dominant and does not disappear from education, nor from higher education. The law has Dutch as its starting point, but there are also exceptions. Those exceptions are there for a reason. This discussion concerns responsible language policies with a focus on educational quality and accessibility. It is important that proper and careful consideration is given to this language policy at the level of individual training. That is also explicitly stated in the reconnaissance of the Academy. I'll take over the KNAW's recommendations, as I wrote. I will also reply shortly to the questions you have raised in connection with this. I would like to have a further debate with you on these answers. I think it's scheduled for January.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u5	That will be a very interesting debate. But in anticipation of that, of course, we are dealing with Article 7.2. That's what I brought in. I hear the Minister making a suggestion about the exception to that article of the law. That is, of course, paragraph 3, which states that English is preferred when there are large groups of foreign students. Surely it cannot be that we first set up a whole policy, which is very ideologically invested, to get as many foreign students here as possible and then say that we comply with the law, because there are large groups of foreign students. That's not the spirit of the law. That's using the law to make your own right. What about the status of that piece of legislation? I'd like to ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u6	The law is based on Dutch, but the law also gives room for exceptions. The law is basically based on customization. It is a great asset in the Netherlands that international students enter Dutch education. It is not just a question of promoting competition between higher education institutions. Students also benefit from an international classroom, as they call it, especially if they subsequently end up in a very international field of profession. Careful weighting per training remains important. For me, quality and accessibility remain paramount. Again, we need to develop a good framework for this with the Academy and the institutions themselves. I'd like to talk to you about that later. The law says "Dutch," but is also very consciously based on the possibility of exceptions and customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u7	Again, I look forward to the debate on this. But I'm getting ahead of that one more time. I mentioned Maastricht University with 52% foreign students. Is it so crazy that I think: why should Maastricht have a university if they apparently do not have enough Dutch students to cooperate? If they recruit such huge foreign students, perhaps it would be better to abolish that university altogether?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u8	Maastricht is in a border region and I think it is very good that there is free movement in the border regions between Germany, the Netherlands and Flanders. I think that is what we want to promote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would ask the Minister to be more specific about internationalisation and in particular about outgoing mobility, diploma mobility. Is she willing, for example, to increase student funding for outgoing students going to countries such as England, where tuition fees are much higher? Is she also willing to reverse the cuts on stock exchange programmes? For example, the Huygen program has been completely cut off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u10	Students can take their scholarship abroad. If we keep adapting this level to external costs, I do not think we are fully balanced. As has already been said, there is a great deal of internationalisation, such as grants and indeed outgoing diploma mobility, as promised. I don't want to pick out a few things right now. In my view, we should have a very balanced, broad policy on it. I would like to return to that in the spring. Then I will also deal with the points you raise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u11	I find it somewhat disappointing. The ambitions in the coalition agreement are very good, only the concrete impact really lacks. I think spring is actually too far away to wait for that. Students and people who consider internationalisation important now want to know from the Minister what concrete measures it intends to take to meet the ambitions of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr. Özdil, I'm asking for some patience from you. I'm here as a minister in my sixth week. The coalition agreement has many ambitions. You can't expect me to have them all worked out now. It is precisely because I take internationalisation and its importance so seriously that I want to have time to talk to students and institutions about what is most necessary and desirable. I do not want to be ticking during the debate as quickly as possible. I think that careful consideration and a good discussion with those concerned would be desirable. I'd like to get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u13	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u14	Then I'll come to emancipation. I am also Minister of Emancipation and I am very happy with that. I would like to emphasise to Mr Heerema and Mr Van Meenen that in the spring of 2018 I will inform your Chamber about the further elaboration of the Rainbow Voting Box agreement. I am very proud of the fact that we agreed in the government agreement that this whole agreement should be implemented. That is also a priority for me. I will draw up a plan with other colleagues who are also responsible for this. I also come this spring with a broad emancipation note. In that note, I will certainly pay attention to many of the issues raised by Mrs Van den Hul. For example, I will also mention in that letter the way in which I would like to address gender mainstreaming together with my colleagues in the cabinet. Indeed, you are absolutely right: gender mainstreaming should simply become policy starting points in all areas. In that note I will also go into more detail about strengthening the position of women in the labour market, so that more women become economically independent. That is where I still see a great deal of work to be done. In line with this, the cabinet is also aiming for a breakthrough in lifelong learning, so that everyone can participate fully and continue to participate in society, everyone remains sustainable and everyone can remain and become economically independent. Or become and stay: in that order of course. I will pay particular attention to the position of women and people with a migration background. The cabinet will return to this in a letter, which you will receive before the summer. Mrs Van den Hul specifically asked me about my commitment to the flow of women into science. That is an important point, because as she said: if you can't see it, you can't be it. Or something like that. Until 18 February, the call of the NWO will run for the so-called Westerdijk Talentimuls programme for the appointment of 100 additional female professors. The universities are now working on the appointment procedures for this. Of course, this requires a careful process, but they are expected to submit their proposals for the appointment of 100 additional female professors to the NWO shortly. I will continue to discuss this with the universities. It is their responsibility to work on a balanced gender balance, too, if they do not receive an additional subsidy. It is of course wonderful that they have been given that extra impetus to set an example, but it should not be the case that additional appointments of female professors only happen if additional money is available. I also expect universities to pay attention to a balanced gender balance in their appointment policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u15	Are you done with the emancipation part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have one more topic, but I saw Mrs Van den Hul standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yeah, me too. Mrs Van den Hul, would you like to interrupt now or would you like to wait? I call Mrs van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u18	I am very happy to hear that the Minister considers emancipation as important as we do. A few points ago were just about lifelong learning. I would like to ask the Minister once again not only to rely on people who work, as can be seen in the coalition agreement, but also to include people who are remote from the labour market in her consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u19	I fully agree with you on this, for example when it comes to low-lettered people, which I shall be speaking about later. It is also important, for example, that vocational education is accessible to those who are not currently working.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u20	We look forward to reading more about this in the emancipation letter, precisely because of the relationship with women's economic independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u21	When it comes to a good gender balance, I wonder whether the emancipation budget is also open to encouraging more men in primary education, with the balance being the other way round compared to what we are used to in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u22	We have said something about this in the written reply. For more men in the class a number of initiatives play. I believe that it has been said before, including in the written reply, that we are going to look at how we can promote this when the field comes up with good proposals together. Whether it comes from the emancipation budget or from another budget seems secondary to me. The point is that all kinds of small initiatives that are now being put forward come up with good proposals. We will then look in a positive way to see if we can support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u23	I do not want to ask the minister over, but I was more generally wondering whether the emancipation budget is only open to more female emancipation in a man's world, or whether the budget is also open to more male emancipation in a woman's world. But I don't know if I'm asking at the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u24	The budget for emancipation is aimed not only at a balanced distribution between men and women, but also at diversity in the broad sense. My aim is to bring the diversity that we see in the city, in every municipality in the street, back into education, in science and in any sector, in as many sectors as possible in society. So yes, diversity in the broad has our attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u25	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u26	This will then be your second interruption. No? Then proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u27	The President certainly has educational qualities, judging from the way in which she regulates the interruptions. Mr. Chairman. I have one final point on emancipation. Mr Van Meenen reminded me of the reports from Amsterdam that in the 1950s people were systematically discriminated against. There were so-called morality lists. I found it rather shocking to hear that even in the post-war period, the government systematically discriminated against people on the basis of their sexual preference. Discrimination against employees for their sexual orientation is, of course, absolutely unacceptable. It has my full attention, and also that of my colleague from BZK. We will soon inform the Chamber of the way in which we will conduct this investigation. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the block of odds equality. This cabinet is working hard to create more equality of opportunity. I will come up with legislation as soon as possible to give all new first-year bachelor students a 50% discount on their tuition fees. I hope that your Chamber will cooperate in the early adoption of this legislation. The discount is intended for new students who start their studies in higher education for the first time from the 2018-2019 academic year. With this we want to lower the threshold for freshmen to study. I also think that this is very important in the context of equality of opportunity: the transition from MBO to HBO. In addition, I am pleased to inform you that half the tuition fees for two years will be possible for all teacher training courses. This applies not only to the pabos and academic pabos on which the government agreement was based but also to all teacher training courses, i.e. teacher training courses for secondary education and the MBO. I see this as a welcome extra boost that can also contribute to reducing teacher shortages in secondary education and MBO. In reply to Mrs Westerveld, I say that students who opt for teacher training after completing a course of pedagogy will be eligible for a further year's reduction in tuition fees, in addition to the year they already received when they started training in pedagogy, provided that, of course, they were newly enrolled in higher education in 2018-2019. This type of accumulation is therefore also respected in this measure. In this context, Mr Özdil and Mr Futselaar wrongly linked the increase in student loan interest rates to the reduction in tuition fees. I understand that they want to lay this frame, but they are really two very separate policies. The reduction in tuition fees focuses on the accessibility of higher education and, on the other hand, the increase in interest rates focuses on the long-term sustainability of public finances, so that future lightnings can also benefit students from the social loan facility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u28	Let me say first of all that I am very pleased that the half-life of tuition fees also applies to the second year for all teacher training courses. I also think that this is a very good signal to people who want to go to teacher training. So really compliment the Minister for responding positively to my question yesterday. I do have a question about the institution tuition fees. Students who have completed their training must pay for a second course of institutional tuition. As I said yesterday, there is an exception for training in the education and health sectors, unless you already have completed training in one of those sectors. And that's what it's all about, students who have studied pedagogy are the people we want to go to after that. Then I find it a bit acidic that they have to pay €7,000 to €8,000 for a digital variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u29	And now the question. You don't have to summarize everything. Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u30	Yes, but it's a very complicated subject, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u31	No, the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u32	The question is: would the Minister still like to look at this in order to ensure that this high tuition fee does not apply to these students?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u33	Before we now end up describing all sorts of sometimes quite complex cases in respect of whom it is precisely true, I have already said that students who are going to continue to do teacher training get half a year. We are now going to work this all out in a legislative proposal which will come your way as soon as possible and in which we will deal with this in full precision. The case you are describing will be taken into account and considered, but I do not know if everything is possible. We are looking at how far we can go within the series set out in the coalition agreement. Of course, I have to stay within that budgetary framework, but we are doing our best to encourage as many students as possible to choose that wonderful course of teacher or teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u34	Then I call on the Minister to take a good look at Article 7.57a on legal tuition and whether she might see an opportunity to adapt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u35	We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u36	I listened very carefully to the Minister. It stated that the ten-year interest rate would be introduced for financial sustainability. That is a different story from the story we heard yesterday from a coalition party that said: it's party loans and we need to over-learn from students. My question to the Minister is whether she wants to reflect on the term 'party loans', especially in the context of a policy that first says that students should borrow massively and then seems to give the signal: there is too much borrowing, we are going to make it more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u37	I'm always here about my own answers. I know that Nibud has looked at what's going on and what students are borrowing for. I am not taking over the terminology used in the Chamber for that. I am only telling you about the frame that you put over it. I understand that you are trying, in a creative attempt, but one is really about accessibility and the other is about the sustainability of public finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u38	I asked the Minister to reflect on terms used here by other parties and she reflects on my own contribution, which I generally encourage. They are also the words of the student associations: 'cigar from its own box'. In general terms, because this is the "accessible" block, I ask the Minister: does she not agree with me that making borrowing more expensive will initially affect students who need to borrow more because they come from lower-income families, while a reduction in tuition fees that is generic will affect all students, including those from a higher income? And that both measures together make it more unattractive, especially for students from a family with less income?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u39	I do not agree with you, because the load-bearing scheme just stays in place and guarantees that students will always pay back according to their ability: only pay off from the minimum wage and then you will never have to pay back more than 4% of the income above that threshold. So for students who fall into that load-bearing scheme, not that much is actually changing. In fact, it is the students who are going to earn a very high income who are going to notice something about it. You have to hear that from the SP, don't you? Mr Futselaar also asked me about the possibilities of maximizing interest rates. I don't think that's necessary. There is already a maximum on what students have to pay back. I have just explained that to you again. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the change in interest rates, I can reassure Mr Van Meenen that this change in interest rates will only apply to new students. So the ten-year rate is only going to apply to students who aren't studying right now. I can also give Mr Van Meenen the clarification he asked for on the increase in tuition fees. The increase in tuition fees was the result of the LeerKracht action plan. When it was agreed about ten years ago................................................................................................................................................... This scheme is known for its last year in the academic year 2018-2019. From that moment on, tuition fees will only rise again with annual inflation. So, in that sense, I can reassure you on that point too. Mr Bishop asked for attention to be paid to the side-intromers in the fight against the shortage of teachers. For 2017, we have been able to grant additional applications for side-intromers, on top of the 8 million already earmarked for this purpose. In total 156 additional applications have been granted. All applications that meet the conditions in vo and p.o. but 136 applications were not granted in the MBO because of the grant ceiling. By the way, the people who had submitted these applications have already started their side-inflow route and the MBO institutions are currently paying for it themselves. A new grant application may be submitted next year for side-intromers. For the years 18 and 19, we are currently working hard to meet as many new applications as possible, of course within the framework of my budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u40	But should we not conclude that the available budget is not really sufficient and that we are thus swimming in a paddling pool in trying to take long-distance courses? Much needs to be done to raise the number of teachers. We'll put it back in schools, in the vein of: if you want it, you'll have to pay it yourself, pre-finance it, then you can apply again next year. Anyway, that pot will be empty in no time. Don't we just keep chasing the facts? In short, shouldn't the budget just go up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u41	What we want to do is to give as many side-instromers as possible the chance to actually flow in. That's why I also said that for the years 2018 and 2019, we're just going to see how we can free up money within the budget in order to honor as many side-instromers as possible. This must, of course, be done within the framework of the budget. So we'll come back with suggestions on how that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u42	That is where the problem lies: it has to be within the budget. That means that it will be at the expense of other items in that budget. Shouldn't we just take the step that the education budget needs to go up, including at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u43	In the coming years, 1.7 billion will be added, as I said. Boarding is also an art of prioritizing, weighing and making choices. We recognise with you the great importance that there is to stimulate side-instromers. We are going to see how we can encourage as many side-intromers as possible to actually do this and how we can accommodate them. That is what we are going to do within the framework of the budget. I would say: wait for our proposals. Who knows how creative we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr. Chairman. Let me return to the issue of equal opportunities, for which many Members of your Chamber have rightly called for attention. The government agreement includes several measures that will improve young people's equal opportunities. I refer to the additional investments in pre-school education and educational backwardness policies, but above all to the better transitions of p.o. to vo, from vmbo to mbo and from mbo to hbo. Along with what was already set in motion by the previous cabinet, there is therefore a rather ambitious package to promote equal opportunities in education. When it comes to equal opportunities, the MBO makes a difference for many young people. With an MBO diploma, 80% of young people get jobs very quickly. Young people who find the transition to the MBO difficult, we give the space to complete the MBO at entrance level or level 2 within a VMBO school or practice school. I'll add to that: without a snipe in the mbo. Students with talent for a course but with a problem with the general courses we give the space to obtain a professional certificate. I share the view of the ESC, in response to Mrs Van den Hul, that the MBO also plays a pivotal role in the further development of adults. There too, we must promote equal opportunities. The accessibility of the MBO is formally and legally anchored there, but practical accessibility can really be much better. I agree with Mrs Van den Hul. MBO institutions succeed in providing training that meets the development needs of adults, but not everywhere there is sufficient flexibility to ensure that the adult actually joins vocational education. That's what we're gonna look at. The development of the certificate of choice is already a good step in this respect. Mrs Van den Hul asked about the Rijkstrainee program. Her request was to open this to people from vocational education. I suggest that the Empire does a lot of work on that point too. Through the bbl we offer learning places to mbo'ers. For example, in the case of Defense and the police, we see a lot of MBO students. Large groups of MBO students are thus given the opportunity to give a flying start to their careers in the government. The government also offers a lot of space in the form of regular mbo-stages, for example at my own ministry. This is in line with the government's desire to increase the number of posts. So, as a Empire, we're working on that as well. I would like to assure Mrs Van den Hul that I am going to discuss with my colleague from BZK how we can also use the Rijkstrainee programme for MBOs. In the context of our society's appreciation of the MBO, I do not really see why we should have Rijkstrainee programmes for the HBO and the wo and not for the MBO. So I agree with her and I'm gonna do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u46	That's very nice to hear from the Minister's mouth. I would like to ask her whether she could inform us as a Chamber about its progress by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u47	I'm definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u48	I had another question about the trade certificates. I would like to know from the Minister whether she agrees with us that the trade certificates cannot replace the diploma. Citizenship, Dutch and mathematics are parts that every Dutchman must have taken to himself in order to enter society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u49	I very much agree with you. With these professional certificates, we want to honour the craftsmanship of young people who are very good at their profession, but above all stumble on the generally formal subjects, so that they can get to work on the labour market. But of course, that can't be a terminal. I therefore believe that the MBO institutions and employers have the task of jointly looking at how to ensure that these young people can then obtain their initial qualification. When it comes to lifelong learning and working well on your future, I find that, like you, very important for further steps in their lives. With the MBO institutions and the employers, we will have to look at how that takes shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you for that answer. I can see that there is still quite a bit of consultation needed in order to achieve a result. Can the Minister assure us that she will inform us when she has discussed this with the MBO Council and has a result, so that we know where we stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u51	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik, among others, has pointed out that it is easier to switch from MBO to HBO. That is a legitimate concern, and we must ensure that this transition is not made unnecessarily difficult for the young people who want it. That, of course, helps to halve the tuition fees. The new associate degree also offers opportunities. I will also continue to work for a better preparation of students in the MBO for the switch to HBO, for example through the choices. You can have choices that are specifically focused on that switch. In addition, we have asked the institutions to formulate their ambitions in this respect. The regional ambition plans drawn up by the institutions clearly show that different institutions choose a different approach, which is in line with the specific demand in their region. In order to promote cooperation in the regions for the flow of students, institutions will jointly receive 32.1 million until 2021. So that's what we're giving a big boost to. In addition, we have given 4 million for the Student 4-Students campaign. This is a programme in which students support students in this respect, for example as a role model for younger year students or to guide and encourage students in MBO and secondary education who have the desire and ambition to go to higher education. I think it is very good that we can support our own student initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u54	I think it is very good that the regions and the rocks have the space to deliver tailor-made products. But we are now dealing with generic pre-training requirements. My question was specifically whether, in addition to these generic requirements, there can also be customization by the rocks and the regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u55	I believe that we have responded to this in the written reply. That customization in the regions is possible. It is therefore also necessary to make specific agreements with the institutions. In all these things, customization really remains the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u56	We see that sometimes it leads to very crazy situations. I already mentioned the example that an MBO student can't take the secondary course in commercial economics, but a MBO student baker can. So does the Minister agree with me that sometimes that creates crazy situations that we have to get rid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u57	If there are obstacles that cannot be explained, we must do something about them. My intention here is that we should also allow students who are motivated and are very keen to make that transition, where that can be done. Of course, we have to look closely at demands that cannot be explained, but sometimes these demands are also real and help the student to successfully complete the HBO programme. I would also like to say here that we must not forget that it is also great for those students who are not passing through if they are just getting their MBO degree and getting started with it. If students want to flow through, we need to promote this, but we also have to honour those students who want to excel in their profession. Some of you have mentioned wonderful examples of excellent MBO students who provide excellent craftsmanship. I would like to thank Mr Kwint for his compliment. I don't know if that's what you usually do in this room, but I thought I'd mark it anyway. Like him, I'm actually very happy that I'm getting the chance to abolish the cascade payment. This promotes equal opportunities for students and promotes MBO schools to allow students to stack or switch to another programme. With the MBO I will develop proposals for this in the coming years, so that we can switch to another funding system as soon as possible. Accessibility of education in width remains a great asset for me, both in the bachelor's and in the master's. For selection at master's programmes, a framework for accessibility of the master's phase is being developed, together with the VSNU. I believe that this is already the subject of a debate with all of you. Mr Van Meenen asked me very specifically about the investigation into decentralised selection. He said that the research shows that decentralised selection does not lead to better study results. I would like to say that, of course, it is not just about study results, but also about the right student in the right place. But I do agree with Mr Van Meenen that decentralised selection also entails risks. Think, for example, of unwanted self-selection, especially in groups that are already under-represented in the selection courses. I think it is too early to draw any conclusions on this. We have just had one year of full decentralised selection and there are also positive results: students who are better prepared, more motivated and more aware of their choice. I am going to closely monitor the effects of this decentralised selection, because with you I have concerns about that. I think we will be able to discuss this in greater detail at the end of January. But I am going to follow it closely, because I believe that there are certainly risks involved. Equality of opportunity also calls for attention to be paid to the low-literate. Training for this group should not be a school, so that people dare to take the step to develop. In reply to Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van den Hul, I say that I am talking to my colleagues in Social Affairs and VWS about the follow-up approach to low literacy after 2018 and about lifelong learning policy; these two are of course linked. In the coalition agreement it was agreed that the structural budget of 5 million would be increased, but I hope, of course, that the Social Affairs and VWS colleagues will continue to join me so that we can make full use of this. My commitment is to continue this policy in the years to come, so that we can reach even more low-class people. Mr. Chairman. I'll be on the block of quality agreements. I want to work from space and trust for good cooperation. I want to conclude sector agreements with MBO and higher education in early spring and come to quality agreements with individual institutions later in 2018. I would like to stress once again that I am really concerned with quality agreements, not performance agreements. It really has to be quality agreements. I actually want to roll over the whole process. These quality agreements must come from the bottom up and be the result of cooperation between directors, teachers, students, researchers and external partners. That requires us all to give space and trust. Within the institutions, partners must agree on how to work together on quality. After all, it is a question of funding from the students, who have been promised that they will be used for quality. I think it is very important that agreements are made within the institutions on how they want to achieve this. That dialogue between institution and participation and between institution and employers in the environment should form the basis for these quality agreements. The same goes for the MBO. We must therefore have time to plan together and set targets. Giving time is crucial. At the moment, I am talking to the various parties about how we are going to shape these quality agreements. I will inform you in the spring of this year, when it comes to these sectoral agreements, of the exact way in which they take shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u58	The Minister has not indicated that he has a block of 'democratisation' and I would therefore like to comment on one of her written answers to this block. These quality agreements require good democratic institutions within the institutions. I asked the Minister how she sees university newspapers and high school newspapers and their independence within that process. I found her answer somewhat disappointing, firstly because she only mentions university newspapers as important, although I think she also meant that of colleges. But above all because she actually says: I think it is very important, but it is from the institutions themselves and I am not going to interfere. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I have to sum it up. I think this is important. We see this in Groningen, for example, where the university has very strange plans in China and is flogged back by participation, partly because of the critical articles that appear there. I do not think the Minister can just say that this is up to the institutions. I think she should at least talk to the institutions to remind them of their duty and, for example, to make agreements on guaranteeing independence. Doesn't the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u59	It is good that Mr Futselaar raises that question so that I can emphasise where I stand in the democratisation of universities and colleges of applied sciences. I attach great importance to a fairly academic climate. University newspapers as well as newspapers play an important role in the institutions in HBO. Students should be given the opportunity to make a critical sound. I do believe that it is primarily up to the institutions, but if I get any signals that academic freedom and the democratic environment within an institution are insufficient, then of course I have a role to play in addressing the institutions, also in view of what is contained in the Higher Education Act. If that is necessary, I will certainly do so, but in the first instance it is up to institutions themselves to ensure that. They have the responsibility. But if they don't fulfil their responsibilities, I'll be sure to let them hear from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u60	I find that encouraging. I also do not rule out the fact that I will occasionally stand here with a case and ask: is the Minister not going to intervene here? I have also spoken in the debate about training committees and the problem that fees for students in particular are quite different. You did not return to that in your written reply. I am not in favour of imposing what colleges and universities should give their student members, but I would be happy if there was a signal that at least there should be something of a fee, because the differences are now very large in practice. That too, I believe, is important in the process of democratization.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u61	I think we should make a difference here. You use the word "must," but I used the words "can." This is about the funds of the profiling fund. Rules are laid down within the institution on how these resources can be used. If a student gets late due to the work of a training committee, because it has a large time span, it can be agreed within an institution that this will be reimbursed. I do not believe that all training committees have a job to do in such a way that this is necessary. This really is a subject for discussion within the institution. It is possible, but it is not up to me to say here: it must be done in all cases. Mr. Chairman. The necessary questions have also been asked about the efficiency reduction. First of all, let me stress that this cabinet invests a huge amount of net 1.7 billion in education and research. Unfortunately, however, we also received a legacy from the previous cabinet in the form of a mandate, a task which the previous cabinet continued to postpone for itself. In the coalition agreement, that mandate has been substantially reduced and we have been given more time to resolve it. We are doing this in the form of an efficiency reduction that will fall in the education sectors. That's gonna hurt somewhere. Mr Slob and I will talk to the educational field about how we are going to do that. We have, I say to Mr Kwint, a joint task to ensure that it falls down as little as possible in the primary process. I agree with Mr Beertema on this point. Sometimes, in education through the administrative trees, we can hardly see the forest. I hope that there will be a profit in completing the efficiency reduction by cutting in the woods of consultation. I challenge the educational organizations to think very creatively with us. But we can't expect everything from that. It will only narrow the hole and not be able to fill it completely. In short, we still have a lot of research and consultation work to do here. We are now working on this with the sectors, as I have also described in the letter of amendment submitted to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr. Rudmer... Lordema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u63	Only the first name is allowed, Mr. Chairman. That's what I usually get addressed to. I thank the Minister for this answer. I'll come back to the sector-wide arrangements. It is good that the Minister states that external partners can also be involved. We're happy about that. Under these sectoral agreements, the results of the quality agreements will be returned in the spring. Does that have any financial consequences? Do you have the room to say: if we make these agreements, then we can also draw consequences if it does not work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u64	In my opinion, Mr Heerema used the words "space" and "confidence" in his contribution. This is about the use of the study advance funds. We want to shape the process horizontally, so that the environment, students and co-determination are fully involved. First of all, we must express our confidence that there will be a horizontal approach to ambitious and good agreements at the decentralised level. I regret that you always stress the question: if you do not think it is enough, should sanctions be imposed? I'm from education. You also know that in education, rewarding pedagogics tends to work better than punishing them. Above all, I want to show that I want to give that confidence. And yes, we agreed in the coalition agreement that these agreements will be independently tested, but I do not intend to adhere to them by saying: if things are not going well, then I am going to get money back from you. It is about the use of future resources. Of course, that's the prospect. Those who do this very well know that they can rely on a fair share of those resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u65	Your third interruption. No, your second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u66	I think it's okay to interrupt in two. In my speech, I said very clearly: space and trust comes together with responsibility. Now, let's continue with the responsibility. If we give room and confidence to the institutions, it must be their responsibility to tackle them properly. I also gave an example in my speech in which we made an ambitious agreement, albeit in primary education, which was not achieved at all. Even less results have been achieved. That is why it is not surprising that the VVD asks: if things are not going well at some point in education, then it is not surprising to say that the consequence will be that we will see if we can achieve results in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u67	We are dealing here with agreements on the study advance funds. We have agreed that the institution will make plans for this in consultation with participation. When these plans come, we know that participation has agreed to that. What I will be critical of is when an institution comes up with agreements, and I see that participation has not been good. Then there's really something going on. But who are you and I to come up with a plan, if an institution in cooperation with participation, with the environment, with teachers, with researchers, with students, which they all say will find a good commitment to this institution for this year, then say, here in The Hague, that we had a different ambition for them anyway? I don't think that's a good idea. So, yes, I will be very critical of the decentralisation of the process, but I do not intend to dictate to each institution exactly how to shape the quality there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u68	The minister mentioned the administrative forest of Bertema. I do believe that there is a lot of money to be gained there, but something before that she talked about what Mr Van Meenen said yesterday about the hole in Asscher's budget, the gap in the budget that this new cabinet found. I understand that, and I will not use it against this cabinet, but if the solution is an efficiency reduction and we are going to talk about it and we are going to try not to let that go at the expense of the primary process, then I am going to worry. Of course it is good to talk and see if things can be done more efficiently, but if you look at, for example, primary education and secondary education and how the workload there is on the work done by the masters and teachers, can the Minister promise that they will not pay the bill for this gap in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u69	I think Mr Kwint has described our dilemma very well. Yes, we share with him that we want that to be as minimal as possible in the primary process. But I also see the numbers. Let us therefore see where we can delete things that do not affect the primary process and which perhaps also provide a little more cutting in that forest of the large number of administrative, and are creative in that too. I really challenge the sectors to think with us. However, I cannot guarantee this at the front. I'm just looking at the number that it says. This must be completed and I do not know whether we will find sufficient measures to say that this does not affect the primary process. If you look at those numbers, I think you will also say from your realism: that will be a very complicated task.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u70	That's exactly my fear. If the Minister is going to talk about doing something about that Bertema forest, so to speak, she will find me by her side, but if the outcome is eventually: we are going to solve this problem by interfering with the financing of the primary process, teaching it, then I would rather we come back here again in the Chamber and see if we can't solve it in a better way. I think the pressure in education at the moment is too great to go over it again with that famous cheese bowl.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u71	I am bound by the agreements contained in the coalition agreement. I also challenge Mr Kwint to make good suggestions for solutions that do not affect the primary process. He is very welcome to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u72	At least I have that suggestion when it comes to Bertema's administrative forest; thank you very much, Mr Kwint, I will keep that expression in mind. You want to talk to that educational polder and work towards a form of self-regulation or something. You can't be serious. I think you speak very nice and warm words, but you are really not so naive. You know that every bureaucracy has only one purpose, and that is to maintain itself. We had a PO Council, an MBO Council, all those domes that also need to unite in the Education Foundation. What is the added value of such a Foundation of Education, except that it will do your job? That's what I'm always afraid of. We shouldn't talk to these foundations, but we should talk to them ourselves...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u73	Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u74	... determine what makes sense and what doesn't. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u75	Before I give the floor to the Minister: Mr. Beertema, we have just agreed that the interruptions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u76	That was short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u77	That was short for you to do. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u78	I would like to say to Mr Beertema that I am so in agreement that I will first consult with the sector and appeal to their reasonableness. But in the end, as a minister, you take responsibility. Then it will be up to Mr Slob and I to make our choices, which we will present to you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u79	An example: the Reading and Writing Foundation, which aims to create low literacy. They do that very well, they have grown from 5 to 120 men in a few years. I'll give you that. Don't be naive: they don't talk to themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u80	We'll take the suggestion. Mr. Chairman. I come to the workload, and of course also to the workload in the MBO and the hours standard. We can see that in recent years the MBO has made a strong effort to improve quality. I have to say, with results. The quality in the MBO is in order and continues to increase. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that the workload in the MBO is also a topical issue. Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Westerveld rightly drew attention to this. I also see that the social partners in the MBO take this up and work together on a healthy labour market. Those are good steps, but I also want to make a contribution. Mr Van Meenen asked me to look at the hours standard in the MBO as part of the workload. For MBO courses there is already the possibility to deviate from the hourly standard if the quality is in order and the student council agrees. My picture is................................................................................................................................................................................................ So I will talk to the MBO about how to make more use of the existing option, but also whether it is necessary and useful to broaden the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u81	I must interrupt you for a moment, otherwise it is a shame, because no one listens anymore because there is a very strange sound coming from somewhere. I hear from a security guard that there's a door squeaking. Convenient during budgetary treatment. Is that short-lived?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u82	I think we need an MBO to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u83	A solution to the problem is being sought. Do you mind if we wait a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u84	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u85	'Cause it would be a shame for everyone to... Look, the opportunity is being abused right away. I'll suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u86	I'll give the Minister the floor. She was actually already talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad we have mbos who can fix a squeak like that. In order to ensure that it is not lost, I repeat my commitment to Mr Van Meenen to look at how, in the MBO, we can bring even more attention to the room available to deviate from the hourly standard, so that more use can be made of it, where that is useful. But I'm also going to see if we need to extend that space even further, so that there is more room for innovative education, but also for reduction of workload. In the case of workload, everyone immediately looks at rules and administrative burdens. In practice, we notice that people sometimes see obstacles that are not there or are no longer there. Mr Heerema asked if the brochure Space in Rules, the beautiful pink booklet of the inspection, which creates more clarity in this, could also appear before the MBO. Mr Slob has the book with him. I can inform Mr Heerema that we embrace that suggestion. We are already working on a similar booklet for the MBO, so that there is a clear picture of what the space is and how much space there is. In addition, because the booklet is a reference work, we think about a live contact point, where institutions can answer with all their questions about the rule pressure, so that they immediately get an answer to the question whether a rule exists or not. Mr Özdil established a relationship between the workload in the MBO and the education agreement. Mrs Kuik also mentioned these agreements. Behind your questions I hear the desire to treat MBO students no differently than other students in higher education. I share that wish with you, which is in fact very much in line with the abolition of the educational agreement and the legal status regime. A study is now being carried out into the usefulness and desirability of the individual educational agreement. That research is scheduled to be completed in the spring of 2018. I'm gonna wait for that investigation, but I'm gonna see if we can take concrete steps. But I share the wish with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u88	I would like to thank the Minister very much for sharing the concerns of Mr Kuik and myself about the education agreement. These concerns are also confirmed by the research of the Free University we are talking about. I understand very well that the Minister wants to await her research, but is it not more convenient to take steps to abolish that education agreement, because the VU's research has already answered a lot of relevant questions, so that we no longer have to wait?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u89	I understand from your interruption that you are an impatient man, but I have also initiated an investigation on this subject at the request of the Chamber. Then I think it's so neat and careful that we'll wait and see. If we are going to change such a system of agreements, we must do so with care. We also need to make sure that we don't throw the baby away with the bathwater. So I really want to take a good look at that, but I have heard you and Mrs Kuik very well. And again, I share with you the wish that we should not treat MBO students differently from other students in higher education. On that point, Mrs Westerveld made a very good point and asked a very good question. She asked if we could not get rid of that distinction between low and high-skilled people and whether we could not even talk about 'people with practical training' and 'people with theoretical training'. I actually find that a very pleasant suggestion, because in the terms 'low' and 'high' for many people also sounds a certain appreciation for what they are doing. I think it is quite right to say that it is not a good thing that we do so in society. So Mr Slob and I are going to see how we can respond more to your suggestion in our language and terminology, because I really like this suggestion very much. Finally, in the 'work pressure' block, there is something about the workload in higher education. I share Mrs van den Hul's analysis that this workload naturally runs through all sectors. She referred in particular to young teachers in higher education. She also pointed out that part of this workload also stems from uncertainty due to the many short-term employments. Providing greater security for young teachers in higher education is, of course, primarily an issue between employers and employees, but fortunately, it has also been agreed in the Dutch universities' collective agreement that employers will reduce the percentage of temporary employment, four years or less. This is also addressed in the collective agreement of the colleges. I also expect investment in the quality of education to be made with the proceeds from the study advance. The appointment of teachers will, of course, have to be given priority. I believe that this will also have a positive effect on the workload in higher education. Mr. Chairman. I am almost at the end of my contribution, but I would like to talk about the new branch of the Ministry: the arrival of the green education to OCW. I see this as an opportunity, because green education is a very good example of how education, business and government work closely together and feed and grow each other. It is also a good example of how VMBO, MBO and higher education work together and form a single system. As far as I am concerned, that should remain the case. Mrs Kuik and Mr Bishop asked about the financial consequences of the transfer of green education and the possibility of dealing with these consequences. We have recently sent a letter on this matter to the Chamber, in which we are also discussing the harmonization of funding. This harmonization of funding requires a careful process. That harmonisation will take place on 1 January 2019. So we are going to finance green education in the same way as the other education. It's not possible before. About the details of this we will notify your Room as soon as possible. Mr Bishop asked the question whether it would be possible to compensate for this before 2018. My answer to that is: no, unfortunately that is not possible, because I simply do not have the financial space for that. Finally. Mr Wassenberg had another question about the BPRC.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u90	Before you continue, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u91	Still, about the green education. It was agreed with the sector that the harmonisation would take place on 1 January 2018. That commitment and those commitments are there. Then I don't think you can make it anymore as a government to say: we don't have it ready before then and so it will be 1 January 2019. You can't push that forward for a year. There's one more thing. I am not asking for it to be settled before 1 January, but I am asking for it to be carried out retroactively if necessary, so that careful harmonisation can take place in peace and quiet. That's one point. Then there is the second point. Should this harmonisation also take place within the budget or will additional money be available for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u92	I think you can very well read a series of numbers in a coalition agreement and a budget. Then you have also seen very well that, except for repairing the 10 million deficit at EZ, there is no extra money. We also know that harmonising funding will cost extra money. I don't have any extra resources for that. We will do that harmonisation financially as of 1 January 2019. I really cannot do it sooner, also because the letters of funding to the other institutions are already out of the way. I would find it administratively indecent to the rest of the field of education to come back to that now. So this is how it goes. Within the framework that exists, I see no other option but to do so as proposed at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u93	Nor should the Minister be asking me to send a letter again and therefore to withdraw and amend the letter of funding. That is not my plea; I have made that clear. But if I listen carefully to the Minister, this means that the other education sectors are actually going to cough up the 50 million that she is still short on to harmonise green education. I really wonder: what are we doing? Then we can be proud that the green education comes to the Department of Education, but this really has something of a kind to stay in the atmosphere, a cat in the bag, you know. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u94	I think this was mainly a qualification and not really a question. I've explained what's going on. That's how it is, and within those frameworks, I have to operate. Mr Wassenberg asked a question yesterday about the BPRC. He asked me to respond to the wishes of the Chamber to conclude the trials on monkeys at the Biomedical Primate Research Centre in Rijswijk. Let me say here that I share the wish of the Chamber to finish this. But I also see the importance of research into new and better treatments of diseases such as Alzheimer's, AIDS, malaria and MS. Let me be very clear: I too would like nothing more than to stop animal experiments in general if they are not necessary. Actually, we're seeing more and more of the latter. This is also mentioned in the Rathenau recommendation From monkey to better. For the summer of 2018, I will elaborate on those advices from the Rathenau Institute and on the routes outlined therein. I also think it is important not to sit still in the meantime, so I will work with my colleague from Agriculture on a transition path of animal-free innovation with the aim of making the Netherlands the leader in this field. Mr President, that was my share of the answer. With your permission, I would like to hand over the stick to Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u95	Thank you to the Minister for the answers, but I have not actually received any answers to my questions. Of course, that could be because I kept addressing "the minister," so you two might not know which one of you I was addressing. I would ask the Minister to reflect on the term'sustainability'. I was really pleased that she quoted and quoted Martha Nussbaum as a source of inspiration; that is good news. I would therefore like to have a reflection on that. Then I have another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u96	You have asked a number of questions about how sustainability should take shape in the curriculum. I believe that we have discussed in the written answer how this will be included in the discussion on the new curriculum. You have also asked for cooperation between MBO and higher education and sectors, and for the way in which working in a more sustainable sector can play a role through the routes there. Look, what we see and what I encourage is that both in MBO and in higher education, in the region there is a good look at what social challenges there are and how education and research can respond to them. We all know that it is one of the biggest challenges facing this cabinet and all of us to achieve the Paris climate objectives. This means that sustainability is no longer a separate sector, but needs to be integrated into all those sectors that exist. I expect them to pay attention to this, especially from vocational training. Whether it's car technology, food or green education, it's going to have to come back in the curricula that sustainability is an essential part of our future society, and therefore also of our education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u97	I am very pleased with this answer. I will ask the other minister some specific questions about the curriculum for economics, but that will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u98	I now give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u100	Oh, no, there's the beep again. It has nothing to do with you, you know. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u101	We're gonna need a vmbo or a mbo guy who's gonna get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u102	Maybe we should wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u103	I thought the beeping was over, but no. It'll take a long time. Can we just keep squeaking in the background? I'll give the Minister the floor. If he feels like things aren't going well, he's gonna have to say so, 'cause I'm gonna suspend for a while. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr. Chairman. That sound sounds very familiar by now. It's a bit of a part of it. Mr. Chairman. It is special to me that we should now be in charge of primary and continuing education and the Media in this budgetary process. With my colleague Van Engelshoven I have the right to assume administrative responsibility for what I have called the Ministry of the Future. And that in the special year of remembrance 2017, the year we are allowed to reflect on 100 years of educational pacification, the equalisation in funding that makes it possible for parents of that time and also parents of today to opt for quality education that suits their beliefs. But 2017 is also the year of the commemoration of the 600th anniversary of my fellow cityman Johan Cele. He was involved in the movement of the Modern Devotion and for 38 years rector of the Latin School in Zwolle. There he renewed education in a way that made name all over Europe. He enrolled students in age groups and took transition exams and he also took............................................................................................................................................................................................. Poor students were taught and sometimes also sheltered. Inspired by people like Johan Cele and the freedom of education, I want to be minister in the coming years. I cherish the quality and diversity of our education, but I also want to renew and improve where that can be done. That will also be necessary, given the many challenges that come to us in our time. In my view, all this should be centred on the pupil, who is about 1.5 million p.o. students and about 1 million pupils in our country. I repeat, Mrs van den Hul: every child may be there, even if for some reason you are something else. They're all unique creatures. We'll do it for them. I always like that from the mouths of the teachers and the teachers in the p.o. And to hear it. That happened at the time I was a Member of Parliament and it happens again when I visit the schools as a ruler and ask why they do this. Each time that is in different terms the motivation for their work. Parents entrust their children to them and they do their work with a great heart for children. I think it's okay to say that out loud here for once. The teachers and teachers in primary and secondary education deserve our appreciation and respect for the important and not always simple work they do. I also find it special to see at this time how this professional group, wherever I come from, shares a number of Members of Parliament who are increasingly showing and hearing with me. This is evidence of an adult and professional attitude. Although they do not always make it easy for me in my present role, it fills me with some pride. Teachers and teachers are crucial for good education. The same applies to educational support staff. Think about the teaching assistants. Mr Van Meenen rightly mentioned the janitors yesterday. Those are the eyes, ears and hands of a school. If you want to know how it goes in a school, it's always good to talk to them. School leaders are also crucial for sailing and sailing within a school. They can also have a huge positive effect on reducing the workload. I'll come back to that separately later. I heard a school leader two weeks ago at one of the school leaders who were there, proudly saying: I am the heat shield towards my teachers. That's true. If school leaders do their job well, it can keep a lot away from teachers so that they can concentrate on their core tasks. School administrators also play an important role. It is not for nothing that the renewed inspection is starting with them these days. Madam President, I feel a great urgency as a leader of primary education and secondary education to work with teachers, school leaders, administrators, educational support staff and with you as a Chamber. We must stand up for the education of those about 2.5 million children who are subject to compulsory education in our country, with respect for each other's distinct responsibilities and with appreciation for what everyone does in their place or in their place. We also need to keep each other sharp where necessary. Of course, the latter can also happen in my direction. For you as a Chamber that is even a main task within your activities. Madam President. I would like to answer the questions I have been asked in three blocks. A large part is written off. On some I come back to the cubes. I would like to focus on secondary education and primary education, and I would like to address a number of cross-sectoral issues. If it is right, you have also been given some sort of roadmap for my response. First of all, secondary education. This is a beautiful sector. Every year we get the State of Education from the inspection. The last person you had came in April of this calendar year. In a few months, we'll have another one. We're looking forward to that. Then you will also see that the sector is well placed. Work is hard, quality is delivered and there are also good exam results. You have read in the coalition agreement that we want to further strengthen this sector. We want to make sure that there is more room to deliver tailor-made work, so that there are opportunities for further education to develop. Think of measures such as the 10-14 schools, the curriculum review and experiments with multiple subjects at a higher level that can also be anchored in the diploma. Think also of strengthening technical education. I will come back to some of these issues later. These are things that secondary education itself has asked for. It has asked politics to work with it and to give that space. In the coming period we will work on this. I also see it as a challenge to try to take these matters forward and not wait longer than is necessary. This brings me to a subject raised by Mr Van Meenen, among others, but also by Mr Heerema and Mrs Westerveld, namely the whole debate on the workload and development time in secondary education. I had a bit of an aha-erlebnis when I was having this discussion yesterday. We are, of course, entering into a discussion that has been going on for a long time in the Chamber, namely the discussion about the teaching time, about the 1,040 hours. Ten years ago, that was a really big subject. In fact, I think there are some of my predecessors sitting up in bed in the middle of the night and thinking back to that discussion. I can at least think of one that might happen to this. By the way, he tried to tackle this in a very good way. We know that this discussion has also developed. In the previous cabinet period, choices were made for the hourly standard. This is no longer fixed per year of study, but per sector. Then you can spread some information about the programme and all the years that go with it. This came into force two years ago. This was a further development of the National Educational Agreement that was concluded. For the various sectors, VMBO, HAVO and VWO, the hours for the total number of years of learning are fixed: 3,700 for VMBO, 4,700 for HAVO and 5,700 for VWO. The big question now is: how are we going to fill that out? What space do we offer to teachers? Mr Van Meenen has thrown another decent stone into the pond. We remember that from the previous cabinet period. That's when he did the same thing. Can we give some more time for class preparation, for the development period, for tuning with colleagues? Then teachers really have to spend less hours in front of the class, insofar as teachers are still in front of the class today. In this respect, too, the necessary work has been done in education. Mr Van Meenen said literally in the debate on time and quality: there is too much thought in time and too little in quality. But then in the Chamber there was a nice discussion. You were all there. Mr Rog was quite quick to stand at the interrupting microphone. He said, "Okay, but what are we gonna delete? If you think less should happen, then you should also delete. Then there's always the exciting question of what we're going to delete. Then we are also in the middle of the discussion about what education is for. Are we just going to promote the basic skills, or is there room for other subjects and subjects that we consider important and with which we would like to reach and further form those 2.5 million children who enter the school on their feet? I think it's a good thing we're going to take this issue further in the next few days. I am prepared to consult within the possibilities that are already available, if necessary, but I am also curious how the Chamber itself sees the follow-up. You can come back to that in the second term. So I would like to talk to the secondary education sector, to LAKS and all the other stakeholders involved, to look more closely at the possibilities already offered by the current legislation. There really can be more than this. But there is also some fear, which I understand in view of the discussions in the Chamber over the last few years about education time, to fill that space. Let's continue the conversation about how we set up the development period. It can also have a very positive effect on reducing the workload of teachers. We need to look within existing regulations at what is possible and where it can encourage schools to use that space. 'Cause it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u105	It's good to hear the Minister talk about this like this. He understands very well what this is about and what it touches. That reassures me. I understand that the current regulation is the starting point for the discussion, the starting point as it were, but I would point out the difference with the MBO. The rules are actually the same, but in the MBO schools already have the possibility to deviate if there is a substantive story about the quality of education and the wide range of offers. Also in the MBO it is not said: if you deviate from that 1,000-hour standard, you can leave the formation of citizenship. No, then a school still has an obligation to do it all. It may be a little early for this question to the Minister, but is he finally willing to let quality go for time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u106	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u107	If it turns out that these regulations are too limited at the moment, is he prepared to take further steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u108	I want to be careful when discussing quality and time, because you can get stuck in that too. Of course, you need time to deliver quality, but I believe Mr Van Meenen himself said yesterday that there are sometimes differences. One student is not the other; for one you sometimes need more time than for the other. You can also put students to work in all kinds of other forms of work where a teacher does not need to be present one-on-one. So let us discuss this with each other. I ask you not to run too fast again and to ensure that your colleagues are able to keep up. In this way, we can look at it in broad context with the responsibility we, as legislator and co-legislator, bear for the content of education, the core goals and what we consider important to know and can do with each other. This cabinet would like to offer space and schools the space to deliver customized work. I think that we can take some very nice steps in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u109	The call to me not to run too fast, I take heartily to myself. That is something in which you can fully trust me; I am really not going to do that. But I'll keep going. I'll keep going. My stamina is excellent. I'm not giving up either. It applies to both directors: I am very confident that this care has been well spent on them. I'll take a look at how I'm going to proceed with this, but let's have that conversation. I look forward to it. You know my perseverance at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr Van Raan, because that was a remark, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr President, Mr Van Meenen's persistence on this subject has not escaped me, but many in secondary education have not. It would indeed be very nice if we could take steps with each other within the space that is already there and explore to the maximum which space we may need extra. Let's do that process with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u112	In our contribution we have also mentioned the aspect of the inspection of schools, in the sense that it is not really a parameter in assessing the workload and well-being of the teacher. The question was whether the Minister was prepared to take this with him. Strangely enough, this is not at all part of the inspection; it is left to the workers, as if the workload and well-being of the teachers had nothing to do with the quality of teaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u113	We have just established inspection supervision with each other, and that has only just begun. So I am not going to do that right now, but I do agree with Mr Van Raan that it is important that when we talk about reducing workload, we also make it clear how we are going to take action. I will come back to this in a separate way when I come to primary education. I think we need to look for a form that is not suddenly going to be extremely burdensome for schools, because they are already succumbing to the bureaucratic burden of accountability. The point is that there is transparency about what is happening in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u114	I hear new inspection standards have just been set. Then it seems obvious to me that this will also be evaluated within six months. Perhaps that is the time to look at the aspect he has just mentioned. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u115	Six months seems very fast to me. I think the evaluation has been agreed. At the moment when there is an evaluation, the Chamber is involved and everyone is free to bring in what they consider necessary. I think Mr Van Raan is so assertive that he will make his points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u116	Six months is too early, but can you say about a term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u117	I do not know what exactly was agreed in the law when it comes to evaluation, but at the time the evaluation is there, this is a subject that we are going to discuss with each other. Now give the schools and also the inspection that has just started, some space to do the work that you, as a chamber, as co-legislator, have instructed them to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u118	Mr Van Raan, perhaps you can come back to this in the second term, otherwise you will have to turn in all those interruptions. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u119	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to room for tailor-made work, Mr Heerema has drawn attention to one of the aspects that has indeed been agreed in the coalition agreement, namely that subjects can be concluded at a higher level. That is basically space that is already there and which fortunately is being used more and more. The beauty of it is that this now also gets a place on the diploma. So if a havolator who is very good at mathematics takes an exam in mathematics at vwo level, that can also get a place on this person's diploma. This also does justice to the efforts that this person has made. Under my predecessor, a pilot has been launched, which is something that has already been shared with the Chamber about the right to customization. These are 30 schools that see to the maximum what they can do with customization and what space they need. That will continue in 2018. I am also very interested in the results of this pilot and in what these vanguard schools will achieve in terms of creating space and taking up the opportunities to deliver customization and applying flexibility in return. As soon as I get the results, I'll share them with the Chamber. Then we can see from our responsibilities what follow-up steps might be taken to the rest of the education system. Madam President. Technical education in VMBO is also a subject brought forward by several MPs yesterday. I think Mr Bruins started it and he made it very visual by saying: I really want children to be able to go on a bike to the technical vmbo. It is well known that the coalition agreement has agreed that we will work with the technical VMBO. Money has also been made available. I am already in the process of preparing for consultation with the VMBO itself, but I think it is good to include MBO as well as business representatives; in the end we also want those who are technically trained to get a place too, preferably in their own region, in business, which is almost literally shouting for technical staff. As soon as we have a little more focus on how we can spend it, as far as I'm concerned, that will come back to you in 2018 and I will inform you about it. I do agree with Mr Heerema, who explicitly indicated: be careful with all kinds of intermediaries. I think that's what he literally said. That is also a point for myself, because my colleague, too, has just mentioned it in education, you see so many organisations which all have their places and which are undoubtedly doing very valuable work. But we must, also with each other, make sure that this is not going to be more than is strictly necessary. When it comes to technical vmbo, I think that this can also be organized very well from the Ministry, in consultation with the parties I mentioned and also using parties that are already active at the moment. Think of the Technics Pact and Top Technology in operation, which are also ongoing initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u120	I am very pleased with this answer. I trust the Minister with no reserve to direct this process. Indeed, the fewer intermediaries, the more money there will be for technical education. So I'd really like to get to work with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u121	I see that as a nice encouragement! The teacher register has returned in a number of contributions. Mr Beertema asked about it, Mr Heerema, Mr Rog and also Mr Van Meenen. Maybe I'll skip a few, but it's a subject that's not new either. For this too is, perhaps a bit similar to that on education time, an ongoing discussion on which much debate has also been held during the previous cabinet period under the Professional Teacher's Act. The dust has only just descended, so to speak. This cabinet has made a clear statement in the coalition agreement, even when it comes to the teacher register. We want it to be from, for and by the teachers. I would stress that here in my first term, also in the direction of the Chamber. I myself had the representatives from the teacher register with me last week, the delegation of the participants' meeting, I must say very officially. This was a particularly interesting meeting, where a wide range of teachers were present, including teachers who contributed with a very critical approach. But that's good. It is always good to organise counter-forces in such bodies, because that also brings the discussion to a much higher level. Then there'll be sharpness. If we're all chasing the front, we certainly won't get there on this subject either. So there's a sharpness in the discussion, that's good. I have noticed, however, that I have allowed myself this boldness because I have also been away for a while that a somewhat false start has been made on this subject. Now I'm a very optimistic person. I'm also a huge athletic fan. Last week I used the example of athletics; there you can make a false start. Mr. Heerema, who is a sports enthusiast, knows that. Then you can start over again. You don't have to do it too often, but one false start, okay? Then you can still make a world record, as I told the teachers who were there as representatives. So we have to try to put the false start that's been made behind us. It doesn't make much sense to sit down you-bake who's responsible or not. There has been clarification, including legal clarity when it comes to the election that has been held. These people will have to do it for the next two years. We're gonna have another election. Now, with fresh energy, let us put the teachers in the position they deserve and which this coalition agreement also states they are getting. That means that I have also encouraged the teachers to do the tasks that are now coming towards them. They are now organized; there is a representation. They can get to work now. This means that their first task is to establish a quality framework which regulates the re-registration criteria, which regulates the validation scheme for the training offer. That is, of course, a very important point, because we also want them to go about it and make their choices in it. As no other teachers know what is good for them, even when it comes to education, and where they also benefit from their daily work in schools. They asked me something about which I also reported to you. No doubt at all, they are going to work very hard, but from that date of 1 June they found it very strong that it actually takes away energy, because they were afraid that they would run so fast that they might trip over their legs. In athletics it is never beneficial when that happens in competitions. So they asked: "Can the date of 1 June be removed? We're going to try to do it as fast as possible, so if we can do it June 1st, it's June 1st. But are you okay with it if it gets a little later?" I have indicated that we really want it to be from and for teachers, that I do not doubt their great commitment and that I am therefore prepared to let go of that date. I told the Chamber that, too. But no doubt: this must be done as quickly as possible. This means that this subject, I hope, is now being taken forward in a good way and that we are trying to forget the negative past on this point. You know that the Education Co-operative is also taking measures to get the start that was not entirely optimal, just to say it carefully, by means of a quarter of an hour maker back on track. I will also follow that closely from my responsibility, without sitting in the chair of the teachers. They have to do this job. That is what it is meant to do, and so it is also laid down in the coalition agreement. With the beep that sounds above me, I'm going to the math test. Many questions have been asked. I was urged to try to clarify as quickly as possible. This is also one of the files that I immediately picked up on my arrival, because I knew there was some time pressure on it. Let us be clear that we are now working on an alternative for which the teachers themselves bear responsibility. The Dutch Association of Mathematics Teachers is now working on a concept. It will also take on the task of creating support, because let us not forget that this must ultimately be carried out by the teachers. This will happen in the course of 2018. We introduce it in 2019-2020. The 2018-2019 course year will be an implementation year. I am now in the process of making sure that the AMvB to be made for this will be ready in time. It must also pass the Council of Ministers. For example, I can give the VWO students absolute clarity as soon as possible that the calculation test will not count for them also this course year. My commitment is to get that done before Christmas. I'm assuming that's gonna work. We will not know that for sure until it has really passed the Council of Ministers, but here I am fully committed to giving that clarity between now and two weeks. The stakes are therefore that this will not count for vwo in August or in the examination period for that, but we must of course do so carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u122	I'm glad the Minister's giving me some kind of clarity. It is his commitment, as we have now been confirmed in writing. Perhaps the teachers of mathematics, the students and their representatives are sitting in the gallery now or watching this debate. Can they finally breathe relievedly because this controversial calculation test doesn't count this school year anymore? Can that certainty be given to them now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u123	I think I've just made myself clear about my commitment. In 14 days, I can give you absolute certainty. You never know what happens between now and 14 days. I cannot give this assurance until it has been formally completed, but this is, as far as I am concerned, the commitment. Again, within fourteen days, that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u124	I understand, on the one hand, that things have to go through an AMvB and the Council of Ministers, but in the end we also have a government agreement and here we have a system-responsible minister in our midst. I think he can give that clarity in advance, in anticipation of what will eventually be decided in accordance with the coalition agreement, so that a sigh of relief can now be slept at home because the calculation test does not count this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u125	If people are watching at home now, they're not at school. Then we'll just have to... Anyway, maybe in class the television's on. It could be. Looking at chamber debates about education is incredibly formal, I think. Then the teacher can prepare himself. I need to be as strict in this because it won't be done until it's done. Of course, an AMvB and a ministerial council aren't just things. It has to be done. But the stakes are clear. If they're watching now, they can lean back a little more relaxed, I guess. In 14 days, they're gonna be completely flat. Then it is also Christmas vacation, so they may even be allowed to stay this way for 14 days, although I wouldn't entirely recommend it. I would like to make one more point. I am also looking at Mr Beertema, because I know that he has often raised this issue in recent years. It's about the math skills. Let us continue to put it at the heart of the matter, because there is quite a bit of concern about the decline in computational skills. This is also apparent from investigations being carried out. The fact that we no longer require the calculation test as it was and that we no longer impose it on everyone, with all the feelings that it has unleashed and discussions that it has caused, does not mean that we do not consider computational skills important. It's very important. I would like to make this very clear here, because we are still on the subject. We will have to pay full attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u126	I welcome the two things the Minister says. On the one hand, he says the math test will be gone in two weeks. That's worth a party, I think; that's what I say as a math teacher. The second is working on the alternative and making sure that we work on the computing skills as quickly as possible. But my question is about the following. The coalition agreement also states that reference levels are being considered. This is ultimately the basis on which computational education takes place. That's a big deal. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u127	That is an ongoing process, as Mr Van Meenen also knows. I have indicated that, in consultation with the professional groups themselves, we are thinking about how we want to proceed with the alternative to the calculation test. In addition, the whole debate on computational education is once again on the table, because of course that cannot be seen separately from each other. But let's not disturb this brooding chicken right now. They're doing a good job. The responsibility lies where it lies. I am very curious to see what they are going to come back with, and what support they have come up with for their alternative; that is also crucial. Of course, it's fantastic if an x-number of math teachers can take a nice test together, but when their colleagues say "there's something else we can't get along with," then of course we have another problem. Those, too, are crucial things. To be continued, I would like to say to Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u128	Just so we're clear, math teachers who're gonna take a test don't want to do that completely with me. In my opinion, the alternative of the Association of Mathematics Teachers is not so much to take a slightly different test of calculation, but rather to embezzle computational education and its possible testing in, for example, mathematics education or in the teaching of other subjects. Can the Minister confirm that? Aren't we going to replace math key 1 with math key 2?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u129	I'd like to sum it up a little bit domestically, but they do have the space to take that up more broadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u131	Mr President, that brings me to the curriculum. That too is, in a sense, a moving train, which continues. In my opinion, my predecessor did a good job in this area during the previous cabinet period. There's been a lot of discussion. You have been informed of the latest developments around that point. The participants in the so-called development teams are now selected. They will also be teachers who are partly exempted from teaching in order to put their time, qualities, wisdom and experience into it. Development schools are also selected. That's what we're trying to do. Those schools can try out what comes from the development teams and provide feedback. The intention is that that will start in March next year and that in the course of 2018 it will be about the end of 2018 "the building blocks," as we call it so beautiful, are ready; in those words there is already communication about it in your direction. So that's a pretty ambitious timetable. It will again require a great deal from the sector itself, but I am confident that we will be able to take further steps here. I think we have to be careful, we will have to say that to ourselves and I will also tell myself that we are not going to tax the curriculum from now on. That is a somewhat broader remark, because this also applies to primary education. It is an annoyance for teachers who are already very old, but who, from time to time, are getting caught up again: once there is a social issue, that is pushed very quickly to education. Now there are issues in which we also consider this important and on which, after a democratic decision-making process, we make the choice that we find that with each other, but let us beware of putting subjects too often into education. Sometimes they just fall out of the sky. I noticed yesterday, for example, that the idea of vegetable gardens was a subject which was not at all discussed in this debate, but was so bad in another policy area. And I understand that. So we're not gonna do that either. We're not gonna force schools to build vegetable gardens next to their school. We don't. I also have experiences with my own children who came home with something that turned out to come out of the vegetable garden. If schools want a vegetable garden and there's room for it and they manage to do so, that's fine. Do that! But we're not gonna make it. I'm imposing that on myself, but I hope you'll bring up the same discipline, a piece of political self-control. This is also the art of letting go. let schools make their own choices. At some point, it's really enough. So about this plan, I say to the schools: fine if you want to do it, but we're not going to make it mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u132	I have to respond to this, because this plan comes from one of my colleagues in my group, and indeed not from myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u133	Now we want names and numbers! Who was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u134	It was my honourable colleague Tjeerd de Groot. That is what you get when you have such a large fraction, all kinds of wonderful ideas! But I've already devoted a tweet to it: "the vegetable garden is not a must garden." Not at all! This is a call to see what is possible, also to municipalities. By the way, I remember coming home with such a mountain of spinach myself. That left such a small mess; that was nothing at all. But very educational!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u135	Or eat carrots all week! It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u136	But let there be no misunderstanding: this is not meant at all as an obligation for schools. So I can only agree with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u137	Thank you. This tweet by Mr Van Meenen had escaped me. I think it's very strong, "the vegetable garden is not a must-garden." But let us be careful that we do not throw these kinds of subjects into it too quickly, because it really loosens up a lot in education. I understand that, especially in view of the discussion that we are in the middle of right now, about workload and about what needs to be done, about how difficult it is and about the lack of teachers. I come back to this in detail in primary education. We just can't have that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u138	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u139	Let me first reassure Mr Van Meenen: spinach is always so big and always gets very small. That's not specifically related to your vegetable garden! I understand the point and I also understand the problem of obligations. However, I would point out that this is vulnerable and that it is something extra. Schools will not be inclined to choose from their natural pressures, given the choices they have to make. I would like to understand that this is not a natural process if you leave it to the schools. Some things do deserve support, or should be prescribed. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u140	That discussion can of course always be held, but preferably at appropriate times. I didn't really think this was a good time, I'm just gonna say it again. But we really need to be careful. The same goes for what you did yesterday in your first term. You had a lot of argument. I liked that argument. You're a man who comes out of education himself. That's what you've been talking about. You spoke with love for education. You want your love for sustainability to come well between people's ears and to reach young people with it. But be careful here too to be burdened with schools like this. In the whole curriculum discussion it can be taken on board. That's where it'll be inserted, but be careful. The same applies to teaching materials. We have already had a written exchange of views on this, because there were very wide-ranging parliamentary questions about it. I have also responded extensively to this and tried to do you justice. But let us also give schools room in that respect to make their choices. If we think things aren't going well, don't point straight to The Hague. There is also just a kind of participation structure within a school to raise things. If you think that school books are wrong, that they may be influenced by anyone, which you say is wrong, then let it take place there. Let the discussion take place there, rather than asking questions of Parliament to be resolved by a minister who is not going to enter into this kind of school freedoms to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u141	Thank you for the warm words of the Minister. In his answer he continues to walk very nicely between very narrow economic lines. The fact that schools have to make difficult choices is, of course, because resources are always very limited. As schools have more space and money, as we consider it more important, they also have more peace, space and regularity to build, for example, vegetable gardens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u142	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u143	I would like to encourage and encourage the Minister to cut back on these good economic lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u144	I am not aware at all that I walk between economic lines. I'm trying to imagine something about that. What is very important in my answer as underlying value is that I think schools should have room to make choices. Of course, they must do so within the financial frameworks that exist. Of course, that's understandable. But let us not pretend that the financial frameworks are so narrow that there are no more choices of our own. Let us also be careful not to enter into the freedoms that schools themselves have, even when it comes to choosing teaching material. Again, if there are problems with teaching material or if there are questions about teaching material, address them in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u145	I think the gardens have been sufficiently discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u146	We've had the gardens and the textbooks, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u147	I don't want to interrupt about the vegetable gardens, but I want to talk about sexual diversity and resilience. I fully agree with the words of the Minister when he says that we should not put everything on the table of education, including the words of the Dijsselbloem Commission. However, we do not see that all schools are yet able to give their hands and feet to the core objectives of sexual diversity and resilience, even though they have been very clearly identified. I would very much like to hear more from the Minister about how he sees his role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u148	This is one example, but it is an important example, especially at this time when a lot of things come out that make us cold. It is important to discuss this with young people. The core objectives already offer opportunities for this. If schools do not come out well, it is first of all up to the school itself to raise this issue and see how they can be supported in it. We will look from our responsibility for this subject, which is wider than just the schools, if there are really concrete questions or if support is needed to deliver them. I did mention the sentence you said yesterday. You said sexual resilience starts in schools. Then I thought, uh-uh. That's not a squeak from upstairs, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u149	It'll be in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u150	Of course, that just starts at home first. Let us also see this responsibility: first of all, it is a responsibility for parents, parents and educators to pay attention to it. I do agree with Mrs van den Hul that it does not stop at the school door, that the subject should also be given a place there. There, too, of course, the meetings take place again and everything can happen... and sometimes there really happens where we have to be very alert with each other but where we also have to make children resilient. Fortunately, very nice things are already happening in schools to contribute to that. But everything in the right order: first home, then the school comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u151	In the ideal world, indeed. I should also have said the word "also": sexual resilience and diversity also begins in school. It is precisely because we see that this conversation is not easy for all children at home that it is so important to ensure that this happens in schools. I hope that this is also a constant conversation with the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u152	This subject naturally comes back to the discussions with the inspection and also with the schools themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u153	I suggest you go to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u154	I'm going to my next block, primary school. That sector is quite in sight this year. You could say that 2017 has also become the year of primary education. That's partly to be written on the account. I mean that positive PO debt in action. Others in primary education have also shown themselves, but PO in action has been a fascinating thing in recent months. It is now getting a new sequel, I understand from the newspapers today. Much attention is paid to primary education and also to the problems, difficulties and daily annoyances faced by teachers and school leaders. I think it's a good thing that that sound just sounds and that it offers opportunities to talk about it with each other. However, a little bit now seems to emerge the picture that primary education has been chronically neglected in recent years, also by politics. Against that image, I want to give some counterweight. Look at what has been going towards primary education in the financial sense in recent years. You have had the budget. More than €10 billion is going towards primary education. You have also had the Financial State of Education, which has also dealt with primary education. You have read that the money going to primary education has increased by 10% over the last five years. You know what has been going on in the Netherlands and in the rest of the world over the past five years. It was a time of economic crisis. However, more money has gone to primary education. This had to do with a certain political dynamic, even here in the Chamber during the previous cabinet period, but it did. It's also good to say that out loud. If you consider that the number of pupils has fallen, you might even say that it is also stated in the Financial State of Education that 15% more money has gone into primary education over the past five years than in the time before. That's really big money. This cabinet chooses to invest 1.7 billion in education in the coming period. I'm gonna get rid of the amount that stands for the efficiency discount. A large part of that money, 700 million, goes to primary education. If we look at the state of the amount per pupil and how it is going to develop from 2007 to 2022, this is structural money, we see a growth of almost 40%. I think it is important to mention these things, not to run away from the discussion about the problems and the questions that lie ahead, but to be clear. Primary education has not been neglected. A lot of money went to primary school. The previous cabinet made sure of that. Especially from the Chamber, the previous cabinet finally moved to do something about it. This cabinet also invests heavily in it. Of course you can have a discussion: is it enough, should there be more? I have had that discussion right from my start. If I can spend 700 million in extra money for primary education, then people, PO in action and others, have every right to say that they think it should be 1.4 billion. Those sounds also sound from the Room. But it's extra money being put into it. It's not like nothing's gonna happen. I think it is important that we establish this with each other. The extra money that will be available is the financial framework from which I will work in the coming period. It may not be what some would have wanted, but it is a substantial sum, I say with my fifteen years of experience in the Chamber in mind and knowing how extra investment was handled in budgets. This is a very large amount of money, even in historical terms. I'll come back to how we're going to spend that money in a good way. In the whole discussion about money and more money, there is also a strong debate about the lump sum and everything that goes on there. I cannot say that it is a discussion of all times, because the lumpsum has arisen at some point, but it is a discussion that is constantly being held. I would ask you to respect each other for the fact that there are a number of routes. You are yourself as a Room on a journey around the lumpsum. I think you've had hearings on that, too. That's what the Education Council is working on. The government wants the General Court of Auditors, which has already done research, to look at this further, perhaps together with the Education Council. Let us continue this discussion in 2018 and be careful not to take huge steps back in time again. Because the time of the receipts, when the ministry was still in Zoetermeer, was a great annoyance for schools. That was terrible, even when you're talking about bureaucratic trouble. We want to give schools room and trust. We are right to ask the question, especially if extra money goes to them, where that money stays. We want to be more clear about this. If we conclude agreements, what is the effect of these agreements? Mr Heerema has rightly put his finger on this. If we don't see that, then that's not exactly mistrust. However, we would like to discuss this, because I fully trust that the money will also be spent on education and not on vegetable gardens or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u155	This is Mr Van Meenen's entrapment again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u156	Yeah, sorry. Let's cut this out. But the lumpsum is a subject that has to come back. We want to have a bit of transparency, including what happens to the money. On the other hand, we don't want to go back to the receipts either. We're a little in the middle of that. Let us have that debate in the near future. In addition, the debate on reserves will be added. To be honest, I thought it was pretty magnified. In the Financial State of Education it is emphasized that the schools first had a much more cautious estimate and that it turned out to be a good thing. That's just the good news. They're not in trouble, but there's some money left. We also know that schools have attracted a lot of things, for example the decentralisation of housing, but they also want to invest in ICT. This is a major subject that Mr Bishop asked for in small schools. Then it is sometimes just necessary to make a reservation and do your expenses a year later. In the Financial State of Education, the inspection also says: at the moment that schools get into trouble with the funding, they take a bit more time; at the moment that they have some surplus, it is usually spent in the year after or the years after. We must have that confidence, too. I wouldn't confuse this discussion with the one about salaries. Nor does that seem to me to be doing justice to what the schools are doing. It is not a structural solution, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u157	I don't think this is giving us too much confidence. I still think it sounds a little noncommittal. The Minister could reassure me if he said that in this forthcoming discussion on the lumpsum we are also going to look very closely at the possibilities for ear tags, for example the ear tags of teachers' salaries. That's what I asked for in my first term. I have also asked to specify exactly what the discrepancy is between total expenditure and expenditure on salaries for teachers teaching. The minister directs, OCW directs, so that number has to be magical. Then we know how much money is actually being spilled to the overhead and so on, but I haven't heard that yet. That is my question, perhaps in advance because you might mention it. But also: are you willing to really consider going hard ear tags in due course?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u158	Two things. Firstly, we have also provided you with some information in writing on percentages of where money is going, for example on wage costs. As you can find in the written answers, the vast majority goes to wage costs. Then, of course, there is another part that is spent in a different way in education. You are talking about a part that, so to speak, will hang somewhere and may not be well spent in your eyes. Have another look at the answers. It's interesting, I think, to see those percentages, too. The second thing you said is that I'm too noncommittal. I do not think I can be without obligation if I respect that the Chamber has its own process, in which this subject is on the agenda. I have indicated that we are also working on this issue, including with external parties. At some point this will have to come together. You are there to have your input from the Chamber. There's nothing without commitment. This issue is not taboo either. But I warn against the trap that we go back to the old days, which is really not a solution to the problem. But I don't think you want me to. Maybe we can find a middle ground somewhere; time will tell. But if I were to say in advance where we should come from, you would also be at the interrupting microphone, because you don't want that either. So let's take a little time together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u159	I agree with the Minister. But I'm not entirely reassured that most of it goes to wage costs. I am concerned about the wage costs of the people who teach. I just read again that some driver of a p.o. organization comes out at €134,000 or at least above the WNT. Those are important things. That's what we want to know. Is it going to the teachers and the primary process? Anyway, I'm just gonna be patient and I'm gonna wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u160	The Minister states that we should not confuse the increased reserves over the past period with the situation surrounding wage developments. But I have a question about that. Does the Minister recognise that in the past period, when, for example, 3,000 additional teachers would have to be hired, of the EUR 2.4 billion extra to primary education, EUR 700 million has, on balance, been transferred to the bank account and only less than half of that money has gone to the teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u161	This touches on the discussion that Mr Heerema has also brought about in his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u162	Mr. Hiddema is not in. You mean Mr. Beertema?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u163	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u164	Oh, Lordema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u165	Mr Beertema has also said a few words about it. Who doesn't? When you make very specific agreements in sector agreements, even when it comes to the use of resources, you must indeed create a moment with each other to see if the objectives we have agreed on have been achieved. And if it isn't, then what's behind it? This discussion is also being held on the funds made available for the function mix. I think that discussion makes sense. We have to keep feeding them. That discussion will also continue with the Chamber if you receive the reports on the implementation of the agreements made in the past year. But to call sec an amount that is a sum of all boards of government, and there are many in primary education, and to say, "Look, this can make a substantial contribution to salaries," goes of course far too fast. There are differences between one school and another. In some schools, there are no reserves at all, and even if there is some kind of obligation to put some of the money in the salaries, we would be stuck. That's why I'm careful not to confuse these discussions too much, because before you know it, you're stuck with each other, and I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u166	I would also like to have that discussion in percentages. In the period 2012-2016, we saw that of the extra money that went to primary education, less than 50% went to teachers and more than 25% ended up in the bank account of schools. I'm worried about that. My question to this minister of this cabinet is whether he intends to ensure that if we make other agreements, for example, we will have additional teachers; so we expect that money to go to teachers in this cabinet period to prevent us from going through this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u167	That is a bit ahead of the subject that I want to pick up later, but I do think it is very important that, if extra resources are to be made available in this cabinet period, and we are talking about a high amount of money, we also make very good arrangements to ensure that there are spending plans that can be followed, and that, in the end, spending is to be seen in the place where we want it to be noticed, so just in the schools and in the classrooms. So I will be very alert to that when effects come to me. That is also an answer in the direction of Mr Heerema, who rightly pointed the finger at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u168	I welcome the Minister's last words. I have also indicated that I am pleased that this cabinet is making a first step in investment, but I also calculated in my first term that, for example, the investment to reduce the workload............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Now we already have 2,000 vacancies and in ten years we will be short 17,000 teachers. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to look at ways of investing that money in education a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u169	I don't even have that $7. That sounds very formal, but that is the situation. There's money parked in an ascending series; that's right, and that could become available, but it's not available yet. That means that I am going to follow this order: first, good plans where we also have the confidence that they will ultimately have the effect we want in order to avoid the situation that Mr Rog has just described, which has caused annoyance in the past, namely that money is going to go there but that the objectives that we wanted to achieve are not being fully achieved. I want to do this in the right order. Plans need to be made now. I can even tell you through the President that we have already started doing so. There have already been talks with the PO front, as it is so beautifully called, about how, looking at the whole thing, we could make good plans to achieve the goals we want to achieve with each other. There have been two meetings. Next week's the third meeting. So we're not sitting still. Nor have we waited for this debate. They're just working. I also hope that these plans will be available as soon as possible and that they are good plans. There were many suggestions here in the Chamber yesterday as to how this could be done. Mr Heerema mentioned the use of the professional teacher. Another said: there are still so many quiet reserves; can we not seduce them anymore? Others pointed out that if we now reduced part-time jobs in education and people started to work a little more, that would be a huge leap that we could make with each other. Of course, that's what people are about, but it's a subject that you have to settle with each other. In short, there are many examples. Let that happen and let the plans come along. That's the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u170	Beautiful words from the Minister, but of course we have known for a long time that there is a shortage of teachers and of course there have been several plans for the past year. I therefore believe that we know very well what should be done to take those first steps to solve the shortage of teachers, and the biggest obstacle now is that too little investment has been made. That is why I repeat the call on the Minister to move this money forward quickly in order to carry out the plans that are already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u171	I have not yet seen a good plan for spending the funds that will become available in the coming years. If there are many plans from the past that can be added and if we can come to the conclusion that this is workable, I hope to see them as soon as possible, because let us not waste more time than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u172	The Minister is right to point out that in recent years additional resources have actually been spent on personnel costs, on staff costs and also on primary staff, which is in front of the classroom. I saw one striking figure in the State of Education, about the wage costs of people who are not employed. That percentage of labour costs increased from 2% to 4%. There is therefore a doubling of the number of employees who are not employed. Would the Minister put his officials on that in the new year to see what exactly is going on there? Is that a development we welcome or one we may have concerns about? Would he want to set that in motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u173	I can promise. We shall return to that at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u174	Well, let's get back to the teacher shortage. The Minister has to forgive me for projecting on him my accumulated irritation at the four contributions from the coalition, but I think that is being done very badly as if the lack of teachers had just been conceived. We have already discussed this in detail in the previous period. Your predecessor has presented an agenda to deal with it. And now I hear all the time: there are no plans yet. Can I at least ask the Minister the following? Yesterday I was told by the coalition parties: no, we are going to wait until there are plans and then the money will come when we have agreed. Is there room, if the plans are there, for the investments to be made as agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u175	The discussion that is taking place here is about the extra money that will be available in the next cabinet period, and for which there must be plans to get it out and to spend it. I do not think that anyone, not here in the Chamber or by me, is saying that we are only now beginning to address the problem. This is an issue which comes up again and again, particularly at a time of high economic growth. If things go very well economically, the problem of the teacher shortage is much greater than if things go badly economically. We are now in a time of high economics, so now we have to deal with it extra. This applies not only to education, however. This is also a problem in other sectors, such as health care. And so I can mention a few more sectors. There are indeed pathways around the Teachers' Agenda, but I also mention the plan to tackle deficits. Recently, the directors have provided information on how far we are with that. We're just gonna have to go through with that, too. It is all hands on deck right now, given the enormous urgency, especially for filling in the gaps that fall in sickness and prolonged absence because the replacement pools have slowly but surely dried up. Part of it is because people have gotten jobs elsewhere, but it is a problem that we are dealing with. We would like to help employers to do this right, because there is a responsibility for them to fill it out. That's very much needed right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u176	That's not an answer to my question. My appeal was: if the plans are forthcoming, do not let the slow increase in funds to reduce work pressure be an obstacle to start. Bring out the money if you need it. Then we can immediately start tackling the shortage of teachers. In my view, the reality should be guiding and not a paper agreement from the coalition agreement. I hope that the majority of the Chamber will agree with me in any case in an abstract sense. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u177	My reaction had to do with the sentences you uttered before you asked your question. In it you set out an image that does not do justice to how we, even as a Chamber, are dealing with this subject. For the answer to the question on the use of funds, I should like to refer back to what I said to Mrs Westerveld. There's just got to be a plan first. I haven't seen a plan to spend these resources yet. Let's work on that now. We don't have to waste any time either. We're already on it. We will continue the discussion as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u178	Your last interruption, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u179	No, because I didn't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u180	Okay, I won't count him. Please repeat your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u181	If the plans are there and if the increase in resources to reduce the workload, which is 450 million, appears to be an obstacle to putting the plans into effect in full force, is the Minister prepared to raise expenditure, if necessary, so that not the government agreement, but the needs of the teachers are central and leading?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u182	My answer is quite clear: there has to be a plan first. If there's a plan, we'll continue the discussion. There's no plan at the moment. Even next year's money is not even available, because there must be plans to get it out. I am conducting the discussion openly, also in the future. I say this in the direction of Mr Kwint and all the others who rightly point the finger at this. But let us conduct the discussion in an orderly and orderly manner. That has nothing to do with the fact that we do not see the urgency, because the urgency is high. But there must be work and delivery. And then we'll talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u183	We talked about the lump sum funding and we don't want to go back to the old one. We don't want bags of receipts, we don't want bags of money that can be spent freely. The debate is about to take place. We're talking about spending plans now. Paper tigers don't solve the problem. However, the question is how binding the spending plans become. How is the Minister going to ensure that these spending plans are implemented and that it is not just a paper tiger?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u184	That's a very good question. It's just been put by others, too. It is okay to develop plans, but we want to have the confidence that these plans can be worked out as well. The aim is to reduce the workload for those in the front line of education. The teachers who are busy with children's hearts should really start to notice. We will not be able to say anything about this until the plans are in place, but know that it is very important for me that we have that confidence. I will, of course, involve the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u185	This smells like moving forward. We have to wait for the plans and we can't trust for sure that they'll be all right. The Minister has more than one appeal from his role and must express his confidence. I think he can give a little more to ensure that these plans are actually implemented. On the one hand, we have agreed rules on lump sum financing and on the other, of course, we have plans. Those plans must be consistent with the rules. In my view, then, there is no escape from a discussion on the financing of the system. As far as we are concerned, the Minister should give more handles to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u186	I'd say it's either not right or it's wrong. We are giving the sector, the teachers and also such a PO confidence and space to contribute to the preparation of plans for the extra money, the extra money, I repeat, to fill in the available money in such a way that it is ultimately noticeable in the classroom. At the moment, then, I have some reluctance to let the experts develop these plans, because they are the ones who know what is going on and what is going on. As soon as they are there, I do have a responsibility from my position to assess whether those plans are so firm that they will have that effect in the classroom. But now I'm a little reluctant. I think that is very real. That has nothing to do with distrust. It has nothing to do with trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u187	Second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u188	What PO does in action, of course, is fantastic. It is, of course, nice that the Minister is talking about this. But also, of course, we also have school boards and dome organisations that actually have the purse with money in their hands. The point is that we are forcing those school administrators to spend the money in such a way that it benefits an action group such as PO in action. The Minister agrees with me, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u189	In making the plans, not only PO is involved in action, but also unions and employers through the PO Council. That's a broad group calling themselves PO-Front. They are working together and are fully involved in this. Of course, there is an appeal to any school board to take responsibility for this discussion, for example when it comes to the shortage of teachers and the workload. I'm scared to see how many burnouts there are in education. That is what we need to care about each other, and that must also concern school authorities. It is important to have a good staff policy in the schools themselves and to pay attention to that with each other. So it really is a broad responsibility. We shouldn't go you-bake and move things together, because the teachers are right to be very angry about it if that happens too often. We must stand shoulder to shoulder to do what is possible, of course within the frameworks we have. In my case, this is particularly true of the financial framework. Because when it comes to my energy and my commitment, I want to give everything I have for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u190	During one of the previous debates we held in the Chamber on the shortage of teachers, the pay gap between primary and secondary education was one of the biggest pain points. The minister's predecessor said the necessary things at the time, and that led to the necessary noise in the gallery. I am very curious to see how this minister looks at this pay gap, the pay gap between primary and secondary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u191	The fact that this cabinet is officially making available for the salaries, for the terms and conditions of employment, that is what we call it, is significant, I think. That means that we also think that something should be done about these pay differentials. I know that the desire for the amount of money that should be available is higher in the sector. That is in itself their right, but this is the amount that is now being made available. That's a substantial amount of money. I hope that the social partners who are ultimately going to spend these resources, because that is what we have devolved to them as soon as possible to fill in for this money. We know that the coalition agreement explicitly states that we are making 270 million available. We also want the working conditions for teachers to be improved in conjunction with the normalisation of the super-statutory regulations. That assignment is clear, I think. They have to work with that. Let them do so quickly, too. This will save me another piece of text, Madam President, because the money could be available as early as January. So if these negotiations are to last months and months, that money will remain and it will not be available to the teachers. So: making speed and then something can be done about the differences, because they can be reduced considerably with this amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u192	Do I hear the Minister say that he agrees with us that this gap must be bridged in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u193	You will hear this minister say that EUR 270 million will be available for this cabinet period to substantially improve salaries in primary education, together with the task of looking at the super-statutory measures. I am not allowed to sit in the chair of the collective bargaining parties, but I do know that with this amount you can reduce steps and increase final prospects. There are all kinds of possibilities to fill this out. Let them do that quickly. It's up to them to do that. I have also understood that they would like to have PO in action, although it does not have a formal place yet. The sooner the effects come back, the faster the teachers can get extra money in their wallet. They deserve that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u194	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u195	Mr. Chairman. That's about salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u196	Mr Kwint also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I only take it as a compliment that the VVD counts so actively how often I interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u198	I will allow an additional interruption, because there are a lot of topics on the list. Otherwise, it's not completely clean. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u199	I'll take my time. Let's separate for a moment: first the beliefs, then the interpretation. Does the Minister consider it fair that there is a pay gap between primary and secondary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u200	This minister is open to the policy he has to pursue. The policy is that I get EUR 270 million, combined with the mission to address the existing pay gap. You can hold me to that when it comes to the responsibility I bear. I do not want to be dragged by you in a discussion that even goes so far as to transcend cabinet periods. Then we're gonna look back and judge what's been said in the past. That's not interesting at all at the moment. What is interesting is that we now have opportunities to do something about it. I want to, preferably as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u201	Fine, 270 million. That can be a step forward. The SP doesn't think it's enough. The minister says that's what I'm being sent into the field with, so I'm gonna get on with that. I think he's getting over the valuation question a little too easily. The question is simply: do we, politicians, see teaching in primary education and teaching in secondary education as well as occupations that we value equally, both in how we talk about it and how we reward them? I'm just curious how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u202	We can give a historical account of the pay gap between p.o. and vo and how they have grown so. This was partly done at tables where the social partners had to assume their responsibilities. There are choices made and they have led to differences. I think it is very justified that we should take this step, even if I look at some teachers in the p.o. Do. That's what I think I'm going to meet you with. It's not just a step, it's really a substantial step that can be taken. It is also very special that this kind of financial resources are made available in a government agreement. We also know that this amount can increase even more if the other task is carried out properly, namely normalisation, which we also take up in other sectors. This cabinet also attaches importance to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u203	Mr. Kwint, I'd save the extra interruption for the end, otherwise you're really done talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u204	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna make it quick. The last part of p.o. is the discussion on appropriate education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u205	I notice that there is a lot of misunderstanding about the 270 million in relation to those super-statutory regulations. Can we settle that here once and for all with an answer to my question? In other words: does the Minister agree with me that we have 270 million for salaries, that the condition is that the super-statutory arrangements are also standardised and that the money that comes out of that normalization should provide additional wage space over and above the 270 million? It's not some kind of cover for that 270 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u206	I think I have just given this answer to Mr Kwint. That's right, it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u207	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u208	So it could be even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u209	Yes. In addition, to complete it, there is also a regular inflation correction, or market developments are monitored. So the basic path is already a salary increase of, I think, 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u210	This growth has indeed been taken into account, but it is now a matter of spending the amount set out in the coalition agreement, which can actually be increased. We should not count ourselves very rich, but all the money that becomes available is added up and goes towards all teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u211	But it adds up: one is not the cover for the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u212	No, no, no, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u213	But this is extremely important, because many people in the country think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u214	Sure, that has been a misunderstanding, that I haven't heard that way lately but heard it at first. It's a good thing this is gonna be taken away for a while. Mr. Chairman. I come now to the appropriate education. Mr Kwint, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bruins asked questions about the financing of care and education for pupils with severe multiple constraints. This debate has been going on for a long time, but it is now possible to take steps. I am already in agreement with the VWS colleagues, and of course we would like to see care institutions set up in order to see how we can implement this. That's pretty complicated: it can't just be one-two-three. We do as much as we can and hope to be able to share the solutions with you before the summer. Mr. Chairman. I have a few short cross-sector issues, starting with shrinking. You have been informed about the situation in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. There is agreement between the different authorities and schools to come up with a good approach. I have a great deal of respect for those in the task force who have put forward the moves for this, which have now been further agreed on administratively. As far as I am concerned, we need to discuss the issue of shrinkage regularly in the coming period. I knew when I took office that it was an important subject, also because of what is happening in border regions. There are sometimes very specific situations partly due to the fact that schools are having a difficult time. In Zeeuws-Vlaanderen drive around the vans that the children pick up to go to Belgium. There parents make their own choices to let their children go to school not in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen but in Belgium. This also sometimes has to do with how they judge education there. We have now come up with a solution for this, and I would like to make an occasional contribution to it. I hope that it can be carried out in a good way. In particular, in the figures for secondary education, but it will also play in primary education, towards 2028 there is a contraction of about 12%. In some areas it will be even 20%, 30% or perhaps even more than 30%. That's really serious. In secondary education you can see the students arriving several years in advance. You have a little more time there than in primary education. It is already asking all those involved to make the right arrangements in the regions, not to look at each other in the sphere of competition, but to find maximum ways of offering education while maintaining the individuality of schools. This is also going to have huge financial consequences. You know that there is also funding per student. If this continues, we are talking about 750 to 900 million less going to secondary education. Those are huge amounts of money. So it is an important subject. We are doing everything we can from the Ministry to be present in the regions already. You know that we have also made agreements in the coalition agreement, for example on the merger test, which no longer needs to be done. In this case, we will abolish it for the shrinking regions. We support schools. There's trial counseling. We're organizing meetings to set it up. I know that the VO Council is working very actively on it, but so is the PO Council. So these are very important issues for the coming period. It's a good thing we realize that with each other. This brings me to the small schools, which Mr Bruins and Mr Bishop have asked questions about. Mr Bruins asked how we are going to spend the money that was agreed in the coalition agreement. I'm looking at the variants and I'm looking at the speed with which we can end up with the money in the right place. I will inform you about this as soon as possible in 2018. Mr Bishop has put forward an interesting plan for dealing with the rules that small schools have to deal with. I propose that this be included in the discussions that we are going to continue on about small schools. However, I can say that there are a number of things that schools can quickly work with, where they themselves have room not to succumb under regulatory pressure. Let me give you the example of the tests and the apprenticeship follow-up system. It does not say anywhere that all the keys belonging to a apprenticeship follow-up system must also be performed. In that famous booklet, which has been mentioned a few times here, we also congratulate Mr Heerema, Mrs Becker, who has taken the initiative in this regard. Of course, a test has to be taken, but then they can choose which one they want. If there are 30 keys, they really don't have to take all 30. I understand that sometimes it prevents people from thinking that this is the right thing to do. That is not the case. Even when it comes to ICT systems, it is up to the schools themselves to choose. It's not like there's a leaflet landing somewhere that says something has to be done. Schools also make their own choices. This is, of course, quite difficult for a small school because the financial resources are limited, but it is a choice that was made as a school to stay small; it is also given some extra money. I understand the question of red tape towards top incomes. A small school administration often involves voluntary work without salary, but this has already been dealt with. It is no longer necessary to have separate accountability when it comes to unpaid drivers. So the schools can put a line through that at the moment, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u215	I asked earlier whether the booklet "Space in rules" could be distributed across other sectors. The Minister of Education has already said that it will also have a role in the MBO. Can this Minister promise that it will also be rolled out in the box?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u216	That is what I say to Mr Lordema. That's what we're gonna do for the fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u217	Thank you to the Minister for Education for mentioning a number of points in that rescue plan. I fully agree with the suggestion that this should be taken into account and taken into account in the course of this discussion so that we can discuss it in an orderly manner. I would like to ask the Minister, in addition to the formal obligations that sometimes exist from different angles, to include the improper pressure that sometimes causes schools to feel they have to do something, in the discussion we will have on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u218	Yes, we will. This is a feeling that not only lives in small schools, but also in larger schools. Mrs Becker has taken the initiative, which has also been supported by the Chamber. I therefore hope that books like this will really be on the teacher's table and will also be the subject of discussion between teachers and school leaders to take a look in the mirror with each other. Are we doing things right and maybe we can get rid of them? What space is there that we might think it can't be because it needs to be inspected? And then the inspection says: we shouldn't do that at all; who made that up? But then it's in between the ears and there's pressure. And then we can take that pressure away. This is so-called low-hanging fruit. It is also good to pick that in vo and mbo wherever possible, not only in small schools but also in large schools. Finally, I have two issues: equality of opportunity and space for talent. When it comes to combating educational disadvantages and promoting talent, these are subjects that belong together. They are sometimes pulled apart a bit, but it's just that every child, a child who is lagging behind, but also a child who has extra talent in certain areas, gets the space and that there is also attention to it. As far as I am concerned, this is an important subject, also for the future. The delays and the vve will be discussed very soon, in January. So I would just like to say: shall we continue this debate there? I am pleased that you have already been working hard, Mrs Westerveld, and I am sorry that we have been able to avoid, because of the small cash drawer that was also requested by the VNG Education Committee, that teachers should be dismissed and then re-assigned in January. We've been able to settle that, but we're gonna get back to this. The debate on Mr Rog's summer schools and spring schools is also part of this opportunity and space for talent. It is right that he should also point out that this problem has not yet been resolved and that we should be careful now that the money available for it is 9 million, and I believe that it is not just disappears somewhere else in the big picture. So can we just put that together for that particular purpose? I'm willing to do that. It is not necessarily necessary to do so by means of an amendment. So when you, as a Chamber, simply say that you want to do so, that is enough, as far as I am concerned. The goal is important. This also has everything to do with equality of opportunity and also with giving space to talent. The parental contribution is also an ongoing discussion. I can remember many of Mr Kwint's predecessors, who also made a good contribution to this issue. This shows a good consistency. I think it is a good thing that this is also being looked at critically. There is already a Chamber ruling, which is being carried out at the moment, on an investigation into the rules on parental contributions and their implementation in practice. I intend to send that report to the Chamber as soon as possible with a policy response once it has been completed. There are very many examples used, of which we cannot immediately trace where they are. The bailiff always comes along, but is it an example of something that happened years ago, or is it still happening in 2017? If Mr Kwint has back numbers, then give them to us, then we can also look at them, because we do want this to be done in a good way and that parents are not put under pressure in a way that one might call improper. In the attention to talents, Mr. Heerema is already ready. He also has young talents, which can lie in many fields, which I think are examples and ended with models, if I understood correctly. As far as I am concerned, this is also a subject in which, if we want to deliver tailor-made work, not only in the direction of school administrators and teachers but also in the direction of students, we will have to look at each other to see to what extent we can also give space to this kind of special talents, because that is often what they are. Of course, without that ultimately touching the goals that education also has in mind for these children: that they can progress in a good way and eventually take up their place in society. So, as far as I'm concerned, that also means space to look more closely at that and see what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u219	I just wanted to touch on that, because the written answer says that the DAMU licensing policy is currently being evaluated. We also have a LOOT scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u220	Would you mind mentioning the page?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u221	That's page 40.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u222	Yeah, I got him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u223	That's a short answer. Something is being evaluated, and there are other arrangements. What I asked for in my speech is whether you can take this up yourself and come to the Chamber with a proposal. When I read this, I see a little too little ambition from it. I would like to hear from you what we can expect on this dossier in the near future. Or should we, as a room, pick up the glove ourselves? Of course you can, but I'd like to leave that with you first. Waiting for an evaluation is not enough for me to rest assured.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u224	I would like to refer Mr Heerema to the fact that it also explicitly states that we want this to enter into force in a new course year. That's anything but waiting. Because at the moment when we talk in spring on the basis of facts and also of the input from the Chamber about what we think is desirable or not and what is happening in practice, and then we can make decisions that can enter into force as from a new course year, then I think we are making a lot of speed on this subject about urgency. If we can make the work agreement with each other that we will pick this up in the spring and see if we can continue with any changes that need to be made in August 2018, I think that is a very nice appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u225	Two clarifications, then, from my side. The answer speaks sec about the DAMU licence VO. It is about more than dance and music, because there are, as I have already mentioned, several talents in all kinds of fields that are stuck in education. Since your answer states that you are considering whether the scheme should be changed on the basis of the outcome of the evaluation, I concluded that the answer could also be no. Then we'll just keep going in August. I'm looking for more ambition to get an improved situation as soon as possible, not only for dance and music but also for all those other talents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u226	This is a trajectory that runs. We'll come back with it in the spring. You indicate that you would like to take a broader look at this. That is also your full right as a Member of Parliament. As far as I am concerned, that is a legitimate wish. So let us have that debate in the broadest sense when the information is there. Then we can make choices together. You know I'm as laundry in your hands in that respect. Of course, I have an administrative responsibility for the choices that need to be made, but they always have to be made by you, so you have the full right to have your input and to indicate whether you think it is sufficient or not, whether there should be some tightening up or whether you actually think it is going well and that we can do so. This debate is therefore being continued. I think you have put this on the agenda at the right time with a great deal of conviction. I am grateful for that, because the talents deserve it. Mr President, this brings me to the conclusion. I have now finished all the questions I wanted to answer in my oral term. I feel my stomach messing around, so I think this is an appropriate moment, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u227	Yes. Mrs. Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u228	A number of questions have been answered in writing. I have two more questions about this, but if it is all right, I have two more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u229	Well, it's not, but that's okay. Ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u230	The first question concerns the side-inflow, on which I had asked a few questions. In particular, I asked if the Minister could come up with a good campaign to encourage people working in other sectors to become teachers. The Minister replied that there was already a website. That's the government website. Of course, I have also looked at that website, but my point was that there are many click-throughs on that website to other websites and to the Staatscourant. I find the site very unclear and not very personal. I ask the Minister whether we can better combine this with a better campaign and with someone who is helping people personally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u231	I'm gonna see what's possible here. I also made the corridor to that website myself and frankly I thought there was a lot of information on it. I'm taking this question with me so we can get back to it at an appropriate time. We shall continue this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u232	The site provides a lot of information, but is very unclear, I say again. The second point was about the pressure of performance among pupils and students. We know that a lot of high school kids are burning out. I think this has to do with our education system too, because we have made a huge effort over the last few years towards return. For example, we have said that sitting down is not allowed, because it takes time and everyone must be helped by the study as soon as possible, but also by secondary education. Our question was whether we could do a good research on that. Does our educational system help to ensure that so many students and students suffer from stress and burn-outs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u233	In my view, the question was raised particularly in the context of higher education and scientific education. I believe that Mr Bruins has also asked questions about this. I want to promise to look at this, without saying right away that we are going to start new investigations again. It's worth taking some time for the subject you're touching here. So I'm taking this back into consideration. We'll let you know how we proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u234	Your last interruption, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u235	I'm happy about that. In higher education it is already more well known, because universities and colleges do their own research. We know that there are stress and burnouts in secondary education, but it is much more unknown; hence the request to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u236	The chain clause in the WWZ is one of the reasons why schools do not accept replacements, if there are. Why? Because after a few hours of invading, they need to get a permanent contract right away. Of course, that's terrible. Schools are running against that. The Minister said that there is a solution for the next three winter months. My question to him is when we're gonna take care of this sustainably. Is the Minister prepared to say that he can organise this for next school year, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u237	This is a route which will be carried out, in particular, through Mr Koolmees. It is about the so-called Flex Act, just to put it more homely. Those are trajectories that will take quite some time. Of course, we will try to do so as soon as possible, but the question is whether this can be done as quickly as possible in the course of the legislative amendment. We do know that it is just possible to use the dispensation option. Of course, we'll keep it up in the future. In that respect, therefore, we have a provision, the dispensation option that can be applied, while we are working on a structural legal solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u238	My question to the Minister on this point would then be the following. You are on the Council of Ministers, Minister, and we are not; please take care of your colleague, Mr Koolmees, so that we can deal with this quickly. At least my apple would be: let's really try to solve this for next school year. I have another question. It's about the freakin' test culture that many people have been talking about, just like me. My question focuses on the kindergarten. Can we expect the Minister to inform the kindergarten teachers in good time about the adjustments we agreed on in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u239	Of course, we'll do the latter. Anything is possible at the moment. There is no absolute obligation when it comes to this type of test. But we will convey this message further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u240	I have not heard an answer to two important questions from me. I'm a little surprised. The first was about the code of conduct for teachers. It's running out of spigates. When I look in my mailbox, I see complaints coming in every day. A colleague of ours who is also on the right-hand side of the VVD, so to speak, has exactly the same problems. It's really crazy. That has led me to bring this code of conduct to my attention. We would like to see a code of conduct that asks teachers to be politically neutral, regardless of whose house you are; I said the same thing. I would like the Minister to comment on that. The second question was about the vve. 170 million has been earmarked for this purpose. We're surprised at it. There are scientific studies showing that the vve has no measurable effect. Then I think it is a shame to pay 170 million for this, which we could, for example, use for salaries in primary education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u241	I apologise to Mr Beertema that these questions had not been answered. That's right, you asked them. As far as the code of conduct is concerned, I do not intend to place it on the schools from The Hague. Schools are free, of course, to make their own choices. This can also be promoted, including through participation. Parents can therefore also play a role in this. Maybe it's a very interesting suggestion you're making, but I'm not going to prescribe it from The Hague. The vve is also an interesting discussion. You say it's sin money. On the other hand, I am told that it is far too little, because we want a comprehensive covering facility for everyone. But this is meant for the children who are lagging behind. So I think the cabinet's in the middle quite a bit. I will do the same, because that was given to me in the coalition agreement. I do so with conviction, because I think that money can be spent in a good way and can fight delays where they are very real in a number of respects. There are investigations for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u242	I find the first answer somewhat disappointing. The curious thing is that the teacher's profession is one of the few professions that are very important in interacting with other young, vulnerable people, where there is no code of conduct yet. That's what I said. Apparently, all these foundations outside OCW and The Hague have never felt that challenge. That's what's bothering me. That is why I would like to insist that you do not immediately write out a legal regulation, but that you do have to sit on it so that it finally happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u243	I have to intervene, because we do not suffer from squeaking in the background, but we do suffer from Mr Bishop, Mr Rog, Mr Van der Molen... Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u244	Now I'm completely out of my mind. Oh, yeah, the vve! Of course, there is a very great call in the polder for this pre-school and early-school education to be extended, but I only refer to Professor Fukkink's research, which ultimately says: it is not measurable. Then everyone can yell that there's more money to come, but why? We must also rely on the scientific results of research, mustn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u245	I indicated that in January we will continue to talk about backward policies and what is needed and what is not. Let us then continue this debate and involve all the reports that are going to be about it. As for your first point, the code of conduct or whatever we want to call it, we can now see that there is great emancipation among the teachers. I think that's a very nice emancipation too. More and more professional formation is taking place. Teachers speak much more, even outside their own school. I like that, especially if they want to share with us the issues that they deal with in their daily practice and if we can also solve the problems that exist. I assume that this subject could be taken up in the further formation of the profession, if subjects are taken up, but I am not going to sit on them very actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u246	One of the answers is: 'At the same time, I should also like to warn against overloading the curriculum in education'. We all agree on that. It shouldn't be overloaded. I do have a question. Sustainability is not addressed in the current economic field. Now there's a review of the curriculum. About five subjects are covered, but economics is not. I can assure you that in economic education we are now telling fairy tales of whole courses of learning about the transition we have to make. Are you prepared to discuss with the people who are now in the process of reviewing the issue of sustainability in economic education? Because that is not the case right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u247	I have just explained in detail how the route is currently going, with the schools and the teams that are being formed. I'm just gonna let that happen right now. I am not suddenly going to sit there and add a subject because it is important to do so. Now let's get to work. That will come back, we hope even quite soon in 2018. Let us look at it again, also with your eyes, because you may well be surprised in a very pleasant way. I have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u248	That would be very nice, but again: just because you don't want to overload the curriculum, it's important that you get here early.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u249	I assume that everything that is exchanged here about the curriculum and everything that is indicated from the various groups, including the Animal Party, will not just remain in this building. But I'm sure they've been listening. Maybe it'll find its way, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u250	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-4.u251	I'm gonna suspend until 2:00. Then we shall vote first, then we shall have the order of business and then we shall have the second term on the side of the Chamber.
