ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The German newspaper Der Spiegel came this weekend with frightening messages. The cracks in Tihange and Doel's nuclear power plants have already been discovered during construction. Already in 1975 it was found that something is wrong. The material should have been rejected, writing various media. Several decades ago, flaws were known. For decades nothing has been done about it, while the safety of many is at stake. If a disaster occurs, hundreds of thousands of people are at risk, in Belgium and Germany, but also in the Netherlands. A large area could be uninhabited for up to 200 years. Again frightening reports about the safety of the nuclear power stations at Tihange and Doel, located near the Dutch border. I deliberately said "again frightening messages." After all, it is the umpteenth time that there are disturbing reports from Belgium. Technical faults, the escape of steam in which an employee was seriously injured, an exploded transformer, fire, leaking welds, falling dynamos, possible sabotage and oil loss which threatened overheating. Incident on incident on incident. Mr President, why does the Chamber need to hear from a German newspaper that a Belgian nuclear power station is threatening Dutch citizens again? Where's the minister? Mr President, this Parliament has already voted in favour of the closure of nuclear power stations by a majority. The mess reactors are heavily out of date. In the construction of the nuclear power plants in Doel and Tihange it was foreseen that the reactors would close between 2005 and 2015, but they are still open. Mr. President, where is the Minister? Where is the government's action plan to ensure that Tihange and Goal close prematurely? What's the government's date for closure? Where is the promised legal analysis that should be completed by now? Will the Minister undertake to use all diplomatic and legal means to shut down the power stations? We want clarity and certainty about the safety of our inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me say that there is no such thing as a dangerous situation at the moment. The situation Mrs Beckerman is referring to is a situation that has been known for a long time. She also started by asking why we need to hear this from a German newspaper. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FANC) has always communicated that this phenomenon has arisen in the manufacture of reactor vessels in the 1970s. In the first communication on this subject, the Nuclear Physical Service also mentions that this phenomenon arose when casting and forging the steel of the reactor vessels. The Minister of EZ also reported this to the House of Representatives by letter of 2 October 2012. So long before this article appeared in Der Spiegel, this has already been communicated. What exactly is going on? Now I am thinking about safety and clarity, not so much about who knew what when. When the nuclear power plant was built, hair cracks were formed, or hydrogen flakes. In 2012 there was also extensive verification of whether this would lead to a dangerous situation. A report was issued in 2013 by the International Expert Review Board (IERB). That is why all this was at the time. That board has also found that there is indeed the hair cracks and the hydrogen flakes, that they have always been there and that this is "with acceptable limit', so that it does not present a dangerous situation. That's about the business itself. Furthermore, Mrs Beckerman asks me what I am doing to achieve the closure and where the legal analysis is. I believe that on 14 September I sent your Chamber a letter on what we did with the Wassenberg motion, including the comments from Germany and Luxembourg which we asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	I think it's very thin. The cracks in the reactors lead to rifts of confidence in many people who are potentially at risk from these reactors which should have been shut down a long time ago and which the majority of this Chamber wants to close as soon as possible. And yet we have to read in the paper that there are reports like this again. But what I must also read in the newspaper is that the government has postponed the measures it is taking. Besides messing with reactors there is also joyed with iodine pills. Why should the Chamber read in the newspaper that the government has postponed the delivery of iodine pills and when does the government start providing iodine pills? We would like to hear an exact date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	Again, you did not have to read it in the newspaper; you may know it as a Chamber since 2012. There has also been extensive communication about it. No new dangerous situation has arisen. You know that our government is always paying attention and that she's on top of it. We also want to do everything we can to ensure that our people are safe, but at the same time we also want to have a real story. So we shouldn't scare people with an old story. That's the first thing. As for the iodine pills, my colleague from VWS is in charge. I think it has informed your Chamber of when to start communicating about iodine pills and when to be distributed. So I do not want to go into that now with the risk of perhaps not mentioning a good date and thereby causing unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	So, again, there is no clarity, and we would very much like to have that clarity. So I expect to be informed as soon as possible. These messages really worry us. It is not for nothing that both the Netherlands and Germany and Luxembourg have voted in favour of closure, including the Netherlands. These reports worry us about the safety of the residents of Tihange and Doel, but also about the safety of Borssele. The reactor vessels with cracks of Tihange and Doel are cast by the RDM, the Rotterdam Dry dock Company. As far as we know, they also cast the Borssele reactor vessel. Is that correct and does the Minister intend to investigate the possible defects at this plant?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	Again, every time there are reports about power stations there are concerns. I think it is very important that we try to communicate as well as possible to remove all of this, but concerns must be justified. It is therefore not a new fact in this case. You're asking about Borssele now. We have also had this discussion before in this Chamber. Yes, it is true that the Borsselevat was made by the same maker, but during construction several times it was checked for defects and after the discoveries in Objective 3 and Tihange 2 it was also examined how the inspections at that time were carried out. This undoubtedly leads to the conclusion that the reactor vessel in Borssele does not have the defect in question. I have already informed the Chamber on this issue many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We understand the concerns of this kind of news report. We have already discussed the possible closure of the power stations in previous consultations, but the latter is not within our competence. In addition, there are things that may be within our competence, and we have already discussed the dependence of the Belgians on these nuclear power stations. The Dutch government could play a role in connecting the Belgian electricity grid or the European electricity grid to make sure that the Belgians are less dependent on nuclear power plants and may also benefit from wind at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u10	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u11	So my question to the Minister is how it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u12	That is indeed a question that has been raised earlier and on which the Minister of EZ has indicated that he will contact us. He offered that, too. I do not know at the moment what the latest state of affairs is and how far it stands, because the question would not be about it, but it has been set in motion, as was decided after the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u13	Every incident around Tihange comes with soothing talk and all these soothing talk is followed by new incidents. The region is where I come from; I live there, and I am very worried. Two and a half weeks ago I went to a meeting of the security region in Maastricht. That would initially be a private meeting, but I could still go there and bring five activists. Only, there was no mention of Tihange at all. It was all very general talk about nuclear power plants. Firstly, I would like to know from the Minister how the letters she sent have been responded...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u15	I have recently sent a letter to the Chamber which also responds to the Wassenberg motion. Both letters I received were attached to them. I asked both Germany and Luxembourg, after the Chamber had asked me to join their procedures, to indicate what they are doing on the basis of which elements. They both replied as follows. Luxembourg says: Our government has not taken any other concrete steps to follow up the request; neither did it perform a legal analysis...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u16	No no no, in Dutch, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u17	Oh, excuse me. To sum up, it says that Luxembourg is not doing anything to take further action and that it is not even making a legal analysis of the Belgian case. The Chamber has the letter itself. Germany, too, says: 'Beware, no application has been made on purpose to close the organisations, because it is not possible to do so on the basis of our legal analysis.' That's actually what I keep sharing with the Chamber. I think it is very important that not only our nuclear power stations are safe, but also those across the border. It is also about our people who live in the adjacent areas. I am paying attention to this, with all the possibilities I have as Minister of another country, because it is not my country and it is not my nuclear power stations. I do my best to do so by ensuring that communication and participation are regulated as effectively as possible and by having our people carry out inspections there as well. But we can't close them; that's one. Two is that at the moment there is no actual reason to want to close them. You can't just shut them down based on the feeling of insecurity. There really must be an unsafe situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mr Wassenberg has a second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u19	There would also be agreement in the communication between these countries on the distribution of iodine pills. Well, that's absolutely out of the question. We will probably get them on the bus next month, but that seems to be arranged in a totally different way than in Belgium and Germany. Can the Minister respond to this, or, if necessary, pass the question on to her colleague from VWS?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u20	As I have just said, I think my colleague from VWS has already communicated to the Chamber about iodine pills, but it will soon be done in this area as well. As far as I have always understood, it has been a decision to go straight with Belgium and Germany, where iodine pills are distributed. We have always said that this does not have to be done, that it can be done from a central point, but because the Chamber and the previous minister wanted it to be aligned, they are now being distributed. They are not handed out because there is an unsafe situation, but simply to have an equal regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u21	Perhaps there is confusion in all this communication because there are explanations in several letters. Perhaps the Minister could give us a factual account in advance of the general consultation that I think we will have on 10 October. Oh, I hear the AO moved to December. Can we at least get a fact-finding report from the Minister about when what cracks have been identified and when the Dutch Government has been informed about them? For I can well imagine that these questions have been raised by the SP Group. I also saw the message come along and thought "I think these were already there," but I'm not sure about that either. If I already have that, if the SP has that and if other people have that, then probably a lot of residents of the border region have that too. That is exactly the problem we are talking about today. Will the Minister undertake to do so? Does she really want to talk again with her colleague across the border, in Belgium, about this whole communication? 'Cause this isn't going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u22	I'd like to give you my word on that. We have just sent a whole letter to the Chamber, assuming that we would soon have the AO, but that has now moved to December. So there is plenty of time to give this story again, so there will be another letter on top. I'm gonna admit it anyway. Of course, communication must also be good. That does not have to wait until September, because it must also be clear to the people who are actually concerned. This must also be communicated through the usual sites. The fact that it is now on the agenda is because someone in politics has said at once that he has discovered something and speaks of it shame, whereas it turns out to be just an old case. Unfortunately, that has caused panic again in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u23	This is a case that originated in construction in mid-1975. So it's not real news. I think we should be very careful to respond to every newspaper report and look much more closely at what is actually happening. There I see that the Minister is doing a good job, because on 2 October 2012 when I arrived here, it was already found that there were cracks in Tihange 2 and in Objective 3. It has also been examined what this meant for our own nuclear power station in Borssele. You sent that letter to the Chamber on 2 October 2012. I agree with Mrs Mulder. I think it's pretty good for a coming AO to bring everyone on the same level, because if we start screaming like the SP is doing now, that certainly nourishes the unrest. That is not good and does not do justice to this issue, because the concerns about security are legitimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you. Madame van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u25	Whether there is a good reason to be concerned or people are worried: there is a huge unrest around nuclear power plants. I would like to know from the Minister, and perhaps that can also be taken into account in the promise just made to Mrs Mulder, whether these Belgian power stations are Fukushimaproof. Is that Borssele? Are the contingency plans now complete? It's been five years since Fukushima. After that disaster in Fukushima, we all said that we never want that level again. So have we now taken these power stations, which could be a reassurance for the region of the former Yugoslavia, to a level that is Fukushimaproof? Now, after five years, do we finally have our emergency plans in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u26	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman. I think Mrs Beckerman wants to respond to Mr Remco Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr President, I would like to add a personal fact. I think it's quite a shame to be accused of screaming here. I exercise my right as a parliamentarians to put oral questions. That is not for nothing one of Parliament's instruments. I think it is an insult to me as a Member of Parliament, but also to the people of Limburg and Brabant who are worried about this situation. I do not want it to be dismissed as screaming, even by the party who himself wanted to postpone the debate, the AO on this matter. So I want to mark here that I really think that's a ruse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u28	We debate, we don't scream.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u29	It is not for me to respond to this last contribution. I will respond to the questions raised by the first two speakers. It was asked if I will ensure good communication. I will. Indeed, it was clear a while ago what was going on here. For me too, of course, safety is the most important thing. A clear communication is part of this. Then you can find something political about it or not. I'm trying to be neutral in that. Mrs Van Tongeren asks whether I can indicate in the letter whether the plants are Fukushimaproof and whether Borssele is. I know about Borssele. I can give you that information in the letter. I do not know whether the other two plants should be covered by the same rules, but as far as information is available, we can simply include them in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66 for his questions to the Foreign Minister.
