ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the outgoing Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Mrs. Klijnsma, thank you for joining us. This was initially a hammerpiece, but if there is a sheep over the dam, everyone wants to speak for twenty minutes; that is an old parliamentary proverb. All the better. We're gonna dive in real good. Eight speakers have signed up. The first is Mrs. Lodders. She's gonna talk to us for ten minutes. "I'm already halved," she says. Then we are happy to praise ourselves. Good luck with the remaining ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes legislation falls short in certain respects or minor adjustments have been promised during a legal process. A collecting law will then allow these points to be resolved or commitments to be met. Today we have this law on the collection of pensions before us. Most of the amendments were of a technical nature. Most of the items included in the Pensions Collection Act meet the three criteria mentioned by the Cabinet, namely coherent issues, no major and complex changes and no politically controversial issues. These points can therefore be supported by the VVD. One of the main objections raised by my group has been removed in the course of the written round. My group did not consider it desirable that pension funds should no longer have to communicate the actual claim. The letter of amendment, which is part of this collective law and which has removed this restriction, can therefore count on our support. In addition to changes, there are also two commitments following the debate in the Upper House. It concerns extending the distribution period for variable payments from five to ten years and making a supervisory board compulsory for entrepreneurial pension funds with an invested capital of EUR 1 billion or more. I have a number of questions on these two points. I shall begin with the distribution period for the variable benefit from five to ten years. During the debate in the First Chamber, the Secretary of State undertook to extend the distribution period for financial shocks in the event of a variable pension. That is now regulated by this collectible law. What I don't read is whether and, if so, how insurers should communicate this to the participants. Can the Secretary of State explain that? The choice for the distribution period is up to the pension administrator. How will the participants and pensioners concerned be involved? The other point concerns the obligation of a supervisory board for entrepreneurial pension funds. The Secretary of State proposes to require entrepreneurial pension funds with an invested capital of more than EUR 1 billion to move to a supervisory board instead of having an external visitation committee, as is the case at present. My group does not consider this to be a minor change. This point therefore does not belong in the treatment of a collecting law. Nearly three years ago, the Chamber dealt with the Pension Fund Strengthening Act. This allowed entrepreneurial pension funds to have supervision carried out by an internal supervisory board or an external visitation committee. The Pension Fund Enhancement Act still needs to be evaluated and now the State Secretary is proposing all this change. Doesn't the Visitation Commission satisfy you? How should I read the good examples of DNB, De Nederlandsche Bank, about the visitation committee? There are also a number of questions to ask in terms of content. How is the EUR 1 billion limit set and measured? What are the costs for the Entrepreneurship Pension Funds? How are entrepreneurial pension funds that are in a merger or intend to merge? These are a lot of questions. That has led me to propose an amendment (34674, No. 8) to delete this amendment from the Collecting Act and to link it to the evaluation of the Pension Fund Enhancement Act. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State when the evaluation of this law will take place. The fact that I want to delete this point does not, therefore, mean anything about the VVD's position on whether or not this should be done, but we believe that this should be based on an in-depth debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u3	May I remind Mrs Lodders of the commitment made by Secretary of State Klijnsma on 9 June 2013? "I have just said that in three years' time I will evaluate how the visitation committees have functioned. (...) It will be very clear that after those three years, or as much earlier as possible, it is wise to switch to a supervisory board."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u4	Sure. I have also started by saying that this intention is linked to the commitment she made in the debate in the Upper House. However, I think that before you propose such a change, you should at least have an evaluation first. The deletion of a visitation commission or the deletion of a certain form of supervision.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u5	I will return to this in my own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u6	Very exciting. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u7	Same goes for me. You refer to the letter from De Nederlandsche Bank. You also read the letter from De Nederlandsche Bank. In fact, the Netherlands Bank believes that this law should have provided that smaller pension funds should also be set up under the 1 billion supervisory boards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u8	Sure. All the more an argument to say: let's not decide this by a collective law. The President is right to say that it was initially a hammer piece. This is about something. This is about supervision of pension fund management. Supervision must be properly and adequately regulated. I think that if you make a change to that, it should be based on a thorough evaluation. Mr Snels asks a question about De Nederlandsche Bank. The Netherlands Bank has also published a report in which the Visitation Committee has examined or examined. A number of very good examples have been put together in a practical booklet. Let's get that involved, please, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u9	Nevertheless, De Nederlandsche Bank believes that it is better for internal supervision to have supervisory boards instead of visiting committees. One more political question to Mrs Lodder is the following. How's she looking at this? Do we need to have that discussion soon? Do we need to come up with legislation quickly to set up supervisory boards? Or is this also sliding in the longer term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u10	Not as far as I'm concerned. I believe that we have agreed that the law will be reviewed within three years. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State: when will this law be evaluated? As far as I am concerned, this evaluation should be carried out with some urgency and speed. Why? Because I like to see what the effects are. The obligation of all occupational pension funds to a supervisory board may be a result. I would then like to see if that means making a transitional arrangement for a fund that wants to merge or liquidate between now and a year. I understand De Nederlandsche Bank and I think it should be critical, but we also have the interest of representing the participant and the pensioner in this Chamber. In any case, that is the position of the VVD. I'd also like to look at that interest. I do not feel at all that the pensioners and the members of an entrepreneurial pension fund who are going to liquidate within one year or within a certain period of time will have enormous costs. In the written consultation, several groups discussed the legislative and regulatory framework for general pension funds, which leads to uncertainty among asset managers, with the result that the coverage of interest risk is very difficult for general pension funds. That's a pretty cryptic and technical sentence, but I suppose the Secretary of State knows very well what it's about. The Secretary of State has acknowledged this concern and announced the intention to regulate legal certainty and bring about an adaptation of the lower regulation. Can the Secretary of State indicate when it will see the light and is she prepared to send it to the Chamber? When can we expect it? The VVD has repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the net pension scheme. I understand that there has been frequent consultation between the sector and the Ministries of Social Affairs and Finance. The VVD Group thinks it is time for a solution. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to come to a solution together with her colleague from Finance and to argue why that solution is the right one. And I ask her to inform the Chamber about this before the general consultation on pension issues is held. I'd like to hear a commitment. If it doesn't come, I'm considering tabling a motion on this point. I come to my final point. Under the current Pension Act, a pension fund can opt for a carve-out. This means that you transfer the pension assets of the group of pensioners to an insurer and leave the pension assets of the other members with the pension fund. The aim of such a partial transfer is to ensure that the differences in the risk base of participants and pensioners can be better addressed. After all, a retired person wants to receive the most stable pension. An insurer has a retired view of that guaranteed benefit, without discounts. A participant, however, wants to see the best possible pension through investment policy. Within the current Pension Act, a carve-out may take place, but there is a barrier to Article 58 of the Pension Act. Is the Secretary of State aware of this? This makes the carve-out in practice unattractive and perhaps hardly feasible. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ask De Nederlandsche Bank what the experiences are with it, and to inform the Chamber about it before the summer? That's it, Mr. Chairman. I have cut my speaking time again in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u11	Compliments, compliments, compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u12	Mr. Chairman. The SP has asked a number of technical questions about this law. They've been answered well. On two points, however, my group still has a supplementary question. The first concerns the announced legislative proposal on compulsory occupational pension funds. That would have been submitted to the Chamber on 1 May. It was then reported that this would be postponed. I wonder if the Secretary of State intends to send this bill to the Chamber before the summer so that it can enter into force on 1 January 2018. The second question concerns the supervisory board of occupational pension funds. Mrs. Lodders asked for that too. This has been added to the Collecting Act and there would be another evaluation. However, it is not quite clear to me when this will be sent to the Chamber. The Secretary of State and then Minister Donner campaigned to raise the AOW age. Afterwards, she was responsible for the extreme acceleration of the increase in that AOW age. As a result, many people got into trouble because they were put in front of fulfilled facts. I would also like to take this opportunity to come up with a number of proposals for solving these problems. Because I speak to a lot of people who are desperately looking for solutions to the gap in their income. Pending the reduction of the AOW age to 65, they need a proper regime. As far as the SP is concerned, the government, the cause of this problem, must also solve this problem. The current bridging regime has proved inappropriate for this purpose. This is also apparent from research carried out on the use, or rather not using it. The fact that this scheme is not used is also reflected in the figures. In 2014, it was assumed that this bridging scheme would require 83 million euros. The 2016 budget was based on only EUR 21 million. After the year 2016, it was found that only EUR 4 million was spent on that scheme, i.e. almost 80 million less than was originally thought. On 2 June we received a letter from the Secretary of State in which she wrote that she felt that the extension or broadening of that arrangement was both legally and financially undesirable. But where have all these millions gone before the bridging arrangement in recent years? Why is it undesirable to adopt measures with retroactive effect to remove the legal obstacles? There are a number of simple measures to take, such as increasing the maximum benefit to a modal income. This means that many more people who are now out of business can claim that arrangement. Another example is the exclusion of the partner's income. Because let's be honest: of course, that has nothing to do with the financial disadvantage that someone is suffering from through the accelerated increase in the AOW age. The government is the cause of the problem. That is why it must take care of the solution. But as long as that isn't properly arranged, people are desperate for solutions. The SP has therefore tabled today, together with the Labour Party, an amendment which provides for the possibility for pensioners who have already started an AOW bridging allowance to be able to adjust the progress of benefits in the interim. That possibility existed until 1 July 2016. As far as we are concerned, this must be made possible in a structural manner. It is not a question of introducing a supplementary pension, it is really a question of adjusting benefits between now and the end of the day, either because the age of the AOW has been increased or because people later find that the scheme has not yet been adapted to it. I must confess that this is not ideal, because the people who are concerned pay that out of their own pension. But we do see that in some cases it may be necessary to avoid financial problems. The Secretary of State is responsible...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u13	I see that the SP is looking for a solution within the supplementary pensions. If you also do it in the bridging regulation, you will have many debates about retroactive power. What is not entirely clear to me, even after reading the amendment, is whether this is a one-time thing, which will lose its meaning in a few years' time. Or does this still have effect over the next few decades? I find it difficult to see the exact impact of this amendment. That is why I would ask for a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u14	Thank you for this question. It concerns an amendment of the law. In that sense, it is structural by definition. It can be seen whether it will actually work in the very long term. However, if people have not properly regulated the rate of benefit at the beginning or have not or have not taken insufficient account of a further increase in the AOW age, this amendment may allow them to adjust the rate of benefit in the longer term as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u15	I am trying to indicate whether this means that there is more pressure on the pre-pension or not, or whether this has an impact on the employment rate, or whether this has a budgetary impact. I assume the Secretary of State will deal with this. I am also looking for the group of apologists who could have made use of it under the old regulation before 1 July, but which was wrong. I understand that Mr Van Kent and Mr Gijs van Dijk's amendment is broader.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u16	As much as we would like to reintroduce a form of early retirement, the amendment does not see that. This amendment is purely and simply about adjusting the duration of the benefit during the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u17	I have a bit of the same question as Mr Van Weyenberg. The amendment allows for structural arrangements. Then why didn't the authors of the amendment choose a new date, giving you a grace arrangement from 1 July 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u18	I do not understand the objections to this possibility, which is enshrined in the law. It's budget-neutral. The people pay in principle themselves to adjust the course of the benefit. I see no objection to giving people the freedom of choice even in the long term if the benefit is already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u19	You'll have to stand by the interrupting microphone, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u20	You saw me doubting you, Mr. Chairman. We have not yet received the amendment. With your permission, I will return to this at the end of Mr Van Kent's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u21	The amendment is now in your in-box. You are continuing, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u22	I had already come to the end of my speech. I hope that the Secretary of State will be prepared, in the wake of her Secretary of State, to correct a number of issues surrounding the AOW-hole, which is really a major problem for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u23	We are now going to listen to Mr Van Rooijen from the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions in the report, the clarifications given and the improvements made. 50PLUS still has a number of points of interest for the collecting law that we are discussing here today. The inclusion of an explicit scheme whereby pension funds wishing to merge or split should report to De Nederlandsche Bank and where De Nederlandsche Bank can impose a prohibition on the basis of prudential considerations is desirable in the opinion of the government, but the impact is called complex. The Cabinet is considering whether this scheme can be included in the announced legislative proposal aimed at allowing mergers of compulsory occupational pension funds with temporarily separate assets, with guarantees and cross-compliance. Can the Secretary of State explain this intention further? The extension of the distribution period from five to ten years for the treatment of defaults leads to a higher risk of lower pensions at older ages. Is that fair? How are pros and cons weighed? Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of reducing the disadvantages? I'm coming to the net pension. The Cabinet sees no reason to improve the legal framework for the net pension. Why do we no longer place the interest of participants at the heart of this consideration? Why should compulsory occupational pension funds not be able to offer variable benefits? By referring to the principled job definition provisions, the discussion is in fact postponed and left to a subsequent cabinet. For example, pension funds are lagging behind the kind of schemes they can offer participants. However, the job definition provisions are never intended to put pension funds at a disadvantage in the kind of arrangements they can provide participants with. The spirit of the job definition provisions is precisely that voluntary schemes implemented by pension funds entail sufficient solidarity features. I refer to the amended motion by Mr Van Rooijen and others. in piece No. 34255, letter N, submitted to the Upper Chamber on 14 June 2016. It invites the government to examine how all pension funds can offer variable benefits to their members and to complete this study in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr Van Dijk wants to get those songs right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u26	It happened pretty fast. Mr Van Rooijen referred to the period of recovery and its extension. That would be detrimental to the elderly. However, my view is that extending the recovery period has brought the necessary rest precisely when there was a risk of possible reductions. At that time, we decided in the Chamber to turn that away by extending the period of recovery. That has given the pension funds and therefore also the participants a rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u27	That's right. We support the regulation in itself, but as the Secretary of State states in the note on the report, there are also disadvantages and risks. We would just like to point that out. Of course we support those ten years. In my view, I would have stayed in the way of putting this issue on hold; it is left to the next cabinet. For example, pension funds are lagging behind the kind of schemes they can provide participants with. However, the job definition provisions are never intended to put pension funds at a disadvantage in the kind of arrangements they can provide participants with. The spirit of the provision is correct... I have already said that. I'm referring to the motion. I was a lot further; Mr Van Dijk has put me on a different path. I quoted the motion of the First Chamber. That principle seems to us in itself perfectly compatible with the implementation of a variable benefit, in concrete terms the collective variant of the Improved Premium Scheme Act. Can the Secretary of State comment on this? Voluntary pension fund schemes must indeed, as the Secretary of State states, have solidarity features. But is that simply impossible with a variable benefit? Doing nothing about a legal framework means a deterioration of the position of pension funds and thus of the interests of their members. After all, the variable benefit may be of benefit to the participant. Moreover, doing nothing is incompatible with the wish that net pensions should be properly implemented by all parties in the second pillar. Pension funds should be able to offer their entire population a decent pension. I would also like to make a comment on the job definition. Little happens because the cabinet takes the view that making the variable allowance possible in the case of compulsory occupational pension funds leads to a deterioration of that job definition. Can the Secretary of State explain to us exactly what would go wrong in that task description? The word itself apparently scares a lot of people and apparently works well in itself, but can the Secretary of State dig one bit deeper into the argumentation? The job delimitation appears to be a kind of stop sign, which puts the discussion on the long track. However, there is also such a thing as an interest in participants. I'd like a thorough consideration. The cabinet does not intend to allow people to adjust an ongoing AOW bridging allowance if the AOW age increases again. Many people who may have wanted an adjustment in 2016 but did not do so in time can now do nothing. The legal possibility to adjust the benefit expired on 1 July 2016. Why not for this group of people a structural possibility to adjust the AOW bridging allowance? It's been mentioned before. Although the increase in the age of AOW is announced years in advance, quod non, the advance retirement age of more than five years is also regular. So also with the fact that further increases in the AOW age years are announced in advance, according to 50PLUS, it remains desirable for people to be able to adjust their benefits if there is a risk of an AOW-hole. Why are pension funds not able to repair income gaps resulting from changed government policies? It doesn't cost the government anything. In short, we are asking what is the justification for the one-off possibility of adjusting the bridging pension. I'd like the Secretary of State's vision. I come to the protection of personal data. The unequal treatment of pension funds vis-à-vis insurers and PPIs in this respect is justified by the State Secretary by the statement that there is no market for pension funds. After all, there is a requirement. This would justify excluding pension funds from the exemption from the reporting obligation imposed by PPIs and insurers operating in a market. Pension funds are indeed not commercial executives, but it is odd from the participants' perspective that there is a difference between PPIs/insurers and pension funds as regards personal data protection. Does a pension fund have no or less reputational risk due to the obligation to report back? How's that hard? Is it not more logical to allow the exception of the obligation to return to the participant, which is set out in Article 34 (11), to apply either to everyone or to no one? I'd like to get a thorough explanation. I come to the moments of measurement for the level of policy coverage. The legislative proposal makes it clear that the recovery measure provided for in Article 140 of the Pensions Act and Article 135 of the Compulsory Occupational Pension Scheme Act concerns six measurement times, which means a measurement over a total interim period of five years, as was also envisaged with the introduction of the new financial review framework, the new ftk, as of 1 January 2015. Article 140 of the Pension Act provides that if the investment coverage rate is below the minimum required capital for five consecutive years, a measure is to be taken to restore the policy coverage rate of a fund directly, i.e. immediately. 50PLUS calls that the sword of Damocles hanging above the pensions of workers and pensioners. I quote De Nederlandsche Bank: "Although the current recovery plans show that there are hardly any pension funds that have to cut short-term pensions, some pension funds may have to cut pensions in the longer term. This is because the law limits how long a pension fund may be below the minimum level of cover of 104.2%. Pension funds that remain below that limit for five years will have to cut pensions." These are pension funds that are continuously under them for five years. The Netherlands Bank continues in the newsletter of 18 May: "Pension funds that have a lower coverage rate than 104.2% since 2015 or 2016 can be dealt with in 2020 or 2021. Based on the state of coverage levels by the end of 2016, this legal measure could mean that by 2020 nearly 2 million pensions would have to be reduced to 11 funds and by 2021 nearly 8 million pensions would have to be reduced to 45 funds. This discount may in some cases be significant. For example, if a pension fund has 100% coverage at the last measurement time, pensions should be reduced by about 4%. This is an unconditional discount." That is the difference between 104% and 100%. This is the impact of the FK of 2015. I used the words "financial future ruined" for this earlier in the First Chamber. As I pointed out, I did not quote from my own work, but from De Nederlandsche Bank's bulletin of 18 May 2017. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State on that sword from Damocles. 50PLUS says: Secretary of State and colleagues, do not sit on your hands; do not think it will blow over or loose, but avoid discounts that are not necessary either. It is good that the Cabinet recognises that current legislation creates legal uncertainty for general pension funds and banks as counterparties in the conduct of, among other things, derivatives transactions to hedge interest rate risk. The Secretary of State undertakes to regulate legal certainty through lower regulation. Is that still possible under this bill of assembly for this summer? What's this arrangement gonna look like? Now there is not enough clarity. We have tabled an amendment on accompanying policies for the abolition of the visitation committee on large company pension funds. The legislative proposal requires the establishment of a supervisory board for occupational pension funds with an invested capital of more than EUR 1 billion. That is wise in itself. It is also positive that the letter of amendment provides for greater account to be taken of power fluctuations through different moments of measurement. However, further clarification and adaptation of the scheme is desirable. I would like to make a few comments on this. Why is the obligation to set up a supervisory board not exempt from liquidating pension funds? According to the Secretary of State, liquidation proceedings can take a long time. This is an argument in itself, but multi-enterprise pension funds will no longer exist legally by 2020. It is therefore obvious to exclude those funds from the compulsory establishment of a supervisory board. Why not also make an exception for liquidating pension funds with a residual time horizon of three to five years? All this justifies legal adaptation and clarification. With regard to the obligation to set up a supervisory board only six months after the entry into force of the law, we find this period to be tight, especially in view of the prior evaluation of the visitation committees given to the First Chamber. In this context, I refer to the stenogram of the treatment of the Pension Fund Strengthening Act in the First Chamber on 9 July 2013. The Secretary of State skips that evaluation in a way. In that case, it is a short turn to say that the company pension funds have had sufficient time to prepare themselves. An implementation period of one year to create job profiles and look for good people for the Supervisory Board is justifiable and advocated. Furthermore, 50PLUS continues to believe that pensions of current and future generations can and should be indexed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u28	On the point for the last sentence, I have a question. Mr Van Rooijen rightly asked a number of questions. I read the amendment he tabled. I don't think that answers all of his questions. Does Mr Van Rooijen agree with me that it would have been more careful to complete the review of the visitation committee before we proceed with this legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u29	That would indeed have been preferable, but now that it has not been done, we are faced with the question of how we are dealing with this supervisory board.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u30	That is, of course, very much the question, because if we in the Chamber call on the Secretary of State to carry out the evaluation with speed, it should not be so difficult to come to the Chamber before the end of this year with a proposal to amend the law. Then we will do this on the basis of a thorough evaluation and then we will also have an answer to the questions put by Mr Van Rooijen but certainly also by me in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u31	We're talking about almost four years ago, when this was the case in the First Chamber. The Secretary of State was scheduled to come forward within a maximum of three years. Now that that has not happened, we say: trade in the new circumstance. But I agree with you that we can still ask the Secretary of State if and when this evaluation could have been carried out, because I agree with you that this evaluation should have been carried out. If it is not there yet, the question is what is wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that there are a lot of future pension participants in the public gallery, because it is also important for the younger generation that we continue to handle our pensions so that young people too know that they will get a good pension, a good old age and a good AOW in the future. Today, the collectible bill is ahead of us. A lot of debates have already been held in committee. For the vast majority of the collecting law, therefore, we as a PvdA express our support. I will explain the amendment tabled by us together with the SP on the people at risk of falling between shore and ship, but I would like to take this opportunity to look ahead as well. This collectible law contains a number of much-needed technical adaptations. That is good, but we know that the debate on pensions will hopefully not explode again in the coming years. I think that's important, because people need security in order to move forward in life. Without solid ground beneath the feet, it's hard to jump. This means security about work, income and protection if you are ill and also the assurance that you can enjoy a good old age with a good AOW and a good supplementary pension. However, we are seeing an increase in uncertainty and concerns, including in the area of pensions. The security we promised each other for years is very uncertain in terms of pensions. There is a kind of false certainty that is not being fulfilled. Indeed, these harsh guarantees from the past prove to be worth little in a world with inflation and ensure that pension funds are extremely sensitive to interest rates. People expect a guaranteed pension, but they don't get it. There has been no indexing for years and there may be a reduction. Fortunately, we have averted the latter with, among other things, the ftk adjustments. But the discussion is still alive. Older people are concerned, but young people are also wondering whether the contribution paid will ultimately lead to a good pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u33	There is a question from Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u34	I find this speech by the Labour Party somewhat surprising. Why? After all, it is the Labour Party that has been at the cutting edge in recent years. It would be nice to say to all those future pensioners: we were responsible for all those things that have created uncertainty. I thought it was the Labour Party that caused the uncertainty with which pension funds are now sitting. I mention, for example, the level of cover, which makes pension funds less wealthy on paper than they really are. It is precisely this paper reality that can be reduced. That's because of the Labour Party, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr De Jong refers to the past few years. I think it is precisely the Labour Party that has made the necessary adjustments in the area of pensions in recent years to give more room for pension funds. As a result, discounts have been averted. Indexation has still not been possible, which is also the concern of the Labour Party. But that requires a different debate. In recent years, despite the financial crisis, we have been able to take the necessary measures to keep pension funds under control. My plea now is: we must also look ahead and look at a system that is more focused on indexing, which can no longer be given firm guarantees but which will lead to a better pension for all generations, for both the elderly and young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u36	Of course I look back at the past few years. This morning, in a debate, Mr Asscher said that you should not speak to me now about what I have done in the past, because we live in the present. Now I hear another representative of the Labour Party say: you look to the past, but we are in the now and need to look to the future. That is all well and good, but it has been the Labour Party that has caused us to be in the misery we are now in. Here and there, do you want to add a refresher? The Labour Party has made sure that pensioners are more in trouble than ever before and that confidence in the pension system has never been as low as it is at present. How does Mr Van Dijk himself look back at that time? Are there any things he says, okay, I shouldn't have done that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u37	Especially in recent years, necessary measures have been taken, with adjustments to the pension system, to the legal framework, giving pension funds more room to cope with possible blows over several years. A large part of the Chamber has also voted in favour of this. If we hadn't, we'd probably have been at discounts. You can never guarantee that it will not be shortened or indexed. Those guarantees no longer exist. However, adjustments have been made in recent years which have given pension funds more room for manoeuvre and have been able to better protect participants. So in that sense I say, looking back at recent times, it was necessary that that has happened. At the same time, the Labour Party believes that we should now look forward to seeing how we are going to shape the system so that young people also know that there will be a healthy pension for them in 40 or 50 years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mr De Jong, brief and final.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u39	Yeah, I'm rounding up. Next week we will have a debate in which we will discuss the issues of pensions in greater depth. I will then ask the Labour Party a question about the calculation rate, with which pension funds have to count and which makes them less wealthy than they really are and which may have to cut them down. I will then ask her if she agrees with the PVV that it is not possible in this way and ask her to ensure that the discounts do not have to take place. Can the Labour Party please go along with the PVV on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u40	You cannot just increase the interest rate in this system, as the PVV might suggest, as well as perhaps 50PLUS. I can't. That really calls for a fundamental debate on a new system. Our party, and hopefully the whole Chamber too, is in favour of us having that debate in the new period of time. We are now at the end of a period of time. As far as I am concerned, this has everything to do with regaining the confidence of the participants, so that they feel that they have more vision and control over their pension. At the same time, as far as the Labour Party is concerned, we do so in a system in which we continue to do it together. Each time it turns out that it is the individual most profitable when you share together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u41	Perhaps Mr Van Dijk can respond to the quote from De Nederlandsche Bank that I mentioned. The Dutch Bank issued a strong warning that in 2020 and 2021 there could be unconditional, large discounts. Isn't it high time to take effective measures, especially since Mr Van Dijk and I know that a new pension system is in fact independent of this and certainly not legally effective in 2020 and 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u42	Mr Van Rooijen rightly points out the need for a debate on a new system. We should not push that for us endlessly, but we should feed it as quickly as possible. It is true that the current system beeps and creaks. We cannot look into the future and we cannot predict the financial movements in the market, but there is a chance that the current system will run into a wall. That is why it is also my plea to have this debate on the future together as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u43	That wasn't my question. My question is separate from the question of whether and when a new system will be in place, because it will take at least another four years. In the meantime, the autopilot of the ftk and the scheme of De Nederlandsche Bank are on it. If we are under 104.2% consecutively for five years that has been the case for two years now, and that can easily be five years at low interest rates, there will be unconditional, large discounts. For example, if the coverage rate is only 90%, there will be a 14% discount, unconditional. We shouldn't want that. Will Mr Van Dijk join us in thinking about how to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr Van Rooijen rightly points out the low interest rates and their dangers to the current system. As far as we have the opportunity from The Hague to do so, the Labour Party is always prepared to consider how to prevent this, so that pension funds can be given the opportunity to deal with this incredibly difficult financial situation as best as possible. So I'd like to think along. I'm gonna take a look ahead. The broader debate on pensions that we are having next week was rightly mentioned. Hopefully we will continue to debate where the system is going. How do we restore the necessary trust in pensions? I shall conclude with the amendment to item No. 11 that Mr Van Kent and I have tabled and the debate that has just taken place on this subject. Let me say it very precisely: this amendment aims to allow the present group of "savory candidates', who had not previously decided to adjust the benefit, because they had not foreseen the AOW-hole, to adjust the benefit once more. That is the first point. The second point is that there is a possibility that the AOW age will rise again and that the situation will arise that a group of people will retire, but will not receive an AOW. Then we need this arrangement again. That is the reason for its structural nature. The amendment is not intended as an incentive to stop earlier, to counter labour market participation or whatever. That's another debate. I also like to have that debate, because that is about things that may also be necessary, such as a flexible AOW, and about people who are having a hard time and want to stop working earlier. However, that debate goes far beyond this amendment. This amendment is aimed at the current group of apologists and the new group that may arise if the AOW age is raised again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u45	Mr Van Dijk says about the amendment that it is also possible for a new group. But doesn't that make it structural in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u46	It is a structural scheme in this respect. But it's meant purely in case we have another group that can't adjust the benefit, but has an AOW-hole. There was just a moment's debate about the possibility of taking up a pension earlier and then adjusting the level of it. That is not the intention of the amendment. It's just about the group of regrets and a possible future group. If it all comes up right away, it's probably a dying scheme. Because at some point that group will be ready. But I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State how she points out this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u47	That last remark is very sensible. I would also like to hear the opinion of the Secretary of State on the amendment, particularly with regard to the second group. I can place the first group, but I have the impression that it is a structural fact that is enshrined in the law by the second group. This may be an incentive for a larger group to retire earlier. Through you, Mr President, I ask for a response from the Secretary of State to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u48	I'm closing up. That is also my question to the Secretary of State. The amendment is aimed at the current group of apologists and at possible future groups dealing with an AOW-hole. We want to create the possibility of adjusting the benefit in the interim.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Van Dijk said, this debate on the Pensions Collection Act is a sort of snack on the way to the main course: a truly new pension system. This is a system in which the desire of individual pension savers, young and old, is central. We must ensure that we get the current false security out of the system. As a result, the chance of a good pension is increasing and we are addressing the discontent of both pensioners and many young people who are wondering what the hell they are paying for. A system that offers more room for customization. And yes, a system in which we continue to invest together, because we do not want millions of Dutch people to go to the stock market on their own with their pension savings. That's for the future. Now there is a collectible law ahead with a large number of different topics. I apologize in advance for the high heel-on-the-branch content of the points I want to bring in today. The first relates to the net pension. The report has already written a great deal about this between the Chamber and the Secretary of State. However, we received a letter from the Labour Foundation which sheds new light on the matter. The Labour Foundation has devised a practical solution to the problem of net pensions. The proposed solution allows participants with a net pension to purchase at the actual level of cover at a lower level of 100% and an upper limit of the required own funds. According to the Labour Foundation, this can be regulated by a ministerial arrangement. I would like today to be given the undertaking that the Secretary of State will come up with a solution and that we will be submitting it in a letter for the general consultation next week, as Mrs Lodder also asked. Apparently, the foundation has a workable solution. If the Secretary of State doesn't see it that way, I'd like to hear it. If she has other solutions, I'd like to hear them, too. I think that next week we should do something about it. The second point concerns the partner pension. Pension funds continue to deal differently with the question of who they want to accept as a partner of their pension saver. Too often they only do so if there is a marriage or a registered partnership; only then can you get a partner's pension. This regularly creates a strange situation. Theoretically speaking, my wife is considered by my pension fund to be my partner, while my wife's pension fund does not regard me as her partner. This is really inexplicable. I've been working on this for two years now. There was a recommendation from the Labour Foundation to pension funds to stop these differences. Yeah, they go about it, but people don't understand. Sometimes, after the death of their partner, they are confronted with very nasty surprises. Following written questions I have asked, we have received figures showing that, although the number of participants involved in this different assessment by different pension funds is among fewer pension funds, it affects more pension members. That is why I ask the Secretary of State when this will be resolved. I have the impression that we are repeating ourselves here. As far as I'm concerned, things aren't moving in the right direction fast enough. What is the Secretary of State doing in consultation with the social partners? I realize they're about pension schemes, but I can't explain this to people. The other point I cannot explain is the diversity in pension fund management, for example young workers in pension fund management. Everyone here probably knows the movie Groundhog Day, where every morning the day before that starts again. I now have this feeling in the debate on the diversity of pension fund management. Every time, it seems as if we have a repetition of the previous year's debate. I have been in the Chamber for four years now and every time it appears that, unfortunately, despite all the great efforts, it does not want to hurry. I had tabled a motion on this matter to the Chamber which was also adopted by the Chamber, asking the Secretary of State to enter into a further intensive discussion with the pension sector and to report before 1 May 2017. It may have slipped my mind, but I haven't seen that report yet. How are we doing with this? That's how I'm asking the Secretary of State. And I would like to say quite frankly that it is precisely important for the support of pension funds that participants are well-balanced, because people who work often have to take part in it. My group, together with the VVD Group, has once tabled an initiative law, and I see Mr Van Rooijen of the 50PLUS Group nodding to ensure that pensioners are given a place in government, but this issue of diversity also affects women and young people, and I think it is going too slowly. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what has been done with the motion and what the pension sector in particular is going to do. Otherwise, I can already see it: next year we will be back here again and we will see that we have worked very hard, but unfortunately we have not succeeded. This brings me to the recovery plans of the pension funds. I had already announced that I would jump some of the heel on the branch today. Figures from supervisor De Nederlandsche Bank show that the recovery plans are often based on strong over-rewards, but unfortunately these over-rewards have not been achieved in practice so far. As a result, there seems to be a gap between the timetable of recovery as set out in the recovery plans and the recovery as it has actually been for the past two years. I find that disturbing, because then it could be that we are counting our empire, that it will be disappointing and that we will pass the bill to the people in the age group who are now in the public gallery in a large majority. I wouldn't want that on my conscience, and I assume the Secretary of State doesn't want that either. How's this going? And how do we actually keep the finger on the wrist at this point, because it's nice that you can count on returns, but if it's disappointing this outcome can't be the intention. Many participants would also like to be able to see the recovery plans of their pension fund. I get a lot of questions about the openness of these recovery plans, for example to compare year by year whether the recovery is taking place. Some pension funds refuse to provide these plans to their members. How does the Secretary of State feel that pension funds should respond to such a request? Can the Secretary of State explain exactly what is now referred to in Article 46a (2) of the Pension Act, which deals with the rights of participants to public access?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u50	In the coming weeks and months, we will talk about the returns of pension funds. I would just like to point out here that only in 2008 during the major crisis and in 2015 yields were low to negative, if I remember correctly. Returns were negative in 2008 and practically zero in 2015. In 2016 and in the first part of 2017, the returns were extremely high and they were also between 2009 and 2014 during the crisis. If you take the average of that whole period, you're still at a percentage of generously over 5 and that's way above risk-free interest rates. Perhaps Mr Van Weyenberg could comment on that. I know that De Nederlandsche Bank believes that the returns are too low, but that is absolutely contrary to the above-mentioned facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u51	A few points. First of all, pension funds are simply not in good shape. We can have a whole debate on this, but that seems to me to be the reality. Secondly, the cases that increased the value of the shares in the portfolio, in particular the bonds, were the result of falling interest rates which also increased the liabilities. The balance of these two developments was that the funds still did not recover, despite the fact that the bonds became more valuable. If you just look at the expectations in the coverage rate development, as set out in the recovery plans and as it is happening now, we should be back at 107% or 108% by the end of 2016 according to the recovery plans in 2015. Unfortunately, that was not the case, I note. I know Mr Van Rooijen's solution: put a large sheet over your head, call that everything will be okay in the future and move the bill to the future. He has an initiative law for that and we will deal with it, but I think that is irresponsible gambling and I hope that Mr Van Rooijen will support my party in adjusting the pension contract with less nominal certainty. In this way you can get a better view of indexing, which I also strive for. However, the Central Planning Bureau is extremely clear about this in the passing on of Mr Van Rooijen's plans, among others, that you transfer the bill to young people and workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u52	Firstly, a response to the last remark: if Mr Van Weyenberg quotes the Central Planning Office, he must quote the right thing. The Planning Bureau says that the initiative legislative proposal is generation neutral, plus or minus 1%. Mr Van Weyenberg's comment concerns a completely different percentage, of 4. That's one. I'd be happy to bring a sheet next week. Then Mr Van Weyenberg can see what I look like when I pull the sheet over me compared to what I look like now. Bonds are only a small part of the investment portfolio. Mr Van Weyenberg's comments have had an impact. However, the big difference is that the value increase is on the entire portfolio, which consists largely of shares. The obligations remain nominally the same in themselves. Only the present value calculation of the constant liabilities has increased. As a result, this level of coverage is low, but commitments are not increasing either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u53	If Mr Van Rooijen wants to run through the room with a sheet over his head, I invite him to do so. I think we're all gonna enjoy that, but I'm really gonna leave that to him. I can see that Mr Omtzigt is quite wildly enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u54	It's been promised. It's been agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u55	It's in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u56	Yeah, it's in the Acts, so we can't go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u57	But again, I'll leave that to him. I come to Mr Van Rooijen's comment. The Central Planning Bureau passed on Mr Van Rooijen's own-initiative proposal. That's a weakening of his election program. In the election programme there is just a 4% interest rate and that is really the transfer of the account. But also with the temporary laying of a foundation in the initiative proposal you see redistribution. What I find interesting is that it is said: yes, that is only a generation effect of 1%. If you have 1,000 billion in the pot, a 1% redistribution still means taking away 10 billion from people. I would like to work with Mr Van Rooijen on more perspective on indexation, but then we have to adjust the pension contract and not put our heads in the sand, let alone walk through the plenary room with a sheet over our head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u58	Mr President, you will understand that I will discuss my own initiative proposal at a later date. This is again a question of carefully quoting. The Planning Bureau talks about a 2% bottom of the own-initiative proposal. If that soil is temporary, up to five years, as is also stated in our initiative, then the difference is....................................................................................................... That's what I call on average 0. Mr Van Weyenberg must quote in full. +1 or -1 is really in the margin. We will have that debate in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u59	Suppose I sit in the public gallery and hear that 10 billion of my pension money is being taken away, while that is called "in the margins." It wouldn't be my choice of words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u60	Mr Van Weyenberg is continuing. Very briefly, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u61	This language, about immediately cutting 10 billion, makes no sense at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u62	Fine, but that sheet's on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u63	I see the chairman can't get the sheet out of his head anymore. I apologize for putting that in there. Finally, this brings me to the bridging pension and the amendment tabled by colleagues from the SP and the Labour Party. I have to confess that I'm struggling, because I'm having trouble looking at the exact impact of it. On the one hand, you have a group of regrettants, people who were entitled to use a scheme in their pension scheme for a more flexible adjustment of their pension level of their pre-retirement, at their own expense. That deadline and that possibility ended on 1 July 2016. You might consider temporarily opening that possibility to the people who haven't made use of it. I can imagine. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. However, the proposal goes further, namely to give people the opportunity to adjust the pension rate in the future if their pre-retirement has already started and the AOW age is being increased. This is announced five years in advance, so the vast majority of people will have been able to take this into account. I just can't quite see what I'm saying yes to. This has already been demonstrated in previous debates with Mrs Lodders and Mr Snels. I don't want to re-introduce any incentive for pre-retirement. I have heard that the proposers also say that this is not the intention. Nevertheless, I am concerned, even in the written debates that have been on this subject, that this would be the result, but apparently unintentionally. I am particularly curious to hear a detailed explanation from the Secretary of State. I can really imagine removing concrete problems and bottlenecks, especially for people who have been pre-retirement in recent years. However, I am afraid that we will adopt an amendment whose consequences are not 100% clear. So I look forward to the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mr. Chairman. This is a collective law, with three criteria to be met: coherence, limited in scope and complexity, and not politically controversial. As a new MP, I have to say that I think it's funny, because what else is it all about today? At least I can be quite short. I will confine myself to three issues in the law itself: the supervisory boards, on which I had a little debate earlier, the digital communication and the extension of the distribution periods. I'll start with the Visitation Committees and the Supervisory Boards. A few years ago, I myself was a vzzp'er for a few years. At the beginning of that period I had to think about how I would earn my living, along with all the other nice things I was going to do as a zzp'er. Then I came into conversation with people who were on visitation committees at pension funds. That turned out to be an interesting market for people who are a bit financially skilled, but also want to make a little money quickly. I didn't feel good about it. I never even started it. However, I wondered whether that was the best way to monitor pension funds. In short, I agree with the proposal to require supervisory councils to improve internal supervision. However, the question is why this obligation is limited to funds with a capital of 1 billion. Is that just because the Secretary of State is waiting for the review of the Pension Fund Enhancement Act? Why is this evaluation important for smaller rather than larger funds? The administrative burden seems to me to be limited; it cannot be a sufficient reason for this division. A split that causes problems again, because you have to determine when a fund is just above or just below the border. The Netherlands Bank, I understand, sees no reason to make this distinction. I read the note on the report, but I did not find any convincing arguments for this split either. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u65	Before Mr Snels goes to the next subject, I would like to ask a question about the point of the Visitation Committee versus the Supervisory Board. I hear Mr Snels saying that he is in favour of requiring the Supervisory Board, but at the same time I also hear a number of questions. Have these questions been adequately dealt with and sealed? Do we not have the interest of the pensioners and the participants here? Is it clear what the costs for the occupational pension funds are when they have to go to a compulsory supervisory board? This leads to additional costs. Due to the field there are also quite a few comments. And perhaps it also gives a different picture than the Secretary of State outlined in the explanatory statement. How does Mr Snels feel about that? Should we involve that? Have we done so sufficiently in dealing with the collection law, or is it necessary to involve it in the evaluation as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u66	I agree with the proposal to introduce supervisory boards as soon as possible. But my specific question is: why not go much further? Mrs. Lodders wants to postpone, but I want to speed things up. My questions were mainly about the why of that 1 billion limit. I can imagine, especially in the case of very small funds that are in the process of being settled, that you are looking at whether there are any supervisory boards to be set up there. But those are other criteria. I had questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u67	I believe that we can come to the conclusion that these criteria are not sufficiently secure in this legislative amendment. In the end, the participants and pensioners in particular will suffer from this rapid change, because we do not fully understand which funds are in liquidation, how the settlement is going to be done and how much time they need to do so. This also applies to the funds which are required to go to a supervisory board, perhaps for a period of one and a half years. What does that mean for the cost? After all, the costs must be borne by the pensioners and the members of the fund concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u68	But the Secretary of State has given an insight into the costs of the note on the report, and I did not find the costs so worrying that it is a reason to refrain from doing so. However, I agree with Mrs Lodder that the Secretary of State still has a number of questions to answer as to which criteria could play a further role in the question of whether or not a supervisory board should be set up. Then I come to electronic information. It is a question of asking permission to provide information by electronic means. That consent may also be done digitally with this bill. It goes without saying that we are increasingly communicating digitally in this age and that, even in the case of communication about pensions, written communication gradually disappears, but we have quite a few elderly people who are not yet connected to the digital highway. They collect letters from, for example, the Tax Administration but also from pension funds. They put them in a drawer of a closet and once a year they ask a friend, a volunteer or one of the children I speak from my own experience to go through that pile of paper and help with the administration; sometimes they have a laptop with them. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that these elderly people do not accidentally end up on the digital highway, when they do not want to or can oversee it themselves? Should it happen, is it very easy to fix? Finally, I would like to comment on the extension of five to ten years of the distribution period for the variable benefit in the event of accidents. The proposal is based on a request from the First Chamber. I understand the considerations and the pros and cons. However, the legislative proposal and the note on the report are quite brief about the disadvantages. In the case of persistent failing investment results, the securities may be significant for benefits at a later age. This is, in fact, an individual example in the note on the basis of the report. But what if there's a new financial crisis that lasts for about five years? How big is the effect? How many benefits could it be? Can the Secretary of State give me a sense of that? 'Cause I don't have that yet. Finally, there is one point that relates to this. I believe that Mr Van Rooijen asked for this too. It is only up to the pension administrator to opt for longer deadlines, but this must be done on the basis of the wishes of the participants, including good information and communication?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u69	I call Mr Omtzigt. He's gonna talk to us for 20 minutes. "maximum 20 minutes," he says, but we know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u70	What do you mean by that, Mr. Chairman? Everyone looks at me so nicely. Mr. Chairman. Well, pensions. It is 1 300 billion, it is a good old age, it is a lot of money and a lot of people who deal with it properly, so the public gallery is empty when we debate it. To get all the attention in the newspaper you better put a wrong CD-ROM in your car than, like these spokesmen, look at how you handle the rights of 3 million pensioners and 10 million workers. That's politics in this country, unfortunately. In any case, I would like to thank Mr Van Rooijen for making us happy next time by appearing here in a sheet. This will undoubtedly be the central issue in the debate on pensions in the Chamber this year, at least according to the press. Somewhere, of course, that's a bit of a shame. The Secretary of State has been running an important portfolio for the past four years. This could be the last plenary debate on this subject if a number of other people manage to form a government, which is not always easy, it is said. Anyway, there's still a collectible law here with quite a few important points. Most of them have already come by. First, I have some questions about things that aren't in the law. For my first question, I agree with Mr Van Rooijen. I actually think that De Nederlandsche Bank's wish to regulate legally that he should have given consent to mergers and divisions should have been incorporated into the law. De Nederlandsche Bank gave that to us in October. What is going on if De Nederlandsche Bank says several times the last time in October that this is not included in a collecting law? Is there any possibility of settling this through, for example, a letter of amendment? We'll get back to it next week, but I'll take a little advance on it anyway. The biggest thing that's been settled is the Pension Directive. After several questions and after six months the monkey actually comes out of the sleeve. The Pension Directive leads to dozens of changes in Dutch pension legislation. It's not in this collectible law, because it's written before. Couldn't that have been made public before? Every time it was told, it has no effect. Well, it has effect, and how! I don't think it's a very nice piece of this Secretary of State's legacy. By the way, are there any other pieces in this collectible law that need to be reversed or changed as a result of the IORP directive? It's also about things like disclosure and the like. Now that it has finally become clear, the letter of amendment, which I have just come to discuss, could be in conflict with the IORP. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? At a later date, I will come back to the motion for a resolution on ECB policy and the effects on Dutch pensions. Two reports were written on this yesterday, from De Nederlandsche Bank and the Central Planning Bureau, but again there is no estimate of the total effect. There are some descriptive rules. Is there going to be another estimate of the effect? I have another point about the WAO bridging allowance and why it's not in it. I await the answer to the amendment tabled by the Labour Party and the SP. I come to a number of issues in the law that have a significant effect. First I come to Mrs Lodder's bill. She suggested that if you invest yourself, you take the profits and losses immediately. After the Secretary of State and Mrs Lodders came round the table, that became a kind of five-year compromise. Then the European Community thought: we are going to amend that to ten years. That seems extremely sympathetic, but it is not. If you get a significant negative shock on the pension assets you have to invest yourself and you lose 20 to 25% because you're in stock, and you're gonna spread that loss over ten years, then you're only gonna cut by 2% a year. However, every time you eat a large part of your pension assets. After ten years, you're gonna have to cut again. If there is another negative shock in those ten years, and unfortunately it happens on markets, then your pension may also be 50% lower at one time. What seems sympathetic at the beginning, therefore, can be extremely forward-looking for that participant. I have just tabled an amendment to item No. 12 with the aim that pension funds explicitly warn their members if they opt for a spread period of more than five years. That's in their own best interest. In doing so, the Secretary of State can keep her promise to the First Chamber, that it is in the law, but you can also protect people from themselves a little bit. They get thick packages if they put even €25 in an investment fund, but if they take this decision that can lead to half the pension, a warning is also in place. The letter of amendment contained a very nice thing. The Secretary of State took over our text, for which I am grateful. There was also a second piece in it. I see I'm getting things mixed up. I'll start with the pension ABC. This collectible law states that you no longer have to mention the scenarios on the pension ABC. All you have is the central scenario. You don't have to mention the positive and negative scenario anymore. If we have learned one thing, and Mr Van Weyenberg has already mentioned it, it is that pensions are quite uncertain. To pretend now that there's only one central scenario that's gonna come out in 40 years with this pension... I thought we learned that unfortunately that's not the case. I simply find it really unwise what the Secretary of State is doing in the letter of amendment: removing the scenarios from communication. If you take it out, you're actually saying that pension is about certain. I know that this is the wish of Mr Van Rooijen, for example, and I understand that, but unfortunately it is not the reality. So let's make that clear in communication, too. With the amendment in part No. 13 I propose to take that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr Omtzigt says that pensions are not certain. I think that is today's understatement and perhaps for longer. Can Mr Omtzigt explain to me or explain to me why it says in the ftk that you have to work with a risk-free interest rate for the obligations? The reasoning is that they are nominal liabilities to be met by a fund. Then you have to take a risk-free interest rate and take no account of return in any way, and you can take that into account for the premium provision. Could Mr Omtzigt perhaps explain that? Pensions aren't sure. Nor does it make sense to state in the law that only a risk-free interest rate should be used. The Netherlands is, by the way, the only country in Europe to do so. And that means that we also have the lowest calculation rate here. It is an interest rate, Mr Omtzigt, and not a real interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u72	The interest rate is the real interest rate. Mr Van Rooijen knows that. However, that real interest rate is very low and that is very annoying. As far as we are concerned, this is because of the ECB's policy. We want this policy to be reversed as soon as possible. Then both the real interest rate and the arithmetic interest rate will go up again. Now it seems that it should be the ambition of pension funds not only to pay out the nominal pension, but also to index again. That is also the wish of the 50PLUS Group, when I read the electoral programme of that party and hear the statements of the various Members of Parliament. For those real liabilities, pension funds do not have to reserve on their own. The money for that can be taken out of the buffer and the over-efficiency. Therefore, the consideration has been made to have the money in the house for the nominal security, while no reservations need to be made for the indexation. If the pension funds that have now recovered slightly and have an average coverage rate of just over 100% were to include the indexation and opt for so-called real coverage rates, then you would come to the disappointing conclusion that the real coverage rate is around 75%. That percentage depends on the degree of ageing of such a fund. So there's been a trade-off. One has chosen to have the nominal part in cash on the one hand. This has also been promised a little harder, although not as hard as insurance companies. But on the other hand, funds do not have to have the real part in full. That's the trade-off that's in the law. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u73	Mr Omtzigt also knows that for decades almost no pension fund has an obligation to index. In the case of strong pension funds too, this was called a "dense intention'. Only if there was an excess return on capital that was there in the past was indexing allowed. I would like to come back to that risk-free interest rate. The interest rate is low right now. However, can Mr Omtzigt explain to me why, when calculating the present value of pension liabilities from 20 years to 60 years, 60 years should be extrapolated to today's interest rate? Short-term interest rates are indeed low. Ten-year interest rates are low, too. But long-term interest rates cannot always remain so low in advance. But that's what they're counting on. One assumes a kind of status quo of 60 years. There's no basis for that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr President, with your approval, I am now going into retirement technology. That's a good way to get rid of all the audience.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u75	Yeah, I'm afraid this is at the expense of our ratings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u76	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u77	I'm guessing that the good ratings are all available at the hearings today. There is a false assumption in Mr Van Rooijen's question. Up to 20 years the real interest is used. That real interest rate is low. But if I am an insurer and I have to make the promise to pay out in 20 years' time, there is only one way I can re-insure it, namely in the market at the interest rate that currently applies to current loans. Then you cannot say: these loans are now only 1.5% for 20 years. I don't know exactly how much it is. You can't just say, "Despite that, I'm just pretending to make a 3% return." You can't guarantee such a return. So you take the interest. If you assume 60 years, you're on the Ultimate Forward Rate (UFR), and you're way above 3. Then you can count on a slightly higher return.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u78	Interesting that Mr Omtzigt now also mentions the UFR. With me, he knows that the UFR for insurers is 4.2 until today, and in the coming years it will be slightly reduced to 3.65 in 2021. Now it comes: the UFR for pension funds was made of fixed 4.2 two years ago variable, with a ten-year rolling average, which means that in two years the UFR for pension funds has already been reduced from 4.2 to, we read yesterday in the letter from Finance, 2.9. The Minister writes coolly that in 2018 this is 2.3 already. In other words, the UFR for pension funds will fall by 2 in two years and, for insurers, for which it is 4.2 now, will fall by 0.5 in three to four years' time. In other words, there is a huge difference between the UFR of pension funds and that of insurers. That cannot be explained, because pension funds have a soft obligation and insurers have a hard-on. Actually, pension funds would...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u79	You're supposed to ask a question and not lecture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u80	Mr Omtzig invites me to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u81	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u82	No, I'm not. In fact, we have a debate on this tomorrow, requested by Mr Van Rooijen, a debate that is explicitly about the UFR. If I answer all these questions now, I will make that debate quite superfluous. For my agenda, I would like that very much, but he has requested a separate debate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u83	That's right, we'll do that tomorrow. But I only responded to the UFR because you mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u84	Oh, I'm sorry about that. Apparently, there's a list of illegal cases, from Black Piet to UFR. I'll adjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u85	That's exactly what I'm
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u86	We're gonna go on cheerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u87	When it comes to digitization of communication, for example from the government, my group is always very critical. However, this legislative proposal contains a very sensible form of extending the possibility to request electronic consent for electronic data provision: you will then receive an email asking if you want to receive it by email from now on. I thank the Secretary of State for the letter of amendment, which makes it much clearer. Only now, the written answers show that there is nothing arranged for the retention of this information in the electronic data transmission system that e-mail you receive from your pension fund every year. At the Tax Office it is arranged that, if you have had an e-mail from the Tax Office, it ends in your government portal. You can get him back on Mijn Belastingdienst.nl over the last ten years. I am currently having a discussion with the Secretary of State for Finance that he has to make twelve years of it, because he can lift back another twelve years. What happens to the e-mails from your pension fund? It must be kept by the citizen or himself or he must print them out and put them in that beautiful drawer that Mr Snels has made available to his parents. That may be possible, but I don't think that's the most logical way that can happen. It seems logical to me that pension funds should have the same status as the Tax Administration: if they provide it electronically, they must store it themselves in their backup database. Then they can do two things: they can send you the whole package once a year on request, so you can see what happened to the overviews in recent years, or they can set up the same kind of portal as at the Tax Office. I prefer the latter, but if it's first, that's fine too. But if we don't, we're gonna print each other's things out. With a pension fund, it's gonna take a little longer. I therefore propose that they keep that until one year after your death, or even a year after the death of the survivor's pension. That could be just 80 years. But, yeah, computer storage isn't very expensive these days. You can't do that with retroactive effect. I understand that very well. My amendment therefore assumes that pension funds should keep everything that will be sent electronically from next year. If they don't then I know what happens: someone's mailbox is erased once and then we lose all pension statements and we can never get them back. Also in a number of specific cases, such as divorce, where you want to know how it's solved, before you split it up, it's very nice that you can see that. Especially if you later have to make a difference between what was built up before marriage and what was built during marriage, according to the law we voted against, but which continued. Then it's very nice to be able to get the pension statement back from the year before your marriage and that from the year of the divorce. In general, people are not so good at making a list of what they should do when they get divorced. I have some understanding for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u88	I would, of course, also like to have the reaction of the Secretary of State to the amendment, especially in the context of privacy. I am thinking now of perhaps it can be taken into account in the amendment that it might be much more sensible to transfer it to my pension statement anyway. That might take away a few bumps. Has Mr Omtzigt thought of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u89	That's why I mentioned a portal. If it can be in a portal of my pension statement, where the pension funds agree that they put it in there, then as far as I am concerned, they have materially complied with what I wanted with the amendment. However, that pension statement is currently only about your current claims, while sometimes it can be very useful to have a look back at exactly what happened to the pension. That is why it is sometimes very nice that you still have the old pension statements at your disposal. Another remarkably written reply from the Secretary of State concerned the protection of personal data. Pension funds should report a data breach to the Personal Data Authority and to the person responsible for the data. Insurers don't have to report a data breach to the person who the data is about. However, pension funds and insurers are each other's direct competitors. Does the Secretary of State consider this difference to be justified? Is she willing to straighten this out? Another part of this collectible law is the transfer of value at rematch. The insurance companies have promised to cooperate. However, it is only a jurisdiction in the law. Insurers are therefore allowed to offer the rematch. Now they have promised, but promises and insurers... why hasn't the government made an obligation to do so? Does the Secretary of State currently have any idea which insurers will and will not offer this? If it's a jurisdiction and the insurer says "we're not gonna do it," then it can't. Can the Secretary of State come forward with a letter of amendment, or with a promise that all insurers will cooperate, so that that power can also be used? Finally, when Mr Van Weyenberg referred to Rule 36a (2). If we're gonna make it technical, we're really gonna do it. That article deals with the inspection of participants in certain important matters of their pension fund. The obligation exists, but compliance is inadequate. Let me give you an example. The high costs of pension funds can be seen, but we do not know how accurate the data are. My question as to whether there is a sanction and whether a sanction has ever been imposed on a pension fund for its incorrect or incomplete publication was not answered. However, there are many billions of costs that are incurred each year and are paid out of pension funds, either left or right. That is why I would like to ask the Secretary of State for a very specific commitment. It can be done by way of a motion, but I'm still so old-fashioned that commitments seem more enjoyable to me. Would the Secretary of State ask De Nederlandsche Bank and the AFM how the specific supervision of costs is respected? Are the costs correctly and fully reported? Is there sufficient access to that? If there is a good answer in half or three quarters of a year, we can see whether it is too high or too low, whether compliance is good and what we want with it. I think it would be a good idea to put that question first with the supervisors. Then we can talk about whether a sanction would be appropriate. It remains bizarre that participants are not entitled to access to court cases or settlements of their own pension funds. It is then a matter of settling one's own money and court cases that we know are being conducted. As a pensioner, you can't even know that. What exactly is the background to that? The combination of pension funds and divorce remains a tragedy. The review of the law on compensation pension rights in divorce should be completed by now. It would be there by the end of May and I think it is already early June. We have always had a preference for splitting. The special survivor's pension is particularly incomprehensible. Is the evaluation ready? When can the Chamber see it? How do we proceed with that? Then I have a few small points, starting with the Supervisory Board. Mrs Lodders has already gone into this in detail. I continue to find it strange, and I am more on Mrs Lodder's side than on Mr Snels' side, that you first set up the supervisory board and abolish the visitation and then evaluate exactly how the visitation went. When will we see the evaluation of the visits? Wouldn't it make more sense to take a decision on abolishing it? Mr Snels' question of whether 1 billion is a logical limit can therefore be included. I have tabled a slightly different amendment from Mrs Lodder's. My amendment says that it will come into force in the law that it will be abolished, but that it will only come into effect after the Court has received a communication on this subject after the evaluation. So even then, the Secretary of State can quietly say in the First Chamber that she keeps her promise. Then we will evaluate first, do things neatly, and then implement instead of vice versa. Then the clarification of the moments of measurement of the policy coverage rate. I keep finding it a nice way to expand it from five to six.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u90	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u91	Mr Omtzig finishes first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u92	I have a brief question about the previous remark, about the evaluation. In the meantime, there is an unknown one, perhaps for a longer period of time, in which the current rules will continue to apply. We think they're undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u93	You don't think it's right. You find these undesirable on the basis of an evaluation or an insight. I think it is useful to have some insight into this rather than simply abolishing it and then evaluating it. Then we don't take the evaluations seriously. It is nice that clarification of the moments of measurement leads to an additional year. We agree, but it is not a technical change. The answers to that were really along the edge and a bit over. Finally, thank you for the right of appeal, which now also applies to occupational pension funds. In my original amendment, I would not have done so. I can understand it. I think it's nice to do it. In my view, occupational pension funds were slightly different from other pension funds, because employers' and employees' roles coincide. So that participation council is the same as the board. After all, the board is formed by all those people. So I think it is less necessary there, but I think it is a good thing that this is being implemented. That also holds a logic between those two laws. Those were all my points, Mr. Chairman. It was a bit of a collection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u94	It's also a collectible law, so it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u95	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u96	That was a good question about the settlement law and the evaluation. As far as I am concerned, that law can be brought up to date. Mr Omtzigt and I asked for this together once. I was gonna do it at next week's general consultation, but I'm gonna go along with this. I have a question about Mr Omtzigt's amendment on digital storage. In terms of starting point, I can imagine a lot of it. You have to make sure that something that's digital doesn't just disappear if you want to check it again. The only thing I have a slight hesitation about is this. If we were to decide this now, I wouldn't have a hundred percent focus on what tax I'm imposing. Basically, I agree. Has Mr Omtzigt considered tabling a motion asking for this to be sorted out? I'm thinking about the IT implications or the costs. As sympathetic as it may be, we are making meters very quickly without having research into costs and possible ICT risks. I know that Mr Omtzigt always attaches great care. I am just looking for: why did he choose an amendment and not a motion? Again, it is not that I do not agree on the goal, but I want to avoid saying yes to something behind which suddenly all kinds of problems appear to arise in IT or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u97	That is why I deliberately did not give this amendment any retroactive effect or anything at all. It's just about the statements being sent. Keeping outgoing letters is standardized in almost every organization, whether it be a government organisation or another organisation. Those letters get a signature. Organizations can use the bsn. If pension funds can do the same, they can also index more easily. Then they can add that to their website. The only thing is that that bsn must be linked to another bsn when someone marries in the future. Something else has to be added to that. But this will really not pose a problem of world-size. If I'd had that assessment, I'd have done it another way. I think the other problem, the problem of non-storage, is much bigger. I have dealt several times with people who have changed employers several times and have not been able to check where those pension statements were. They didn't get it. The right address was no longer available. That's not gonna happen here. There is also another problem now. If you do not pass on your new e-mail address to your pension fund or if your pension fund uses an incorrect e-mail address, that overview will never come to you at all. If, after a few years, you think, "I hope I will build up a pension, but those statements won't come up," it's nice that you can say to your pension fund: boys, you've all sent it to the wrong address; send it to me now. I'm sure that's what you're saying with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u98	Let there be no misunderstanding that I support the purpose of this. Mr Omtzigt's concerns are also mine. I'm only struggling with the following. We've had the Elias Commission here, who's been looking at IT things. That was about the government itself, while this is about the pension funds, but I still feel a slight hesitation. Perhaps the Secretary of State could elaborate on that. Normally we have BIT research into all IT implications, because we have learned rather hard lessons from the past. Aren't we moving too fast here? Shouldn't we take an intermediate step? I hope that Mr Omtzigt's optimism is justified. If the Secretary of State shouts in a moment because he can do it all, I am reassured and I am going to vote blindly for this amendment. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to give some explanation, not because I do not share the objective, but because I do not...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u99	Clear. That's a question for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u100	What happens here, namely that you keep a copy of every email sent, is by default in every email system. I don't come here with a completely new system at the IRS. I've come up with the suggestion to keep everything that's been sent. If IT people are good at one thing, it's logging and storing the things they've sent. If you build new systems, you're gonna get in trouble. That's also in the bill, because at once you don't have to put everything on your pension ABC with retroactive effect, so that website has become much less relevant at once. It's nice that the pension funds pushed that through with the Secretary of State, but it's gonna take 40 years for the relevant information to be on it. Why was that necessary? I'll just add that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u101	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u102	I have six minutes left, Mr President. What are we gonna do with that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u103	Give it to charity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u104	Yeah, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u105	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr De Jong of the Group of the Party for Freedom. When he's finished speaking, I'll pause for half an hour, so the Secretary of State can think about all the answers and all the difficult questions and technical exercises you've thrown at her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u106	Mr. Chairman. For those who are still awake: today we are discussing the Pensions Collection Act 2017. This bill consists of a number of adaptations to different pension laws. That should be very modest changes. They should not be very complex or political in nature, but the latter is not always the case when it comes to pensions. Before I discuss the content of this law, I would like to make a general comment on this subject. We can look back on a lot of government interventions in the pension sector. We can say that this has put the pension funds in the Netherlands under particular pressure. For millions of Dutch people, the threat of reductions in their pensions is still not out of the blue, as De Nederlandsche Bank warned a few weeks ago. For more than 50 funds, involving millions of pensions, the financial position is not yet at the minimum required level. That is completely unnecessary. After all, funds have some EUR 1,400 billion in cash. However, the funds are poor due to previous political interventions, due to the rules that are invented in this house. Like they'd lose their money in one day! It is perhaps one of the last times that we will be discussing the pension in plenary with this State Secretary. So it is also very tempting for me to talk about the dramatic increase in the AOW age, to point out that the interest rate has been raised and that pension funds should only be indexed from a coverage rate of 110%, to say that we should never have had that terrible financial review framework, so that full indexation can only take place at a coverage rate of 130%, which is also such a deterioration, or to mention the IORP Directive, so that more European influence is exerted on our pension system. However, next week we will have a wide-ranging debate on this. So I'm saving it. Before that, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how she looks at this breakdown, at all these deteriorations. I now go into the substance of the collectible law. In principle, the PVV supports the ambition to strengthen pension management and has previously expressed a positive opinion on a mandatory supervisory board for an occupational pension fund. In this respect, in the opinion of the PVV Group, the tightening-up of company pension funds is appropriate. Trust is good, but supervision is better. I have two more questions about this. It is striking, and it has just been mentioned, that the review of the Pension Fund Strengthening Act is not yet in place, but that company pension funds with assets above 1 billion are already required to set up a Supervisory Board. Does this mean that the review of the Reinforcement Act points pension funds in this direction? I'd like to get a response on this point. Furthermore, at a time when our beautiful pension system is increasingly under pressure due to poor government policy, it is a good thing that variable benefits extend the distribution period of participants from five to ten years. There will also be a transfer of value in the event of a rematch, so that people who have suffered from historically low interest rates will receive a new option in the form of variable pension benefits. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many people are going to make use of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u107	I thought there would be another point, but my question is about the previous point: making a supervisory board compulsory. I hear Mr De Jong say that the PVV Group is actually in favour of this. However, I do not hear any substantive questions from the Secretary of State. I am referring, for example, to funds for liquidation, which may only be an enterprise fund for six months to one and a half years, and which would still have to set up a supervisory board for that period. How, according to Mr De Jong, should the costs of such an enterprise pension fund be covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u108	First of all, I am very fond of the egerness with which Mrs Lodder has been coming to the interrupting microphone throughout the debate. That is her right, but that same passion, that same fire, I did not see, for example, when the IORP directive was piloted through the Chamber. At some point, there was the brexiretum. They waited for it to get through. A very incriminating bill was then rushed through in two days. This is partly due to the VVD. This has had a huge impact, and it has to this day and in the future, on what our pension system looks like. That to start with. I would have preferred to have seen that egerness there too and not just at this point. There are legitimate questions about this obligation. That is why we have also said that we are in favour of it in principle, but that we would also like to have the response of the Secretary of State to the questions that have already been asked in the Chamber about compulsory procedure. How does she view the evaluation? That is also an important point for us. As far as costs are concerned, the documents provided for by the Secretary of State are as follows: That is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u109	That was a very nice distraction by Mr De Jong, but of course I do not fall for that. We have indeed talked about the IORP directive. In any case, this leads to more power for De Nederlandsche Bank with regard to the Dutch participants. We have had that debate. I would be happy to have that with Mr De Jong a few more times. This is what it's all about. If an enterprise pension fund is to liquidate and requires six months to one and a half years to do so, then the costs will be deposited with the pensioners and with the participants if Mr De Jong gives his support to the bill. I don't hear any condition. I may hear between the lines a very small question to the Secretary of State. Or can I conclude that the PVV considers these costs equally subordinate at the moment? I'd weigh both things equally. We're talking about a collectible bill here. There are no complex political issues in that law. We have mentioned the three criteria of the cabinet a number of times in various interrupting debates. This just doesn't fit. This law has not been evaluated and a provision is simply amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u110	That is the input of the VVD Group. Mrs. Lodders has already brought this in today. I started by saying that we support it in principle, to ensure that there is more supervision. Because trust is good, but supervision is better. That's in the interests of all those participants. All kinds of questions have been asked to the Secretary of State in this Chamber and I can all repeat those questions with regard to that evaluation. I myself asked a question about this evaluation, Mrs Lodders tabled an amendment and so there are others who have done so. But it is up to the PVV Group to conclude what it will do with that vote. It is important for us that the Secretary of State should answer the questions. What about the evaluation and has it been done so well that we can make these changes directly? But for us, it is most important that there is proper supervision. In the end, this is better for both pension funds and participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u111	Briefly concluding, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u112	My question was about costs. There are examples of a number of specific cases, such as those mentioned above, which are now very easily deposited with pensioners and participants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u113	I do not hear a question, but I understand that that question was also put to the Secretary of State. Let's wait quietly for the Secretary of State's answer. Mrs Lodders is so enthusiastic about her own amendment. Speaking of debate techniques... She's pulled out a point where she's gonna take a break. That is absolutely fine, but in recent years it has been partly responsible for the breakdown of this pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u114	Don't do that, because now Mrs. Lodders is going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u115	That's the story and she should take responsibility for it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mrs Lodders briefly and then you continue, Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u117	Has Mr. De Jong been razed? Mr President, I do not think this is right for this debate. We're talking here about a collect law on pensions. I think the VVD Group has shown enough what we are doing in recent years. On the contrary, we are fighting for the pensioners and the participants. It would adorn the PVV Group if it were looked at with a little more respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u118	That is what the PVV Group itself is about, and I would like to say to Mrs Lodder: take responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u119	Very good. Are you finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u120	I would just like to touch briefly on the closed funds and access to a general pension fund. In the interest of the participants in a closed fund, the Government considers it desirable to always allow the settlement of the terminated scheme with a general pension fund. We support that principle. But how does the government safeguard the interests of those who have a pension claim to a closed fund? I'm rounding up. In February of this year, De Financieele Dagblad said: "The revision of the pension system that the sector is working on is not going to restore the broken trust in pension funds. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau warns about this in the recently published report Issues for choosing. According to the SCP, the pension debate now focuses mainly on improving procedures, while participants assess the pension system on the outcomes. As long as the level of pension does not improve, many pensions have not been adjusted to purchasing power for years or even shortened, it will be difficult to regain confidence." This should ring all the alarm bells. We had such a good pension system, but it's getting worse and worse. Trust in our pension system is sadly low. How does the Secretary of State look back on that after all these years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u121	So much for the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 4.45 p.m. so that the Secretary of State can give some thought to the answers. It strikes me that we are dealing with some kind of general reflections on pensions, while today's debate is really about a collectible law. I hope that in the first term of the cabinet we can return to the subject that brings us here today. I'll see you all at 4:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u122	We're gonna go on cheerful. We're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. I'd love it if it didn't turn out to be night work today, but then I speak in a personal capacity. All of us can come a long way, I think. And again, next week you have an AO Pension topics and tomorrow you have a 30-member debate. So you can get on with the subject. If we can keep it short and pointy and confine ourselves to the collectible law, it would be worth it to me. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u123	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the Chamber who have contributed. As you said, Mr President, these contributions are sometimes broader than just the collectible law. I can do two things; this is how it always goes in the preparation of your own first term. I can very much zoom in on the very broad spectrum that has been put forward here. For that I have been given a separate folder by my dear employees. I'm not too bad for that either, but we'll be busy for a while. I should like to suggest that at first instance I simply refer to the collectible law as such, because there have also been very commendable points raised on this issue. If Members think 'but this issue from my first term is so urgent and pressing; this must be brought up immediately', then I would very much like to hear it in the second term from the various spokesmen. Then, of course, I absolutely intend to go into that in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u124	I can live well with that and, as far as I am concerned, those answers can also come in writing. If they're there for next Tuesday, the spokesmen who want to do something with it can raise that in next week's AO Pension topics. However, I have asked myself once or twice why something has not been included and whether this could be done by letter of amendment, but that obviously has a relation to the subject for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u125	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u126	I agree with the suggestion of written answers well before the AA. That is fine with me for topics such as diversity and next of kin. Maybe I'm surprised by the force of action in the answers; you never know. But around the net pension I would like an indication today. Several colleagues have asked about this. We also asked the Secretary of State to come forward with a proposal for the AA. Then it is all right if today we have an indication of whether the Secretary of State wishes to go with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u127	That also has a relationship with the collectible law, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u128	Sure. Well, not so much with the collecting law as such, but it's the prelude to next week's general consultation. So I'd like to go into that suggestion. I would also like to look at the various inserts and see if we can entrust anything to the paper for next week's AO. Of course, I would also like to note that I have already sent many letters to the Chamber. These letters are also on the agenda of the general consultation. With this, I can skip my whole introduction, so that's getting along. I think it is wise to look at the various amendments now. But, of course, I can also begin, following Mr Van Weyenberg's remark, by explaining how we can deal with net pensions. For the sake of clarity, I note the following. I also read the letter from STAR, of course. I think it is a good idea for me, together with my colleague in the finance department, to update the Chamber as soon as possible, and for the general discussion, on what we could do about this point of attention. Because, of course, as you said when you welcomed me, we are being decommissioned with all of us. However, there is something on the agenda that the Chamber says: please try to find a solution. That's also wide in the Chamber. I've opened my ears well. So my colleague in the Finance Committee and I are very keen to look into that. Maybe we can't find Columbus' egg in such a short time frame, but at least we can try to take steps forward. So if I can agree to that with the Chamber: follow-up. Okay, that is the answer to Mr Van Weyenberg's question, Mrs Lodders and a number of other spokesmen. I shall then go through the amendments. I conclude that there are actually three amendments on the part of Mrs Lodders (34674, No. 8), by Mr Van Rooijen (34674, No. 9) and by Mr Omtzigt (34674, No. 10) on what we should do with the supervisory boards of occupational pension funds. In fact, I promised in the First Chamber, in response to questions from the CDA, that we would consider whether we could quickly take up these supervisory boards, including company pension funds. I said that the evaluation would take place three years after the introduction of the law. Then we'd start the evaluation. That will be on 1 July and that is also on the roll nicely. I intend to join the Chamber at the beginning of 2018 which will be my successor to the right, I think, because as long as the missionary sitting has become a bit enthusiastic about the evaluation. Then we can do two things together. I would like to advise the Chamber to continue with the supervisory boards in the company pension funds, simply because that is a firm way of supervising those pension funds, where there is a lot of money involved. That's my way of looking at it. I listened very carefully to the Chamber. I can very well imagine that some spokesmen say: we do not think it is wrong to look at whether the visiting committees have done a great job, so that we do not need these supervisory boards at all with these company pension funds, but we only know that in 2018 and then we will see if we would still want to implement supervisory boards. I wouldn't do that. But I have read Mrs Lodder's amendment, as well as Mr Omtzigt's amendment, if I may say so. In fact, they are interlinked. However, I have also spoken with the field of pensions, as it is always so beautifully called, and that is why I have proposed to do it at the moment for the funds above 1 billion. That seems to be a very good direction. The evaluation could then be used to see if you would still want to do it for funds below 1 billion. I would like to go back to Mr Van Rooijen's amendment on what to do with funds in liquidation or otherwise specific. I would like to suggest that these funds should also be brought underneath, because supervision is really a big thing there too. You can be in liquidation for a long time, so I would also like to be right in the line of duty. I shall put it this way as far as supervision is concerned. Again, there are three amendments. It is of course up to your Chamber, but this would be the approach of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u129	I expected this answer a little bit, because it is in line with the current law to proceed with these measures. I am very curious to hear the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State. The evaluation hasn't been done yet. Mr Van Rooijen has just been told that good supervision is needed. Sure, that's what the VVD is for, but that has to be done on the basis of valid arguments. And you can't do that until you've carried out the evaluation. So on the basis of what substantive arguments does the Secretary of State stay with her decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u130	Actually, it's two-fold. Supervision is very important. A supervisory board is, of course, a different phenomenon than a visiting committee. I don't think we have a difference of opinion on that. When the Governance Act was introduced, an obligation on the company pension funds was not yet appropriate, as there were just a very large number of experts needed. Over the past few years, this has been firmly pursued. I have therefore made a commitment in the First Chamber to regulate the supervisory boards only after three years. I do not see any reason to fail to honour that commitment to the Supreme Court. I simply attach great importance to this monitoring and see that there are now more experts than at the time. So as far as that's concerned, it's possible. Look, until the impossible is kept no one, but it is not necessary to wait for the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u131	But then I still don't hear a substantive argument. At the time, I believe that we had a strong debate on the law at the time, and we came to the conclusion that such an external visitation committee would be a good way for the company pension funds to regulate supervision in this way. In the past period some publications have been published about such an external visitation committee. Once again, I am not in favour of one or the other, but I do think that we should base our policy on substantive grounds. These are missing from this explanation by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u132	I also welcome the debate in the First Chamber. There we discussed very fundamentally why we choose one fund for this kind of supervision and another fund for another. At that time I told the First Chamber that the reason was simply very practical that there were still insufficient well qualified supervisory boards in the broad sense of the word. De Nederlandsche Bank has also made a strong contribution in recent years to setting up a supervisory board for these OPFs. I know that Mr Van Weyenberg always looks at the diversity and that's how it should be, but there are enough well-equipped people now. That's why I want to keep that promise to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u133	The Secretary of State refers to the Upper House in response to Mrs Lodders. In conclusion, I would like to quote Mr Hoekstra: exactly that difference between 'that' and 'or' will my group, but I also think other groups, want to get off the table. So he meant with you that after three years, there will be councils of supervision, not "or" but "that" that will come. So I would like to support the Secretary of State's speech here, partly in response to Mr Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u134	I think I have taken three amendments with one stone. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Omtzig on electronic information. I have, of course, also listened carefully to the debate between Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg. I agree with Mr Omtzigt that it is fine to keep relevant information on pensions. I think it is practical in itself that you look at the time of entry into force of the law and that you submit it to those who are going to have to keep it, but I can honestly not fully see what I am asking those who are going to have the retention obligation. I really can't see it right now. I listened to you both very carefully. I do not think it is an unsympathetic amendment at all. In fact, I find it sympathetic and valid, but I am now looking for a way to ensure that I can say yes to this well-founded. I can't do that in a week. Otherwise, I could promise to do it before the votes, because that is a logical moment. I am therefore looking for such a time limit within which I can inform the Chamber and I can still embrace the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u135	I am prepared to table an amended amendment that looks a bit like the previous one, namely that it goes into each AMvB. I can imagine that in three months' time we will hear about whether and what and then there can also be detailed rules in the AMvB. I did that by converting the boards of visitation into the supervisory boards. That is what I will do with this amendment. If we agree here that we aim to make a decision on it shortly after the summer recess and that it will then be communicated by you or your predecessor, then I think we have found a way to understand sufficiently what is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u136	Then I would like to point out for the Acts that the conclave that I and my successor must have with the field will really be properly returned to the Chamber. If it is true, I do not think that there really are bears on roads, then we should be able to exchange it with each other in all sincerity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u137	We can, but then we just make the agreement here that we will be informed whether and, if so, when it can enter. If it turns out there are big bears, we'll hear about it and then we'll have a meeting as a Chamber. It's just about saving sent emails. If it takes more than two months, that's fine, but I don't expect this to cause a major ICT-like problem. I will adapt it as such and I hope that we will come out a little well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u138	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u139	Then we look forward to an amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u140	You'll see about that before Monday, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u141	Good. I come now to the amendment tabled by Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Dijk to item No. 11, which guarantees the bridging pension. I'll just call it high-low. I have the following point of order, which has just been changed in the Chamber. I imagine you're gonna help those sorry people, as they were called here, who retired before 1 January 2016. If they still want to appeal to this, I understand. I understand that the pension field may be a bit complicated about that, but I think it is very defensive towards those people. I read the text of the amendment and followed the debate. In fact, the amendment deals with two things. It arranges something for those regrettants, but there is also a structural component in it. It's a component that runs ahead of the troops. The amendment says that if there is ever an age increase in the AOW where people have not been able to prepare, then you must open this up again. I think that's something that lies in the future and I can't give a spawn or spawn for right now. I would therefore like to leave one part of the amendment to the opinion of the Chamber, but not the other part. That means I'm looking at the proposers now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u142	I would like to ask the Secretary of State a question first. What is her objection to adjusting that degree of variation, which is monitored by the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u143	If you do this widely, if you make it possible for all people to take up the pension more than five years in advance, then that's very nice for the freedom of people, so to speak they can decide to quit at 45 but it means that they have to pay for it themselves. So it's a cigar out of its own box. Then their pension provision will be so millimeterd, that I have concerns about that. If you are going to take up your pension more than five years in advance, you will have less after your AOW pensionable age. That could go up to 40%, so that's pretty heavy. You know, if you have a thicker wallet, you also have other apples for the thirst for after your AOW age, but for people who depend only on a relatively modest pension, I find it complicated. It goes way too far for this collectible law, but I think you should look at the wide range of income benefits for people in the up-to-date age.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u144	The Group of the Party of European Socialists also believes that the government should solve this problem by introducing a proper bridging mechanism. Unfortunately, this has not been done in recent years and has not succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u145	Whoa, whoa, whoa!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u146	This amendment is therefore not intended as an excuse for the government not to solve the problem but to lay it down with people themselves. It is intended as a way to give people who are already taking part in the AOW bridging pension, which I would like to stress, the opportunity to adjust the way in which it is paid, depending on a possible increase in the AOW age. I see no risk that this will allow people to take up their supplementary pension earlier, because they are already in the AOW bridge pension. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u147	But then we're talking about the apology candidates. I have just said that I would like to leave the opinion on that part of the amendment to the Chamber. They are already in their bridge situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u148	The suggestion to the House is to amend that amendment. I understand that there is no need for this on the part of the proposers. It's possible. The amendment will then remain unchanged, as I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u149	I haven't given a judgment on that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u150	Okay. I thought you were going a little that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u151	I have asked a number of questions and I was curious about the substantive objections. If the Secretary of State calls it "sorrowers," I wonder in what part of the amendment she reads something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u152	In the structural component of the amendment, if I may say so. This is not just about people who were already in that bridge situation before 1 July 2016, but also about people in the future. That's how I read the amendment. If I may make a suggestion, it is this: you could cut the amendment in half. Then I can leave the one amendment judgment room. The other amendment must then be discouraged. That's just as practical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u153	I think the SP and the Labour Party are going to take a closer look at the amendment. We are looking for the extent to which this amendment actually extends.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u154	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u155	As I have just said, the first part is about the regrets. In my opinion, there is a widespread feeling in the Chamber that we should do something about this. As for the second part, I'm looking. The amendment does not allow people to stop earlier. It only regulates that you can still use this arrangement if it prevents another hole in the future. That is not the case now, because it is actually a theoretical possibility. But what harm does it do to put this into the law, knowing that it is a limited group, namely the group that is already retired and has bridged it, while we are already looking ahead to a possible situation where there is another gap? That's my quest, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u156	I'm just answering from the present outgoing cabinet, so to speak. We have made a bridging arrangement for people with up to twice the legal minimum wage who were indeed faced with this abrupt increase. With the amendment both proposers now arrange something in case there is another abrupt increase. Now, of course, five years in advance, people are informed whether the AOW age is being increased, yes or no. But imagine there would be another cabinet that suddenly says something different. What if a cabinet like that says, "We're not gonna do that in five years, we're gonna do that in two years." Or: we'll do it in five years but we'll do it in one go with much bigger steps; instead of three months we'll do it in one go with two years, I'll just say what. This is what this amendment wants to cover itself for; that's how you have to read it, isn't it? That's one step too far for me. It's about something that's really in the future. I understand, you know, and it sounds in itself to the people who might be involved, also sympathetic. But it has everything to do with considerations of a cabinet, of a future cabinet. For example, a future cabinet could want to go through the porcelain cabinet very firmly and say: next year we are going to increase the AOW-right age by five years. Well, then there's a point of attention. So that component is just getting too excited right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u157	I want to come to a conclusion. I note that you still want to look at the amendment. You have that freedom. But if the amendment remains unchanged, I note that it is not recommended. So you can come up with a new version and then there will be a new judgment, but the current amendment, in the current version, is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u158	Mr Van Weyenberg and I both asked the authors of the amendment how far the amendment extends. We were also worried that it would open up the possibility of developing behavioural effects and making more use of pre-pension schemes. I understand from the Secretary of State that the amendment concerns only all three of them, which I am in favour of, about policy increases in the AOW age. Then this amendment will work, but it will not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u159	The amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Kent creates a kind of structural arrangement. At least that's how I read it. This will ensure that pensioners who retire more than five years before the AOW age and who may therefore still be confronted with an unexpected increase in the AOW age of three months or more can use their pension to fill that gap. I think that's just too much looking into the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u160	In addition to Mr Snels' question, the following. So it would be people who retire five years in advance. So it could not be just the example that the Secretary of State just mentioned, with a new cabinet. There is now a law with a link to life expectancy. But this amendment could also apply to that group if there is a link when people were not expecting it. Let me get this straight. Or does the Secretary of State not think it is desirable because it is a path that... We continue to try to deepen what this amendment does, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u161	Yeah. Anyway, I think I've clearly expressed what I think is undesirable and desirable. The amendment needs to be puzzled now. If that's the way it's put to the vote, I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u162	You've made a judgment, I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u163	I shall now turn to Amendment No 1, which deals with Amendment No 2. 12. This concerns the obligation to provide information to pension administrators when they apply a spread period of more than five years. In a way, the aim of this amendment is already settled in general terms, but it would be no harm if the participant were explicitly reminded of the potential negative and positive effects of a longer distribution period. So I leave this amendment to the discretion of the Chamber. Then there is another amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt, which concerns item No. 13. This amendment concerns the word 'evens'. There seems to have been a real misunderstanding about that, which I understand. In the collecting law, we had deleted that little word. The pension sector objected to this, as it made it compulsory to limit disclosure to the use of the three scenarios alone. The sector therefore thought that performers should no longer be allowed to show the statutory pension to members, as is currently the case at the UPO. That is a misunderstanding, which, of course, I wanted to take away in a letter of amendment for the sake of the sector. But let me be clear about what I am trying to do, and let me say this very clearly for the Acts. I want to give participants a clear understanding of the risks and purchasing power of their pension, through three scenarios. At the same time, of course, practitioners should also be able to show the nominal pension claims, as is already happening at the UPO. As long as my intention is clear, I would like to leave it to the Court to decide whether or not the word 'evens' is helpful. But I think it is now clear in the Acts that it is about en-en-en.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u164	So you leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u165	I have also addressed this issue in the first term. In my opinion, it is appropriate to include in the explanatory memorandum what it was intended to do in this type of amendment, especially in a collective act. Because it is now only included in the article-by-article explanatory memorandum. That might be a good school for next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u166	Yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u167	It's about "evens."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u168	Yeah, the word "evens." That's it. These were the amendments. I shall now go to the various spokesmen, insofar as they have asked questions concerning the collective law. I'll start with Mrs. Lodders. She asked when the change in the lower regulation related to derivatives and the general pension fund could be expected. It is my intention to implement the amendment of the Pension Act and Compulsory Occupational Pension Scheme Decision this year. I'll let the Chamber know about this. This doesn't have anything to do with the collectible law, but I'll just say it. This proposal extends the maximum distribution period for variable pensions to 10 years. Mrs Lodder's question was how insurers should communicate about this and how participants are involved in the choice of the distribution period. The length of time for which financial and financial coincidences are spread is generally part of the contract with the insurer. An extension of the distribution period will therefore have to be agreed with the participants. If the participant wants to shop to another performer on a retirement date, if I may express myself like this, then the pension administrator should inform the participant about the consequences and risks relevant to him. The duration of the distribution period is reflected in these effects and risks. Mr Van Kent's question was about the merger of occupational pension funds. We have a bill for that in the pipeline. When does that come to the House of Commons? The bill for the summer recess is expected to go to the Council of State for advice. After the summer it can be offered to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u169	I asked whether the entry into force of 1 January would therefore be feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u170	Of course, this is a bit of a question about the familiar path, because that depends very much on the extent to which I or my successor with both Chambers can be in the whole process. If both Chambers say that this must be done very quickly, and I think that there is a mustache, then 1 January 2018 should be possible. Mr Van Rooijen noted that I wrote that as Secretary of State, I find De Nederlandsche Bank's role in a merger or division of pension funds complex. Can we consider whether the legislative proposal could include how to tackle this complexity for the merging sector pension funds? I am indeed considering regulating the role of De Nederlandse Bank in the merger or division of pension funds in the legislative proposal. I told you, this bill is going to the Council of State soon. Mr Van Weyenberg had a question about the openness of recovery plans. He asked what the rights of the participants were with regard to this disclosure. A pension fund shall make available to the participant on its website information on the recovery plan or the updated recovery plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u171	I've learned that in pensions, every word listens closely. The Minister says that a pension fund should "make information available." My question was whether you, as a participant, have the right to see the recovery plan for yourself. So it is not a paragraph that reflects what the fund wants. You want to be able to follow what is in the recovery plan and, by the way, how it is implemented. So I would like to make one point. The answer may come in second term, because I understand that it is precise. I like that you're entitled to information, but I'd like to know if you can just see the play. That's what people are running into right now. A nice promotional alinea of the fund to make you believe in its recovery plan is one, but sometimes you would like to be able to assess the recovery plan yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u172	This is indeed a finishing touch. I shall come back to that in second place. I would also like to hear from Mr Van Weyenberg which participants he has heard are not allowed to see the recovery plan. That does not necessarily have to be done in second term; perhaps we can do it in another way. If he can tell me that, I can actually work with a man and a horse, if you don't mind my saying so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u173	That's fine. These are individual examples that have reached me. I myself may be able to take action towards individual funds and I am always willing to share examples, but I am mainly looking for an answer to the question of what people can claim. I thank the Secretary of State for the offer, but I think it's more important than anything to know what you're entitled to as a participant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u174	I intend to send a letter to the Chamber for the AA, so I'll put it in that letter. I think that's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u175	I am also doing this because I believe that people should not depend on the willingness of, for example, the Secretary of State, however much I appreciate it, to force something through pressure. That's why I find it useful for people to know the legal basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u176	I'll put it in the letter. Mr Omtzigt asked whether the Netherlands is monitoring the bank for information on implementation costs and whether there is a sanction on not publishing. Can I check with De Nederlandsche Bank? Yeah, I'm gonna do that. If I have an answer soon, I will include that answer in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u177	That was the only point on which I actually wanted to table a motion. My question was a little more specific. I did want to know if there was a sanction, but I'll get back to you. I get that. The specific question was about the following. It is currently being published on costs, which is about billions for pension funds, but is it being published correctly and in full? We don't have access to that. I ask the Secretary of State to ask DNB and AFM to take a look at that and do a specific investigation. I'll see if it's going to be a separate report or if it's going to be included in another report. But is the publication sufficient and is its quality sufficient? Or are costs hidden? Maybe the Secretary of State can tell us about that in about nine months. For the Acts: it is about billions of costs that pension funds make. Sometimes they are very necessary, because you have implementation costs, but there are also some doubts. I ask the Secretary of State if she would ask DNB and AFM to investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u178	The answer to that is yes. As Mr Omtzigt says, we will of course not have that back immediately. I too think it is very important that data are correct and complete. If costs are hidden, a participant should be able to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u179	Thank you for the commitment. That means that you will pass the request on to the supervisors and we will hear what they think of it after the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u180	Yes. Mr Van Weyenberg asked a question about the diversity of pension fund management. I sent a letter to the Chamber about that. It is on the agenda for the general discussion, so we will come back to that next week. The same applies to the partner's pension. I've answered some questions in the Chamber. I can imagine that Mr Omtzig is going to comment on this during the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u181	I assume the Secretary of State meant me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u182	Sorry, Mr Van Weyenberg. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u183	It doesn't matter. I asked the questions because I was looking for more action than in these two points. I am also saying this in preparation for the general consultation, because I thought we would get the answers in writing. I hadn't seen the one point about diversity; I'll check it out in a minute. It is about what the conversation with pension funds led to. I compared that to Groundhog Day. I assume that I will be given further information for the general consultation. Despite the answers to the written questions I had asked, I did not ask them again for nothing. From this you can derive something from my enthusiasm for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u184	Good. Just before the finishing touch, I informed the Chamber in April about the actions taken by the Pension Federation in the area of diversity. That letter is now on the agenda. I mention the hand-out, the organisation of a theme day and the provision of best practices. Like Mr Van Weyenberg, I think it is important that diversity within pension fund management is part of the evaluation of the Pension Fund Strengthening Act. We just talked about it. The evaluation, which starts in July, has been promised and must be carried out in the course of the process of handling the law. Mr Omtzigt asked when the Court could expect the assessment of the Settlement of Pension Rights Act in the event of divorce. I can tell you the happy news that I intend to inform the Chamber before the general consultation on the evaluation. I'm still here, aren't I? One of these days you will be given the intermediate position and before the end of the year the complete evaluation including a cabinet position. Mr De Jong asked a question about the re-launch of the variable benefit. Actually, we're talking about the retirement cut. Can I indicate how many people would like to make use of that rematch? I'll check with the Insurance Association. During the general consultation next week I will inform you further when this data is available. To do this, there really needs to be a demand-out from insurers. I can then tell you when that question is available. Additional questions have been asked which do not so much cover the collection law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u185	I have asked a question about the transfer of value at the rematch, namely which insurers are going to cooperate and why this will not be an obligation. If an insurer does not cooperate or is going to offer very strange rates, then you really need an obligation more than an insurer's jurisdiction. If the insurer doesn't offer it, you can't rely on anything. Can we hear that before Monday? Then we can make an obligation of it if necessary. Why doesn't the Secretary of State himself choose an obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u186	That is also what we have had to deal with in the legislative proposal. We also dealt with shopping law at the time. I'd be happy to freshen up our memories when it comes to dealing with the bill on this point. Then Mr Omtzigt himself can decide whether he wants to do something about this before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u187	I'd love to, 'cause I'd love the right to shop. The bill states only the power, and then you are still obliged to stay with your own insurer. And if it offers very bad rates... So if there is another shop right, you will already make me happy, but Mr Van Weyenberg is going to keep all polonaises!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u188	He is also leaving the room immediately to perform that polonaise, I see!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u189	A polonaise, and in a sheet; it is a special debate today! But for the sake of clarity, I just said that we also dealt with the phenomenon of shopping law at the time and that we did not draw any conclusions. All right, Chairman, I think I'm at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u190	Very good. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. At least that is the case with the first speaker, Mrs Lodders. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u191	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying here, and certainly also for the letter promised, in which she comes up with a number of additional information. I hope that we will be able to receive them well before the general consultation on the subject of pensions. One of the commitments it has made is to come up with an adequate solution for the net pension scheme and to inform the Board for General Consultation Pension Issues of 15 June. I had prepared a motion with Mr Van Weyenberg. Given the commitment, I won't file it. The promise stands. I've prepared a second motion on the carve-out. I have not had an answer to my questions about this. That's gonna happen in writing, I think, but I'm gonna file the motion. I'll hold her if I have to. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the application of a carve-out (capital split) may lead to greater support for pensioners and participants, with the carve-out expected to benefit both groups;]] [[noting that a carve-out based on the current Pension Act is theoretically possible, but that it creates a practical blockade for a carve-out, in particular by the provisions of Article 58;]] [[calls on the government, De Nederlandsche Bank, to ask whether it is experiencing the blockage of the carve-out and how it is to be lifted;]] [[also invites the Government to inform the Chamber about this before the summer of 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34674-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u192	I have been able to discuss with the Secretary of State the points I made in the first term. I continue to find it extremely regrettable that there are no substantive arguments on the basis of which an amendment is now being proposed to an obligation to appoint a Supervisory Board for Entrepreneurship Pension Funds, all the more so because I believe that the cost aspect is not sufficiently highlighted. This is to the detriment of pensioners and participants, especially in specific situations. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. We shall see in the votes how other groups feel about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u193	Mr. Chairman. Many of you will have received numerous e-mails, letters and phone calls from people who are dealing with the 65-plus hole. This Secretary of State once created the OBR for this purpose. In my first term, I spent a lot of time on that. I mentioned the amount of 4 million, which was spent on this in 2016, while in 2014, when the scheme was introduced, 83 million was expected to be spent on it. Anyone who takes the trouble to look at the website sees it's some sort of garbage race. At every step in the application procedure, a large proportion of people fall off again. The Secretary of State has understoodably not to address the questions I have asked, but the letter of 2 June speaks volumes in this respect. The Secretary of State says she doesn't want anything and she can't do anything. Because I believe that we must offer a solution to this very quickly and that it really cannot wait, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to extend the bridging regime before the summer recess so that more people can benefit from it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34674-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u194	Mr. Chairman. I assume that Mr Van Weyenberg's comment on a sheet did not mean that 50PLUS would like to be here to make the decisions. But if that's what he meant, then of course I'll understand. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her answers and her response to the amendments, especially the one I have tabled. I have the next motion for a resolution for this debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas adjustment of the internal supervisory pension funds governance model is desirable;]] [[Whereas the completion of the 2013 review of the Visitation Commissions in line with the Governance Act is desirable for this purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to urgently conclude and publish the evaluation of the Visitation Commissions;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the case of new rules for internal supervision, company pension funds and multi-enterprise pension funds in liquidation are adequately protected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34674-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u195	It worked out very well in the timing. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. On diversity, indeed, an answer was already included in the letter which contained other things. That had escaped me; I find it chic to say that here. So I'm going to look at it again. I hope, above all, that we can get rid of the groundhog scenario; that idea is constantly getting to me. I welcome the commitment on net pensions, but I also welcome a letter on this which will lead to a breakthrough, because there has been no lack of intention on this part. Now it's up to you to cover that as well. I am also pleased with the positive basis on the remorseful scheme for early retirement who did not make use of the option before 1 July 2016. I am in favour of this, and I would also like to say to the authors of the amendment. I must confess, however, that the implications of the other part of the amendment are still not clear to me. When it comes to legislation, I do take the line that I always advise my group to vote against if we do not get what it means exactly, because I think that this is too important an instrument for this. I thought Mr Omtzigt had a clever suggestion to buy time around data retention. But if it turns out that it is simply not possible, which I cannot imagine, then of course we are not doing it, but I will understand that with Mr Omtzigt. I believe that we are on the way to a pragmatic solution. And I see Mr Gijs van Dijk standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u196	I would just like to reply to Mr Van Weyenberg's question on the amendment. We shall come back with a clear explanation, which might better underline the clear objective, because we also hope for the support of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u197	Full of anticipation, my heart beats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u198	Mr Snels van GroenLinks waived his second term. I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u199	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the six-minute and 40-second speaking time. That's gonna make it generously. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear answer. I congratulate Mr Van Rooijen on the handy way in which he has talked to get visitors at the next general meeting. He offered in the first term to put a sheet on him, and now he wants to give the sheets. I see a slight difference, but I get the difference. If you're gonna say something, you should be able to come back to it. Mr Van Weyenberg had just left when that was withdrawn; that was very special. I've been away for a while, too, for which I apologize. This has to do with the fact that I took part in the hearing on the Brexit, which I co-organised as rapporteur. So I'm running back and forth between meetings. I thank the Secretary of State once again for the clear answers. I am particularly pleased that on the first point she said to Mr Van Rooijen that DNB has the power to give consent to mergers and divisions. Of course, that's not in this bill yet. I understand you can't do that in two days. I am going to take the amendment to point No. 13 and take a closer look at the word "tevens." I've heard the explanation and it's in the Acts, so I can live a long way with that. It wasn't quite clear to me. Mrs Lodders whispered to me that it was not entirely clear to her in the explanatory statement either. I have a slightly different point with regard to the amendment on the obligation to provide information than I just said to the interrupting microphone. This bill, like all other legislative proposals that have been dealt with in the Chamber in recent years, is the last article to come into force at different times per KB. In the past, in the good old days, a bill came into effect as a whole. Because of that last article I understood myself about this with the legislative lawyers of SZW...................................................................................................................................................................................................... If it is not possible, in line with what Mr Van Weyenberg has said, there is no need for that article to enter into force. I hope, however, that a message will be sent to the Chamber explaining why that would not be necessary, but the government can choose not to allow an article to enter into force. There is, moreover, a long debate among legislative lawyers as to whether this is entirely pure, more can be used here if it really cannot be done or if there is a year to wait because there is a major ICT problem somewhere. Finally, I very much welcome the generous commitment to conduct a thorough study of the reporting of all the costs incurred by a pension fund, both management costs and implementation costs, and whether they are complete and accurate. This is very important in this sector. There's a lot of discussion about that. It is good if the supervisors look at that, rather than having a political discussion on it with all of them. I look forward to receiving the result within a month or nine years, which is what I had said about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u200	Thank you. Mr De Jong has waived his speaking time, which brings us to the end of the second term of office. Can the Secretary of State answer already? That's the case. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u201	Mr. Chairman. I will go, with your permission, to the spokesmen who have contributed in the second term. Mrs. Lodders kicked it off. She said Mr Van Weyenberg said that she was also looking forward to a solution for the net pension scheme next week. That is something we must discuss in general terms. That's totally fine. Mrs Lodders has tabled a motion on the carve-out, if I may put it that way. I think it is good to stress here that the carve-out is a relatively new phenomenon. At the official level, there has been contact with De Nederlandsche Bank. This shows that the carve-out as an idea is still quite unbearable. In addition, their implementation in practice is examined in different ways. The possibility of a carve-out, a collective transfer of value for pensioners only or another subset of a pool of participants involves new policies, in whatever form. So, as Deputy Secretary of State, I cannot embrace this motion in any way. The next cabinet must take steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u202	It's not a new policy, because it's just in the Pension Act. Where the Secretary of State gets that from, I don't know, and frankly, I don't understand either. The motion calls on the government to request information from DNB and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I think that's a very decent request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u203	In the motion, the government is asked to seek advice from De Nederlandse Bank whether they experience the blockage of the carve-out and how it is to be lifted, and to inform the Chamber before the summer. I think that's very excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u204	That seems clear to me, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u205	I get whispered that "before summer" means June 21st. That's my birthday, by the way. Maybe I saw it as a nice present. If time is a problem, it is also good if the Chamber is informed about it somewhere during the summer recess. I'm talking about getting the information from DNB. The moment they experience a blockade, I would like to hear whether they see a solution. If they do not experience a blockade, we also read it in the information. So it's really an information request. If the Secretary of State wants to complete my motion that way, that would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u206	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u207	Of course, I do not want to deny the Chamber any information. Here's what I'm suggesting. I'm gonna write a letter to the Chamber for next week anyway. If I may interpret the motion in such a way as to include in that letter the answer to the question whether DNB can indeed give that information and, if so, at what time he can do so, I can leave this motion to the Chamber of Justice. Perhaps the motion is no longer necessary, because I think it is quite clear that I am asking DNB for the 'or, and if so, when'. Mrs. Lodders also did a sigh. She said it was such a pity that I did not give any substantive arguments as to why the supervisory boards of these occupational pension funds would necessarily be needed now. I did argue that. Firstly, I think that a supervisory board is a more robust supervisory instrument than a visiting committee. Secondly, I promised the First Chamber that after three years we would consider introducing these supervisory boards. That's what I'm doing now. Thirdly, the costs of supervisory boards are not particularly excessive. I understand that they are around €27,000. In the context of what a pension fund has under its care, I think that is, properly said, acceptable. So there are arguments for moving forward and installing supervisory boards now, also because there are now adequate members for supervisory boards to recruit, because that was the point of attention at the time. Then I come to Mr Van Kent, who once again put the 65-plus hole down. That's what he did in his first term. I have been clear in my letter about the OBR and about the fact that I am not going to modify the OBR, because it now meets for people who have up to twice minimum wage to do with that hole. I also have, of course, Mr Van Kent's motion on this point on item No. 16 read. So he won't be surprised that I'm deceiving that motion. It is neat to add the following. If we wanted to do something about the extension of the OBR, I think a very large part of the Chamber would see that as a new policy. Then I come to Mr Van Rooijen, who has the motion in part No. 17 has submitted a motion for a resolution. That motion has the substance of its amendment, at least in a number of parts of its amendment. This motion calls on the government to ensure that company pension funds and multi-enterprise pension funds in liquidation are adequately exempt from the requirement of two who manage more than 1 billion in new rules for internal supervision. I think we should stay straight in the game anyway. If we implement a supervisory board of company pension funds, this should also apply to them. I think that we are being spared, because pension funds with less than 1 billion are not imposing this obligation immediately. I therefore advise against this motion. The government is also called upon to complete and publish the evaluation of the visitation committees without delay. I just said that we're doing nicely as we agreed when we deal with the bill. We will start on July 1st, because then the law will be in force for three years. Then the Chamber can look forward to the review in 2018. That is where this motion is superfluous, I think. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that I do not recommend the motion. Mr Van Weyenberg has not really asked any more questions. Mr Omtzigt, who is in the walkway, said: if the amendment on the obligation to provide information is adopted, it is part of the law, which can then be brought into force by Royal Decree. This in itself is a truth like a cow. Having said that, bearing in mind this thought and bearing in mind what we exchanged in the first term, I could leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. Last but not least: I have promised to report on all costs. I think I have answered all the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-10.u208	Thank you. We'll get a nice letter from you with a lot of information. Tomorrow there will be a 30-member debate on the calculation rate and next week an AO on pension issues. On Tuesday we will vote on this bill, the amendments and the motions. I thank the Secretary of State for being here today.
