ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. A free press is the foundation of freedom in the Western world and oxygen for any democracy. As far as D66 is concerned, we must never accept that this right is being violated. Worldwide, however, freedom of the press is under pressure. This is close to home in Hungary, where critical newspapers are closed down, and in Turkey, where journalists end up in jail. Even in the United States, the government is trying to restrict the free media. This means that we need to work even harder here in the Netherlands for freedom of the press, because it is under pressure here too. A few months ago, research showed that two in three female columnists are constantly dealing with threats. The word "whore" seems to be very popular. That was also written on the house of a journalist who had written critically about Erdogan. Last Friday the report A threatening climate was published, which was commissioned by the Dutch Association of Journalists. The conclusions are very hard to reach. Six out of ten journalists face threats and intimidation. They avoid certain neighborhoods. One out of six reporters will update his messages because of those threats. One in seven dares not publish after threats at all, which is self-censorship. D66 thinks that's a very big problem. In the open democracy that is the Netherlands, this must not happen. Does the Minister agree with me? Does he agree with me that measures should be taken to this end? First of all, I am thinking of a very clear recommendation from the report, namely the recommendation to give journalists the protection of people with a public role. As well as we say, "Don't touch our paramedics," we say, "Don't touch our journalists." These clear national agreements on aggression and violence against workers should therefore apply to journalists. Does the Minister agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Paternotte referred to Mr Brenninkmeijer's and Mrs Odekerken's investigation into the increasing number of threats to journalists, which made them feel limited in the exercise of their work, as they themselves pointed out. I very much agree with Mr Paternotte that this is unacceptable and very serious. The report provides a number of solutions. One of these points towards the employers or clients of the journalists themselves. For example, more training is required. Another direction of solution is in the direction of government. That is what Mr Paternotte's question focuses on: can the rules introduced a few years ago for people with a public service also apply to journalists? For people with a public task, a number of years ago, we indeed introduced that the Public Prosecutor's Office is setting up standard prosecution, can demand up to 200% more punishment and try to achieve standard damages. We didn't do that for nothing. When people like policemen, firefighters, paramedics or sisters do difficult and dangerous work on our behalf, you certainly shouldn't get into a situation where you even point your fingers at them. I already indicated last week that I consider it important to discuss the recommendation in the report with the Public Prosecutor. I understand that the Dutch Association of Journalists is doing the same. I understand the wish, it is indeed an important subject, but you come across a number of practical questions. Journalists come in all kinds and sizes. They are much less employed than agents or paramedics. We don't know the "agent/zzp'er." Besides zzp'ers, the term "journalist" is not protected either. You and I can measure the title "journalist" tomorrow; well, I'm a little harder than you, I think. So before you go into action, you need to map out more precisely what works and helps. That is happening at the moment and I am happy to inform the Chamber of the outcome of that consultation between the Public Prosecutor and the journalists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is good that the Minister underlines how important this is and that he sees this as a threat to our legal order. The reason why we mention the recommendation made in the report is quite clear: there are journalists who report, but most journalists do not do so at all. The willingness to report is very low. That is a good explanation: when journalists report, they get no response in most cases, and in most cases there is no prosecution. In both cases, this represents two thirds of the total number. Can the Minister understand that if, in most cases, they do not receive a response and if the declaration does not usually lead to prosecution, and that, apart from the protection of the profession, it is, in any case, desirable that when a journalist makes a threat report, lik-op-document policy is pursued, prosecuted and made clear what is being done with the report, so that the declaration can go up? Can the Minister ask the police and the D.A. to promise that they will work on reports by journalists? This is not the first report on the safety of journalists. That situation is changing all over the world. In many countries, freedom of the press is under pressure. As far as we are concerned, the Netherlands must take the lead in protecting it and we must show that we are also a free port in the world on this issue. Does the Minister agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	I can't stress enough how important it is to press charges. I'm also really calling on journalists to press charges. I find it worrying that this is happening relatively little. I have not been able to read very clearly whether this is the Dutch situation, because the report is also about abroad, the global picture of Dutch journalists who are or are not reporting. In any case, I find it worrying for the Netherlands if no report is made and I really call on journalists to do so. I understand the connection made by Mr Paternotte with the follow-up to this. I have already indicated that, on the basis of the consultation between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Dutch Association of Journalists, I would like to take a serious look at this, because I am faced with a number of practical problems that have just been mentioned. Those problems are no reason for me to say that we are not doing anything, but we need to frame this properly, so that you do not just say "journalist," but have really clear who exactly you want to offer the protection that indeed belongs to this very important task in an open society. As far as the international role of the Netherlands is concerned: the terrible abduction in Colombia, which fortunately ended well, again this week showed that the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs is very committed to this point and that it is really part of our policy to emphasise the importance of freedom of the press outside the Netherlands. Indeed, democracy and the rule of law can only function if people, even if it is dangerous, want to report on what is happening in a country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	You ready, Mr. Paternotte? Thank you. Mr Van Nispen of the SP has another question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	When threats against journalists increase, we run the risk of journalists breaking off their reports, not having the courage to publish them and not being able to reveal them anymore. That's what's gonna happen. That's what we read in the report. Journalists are indeed extremely important in our rule of law. It is precisely these revelations that must continue to be made. So there is only one answer to threats: to tackle them consistently. That is not happening at the moment. What's the Minister gonna do to stand next to those journalists to get those bad guys to take care of? Is he also willing to release sufficient capacity to the police and prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr Van Nispen is actually asking the same question as Mr Paternotte, but I will be happy to answer it. There is no difference of opinion on the importance of journalists' work and the fact that threat is unacceptable. I have also indicated that I am pleased that the Public Prosecutor's Office, for which I am ultimately politically responsible, is consulting on this matter with the Dutch Association of Journalists. However, I also think it is logical that, before I can take action, I first have to answer a number of practical questions because of the problems I have outlined and which we must clearly identify. A cop is really something easier to recognize than a journalist, both legally and in practical terms. I have already indicated that we are working on this and that I will inform the Chamber of the outcome of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	That's what I'm interested in. I also heard the minister say he's looking for what works and what helps. For that letter, it is important to identify what is actually happening now when a journalist reports a threat. Is he known as a journalist? Is that gonna be noted? Does that lead to a certain treatment or not? I am also asking for this because this discussion has been going on a little longer. Reports have already been issued in 2005 and 2009. I would find it interesting if the letter provided information on this too, so that it could be discussed in the Chamber in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	That is a fair question from Mr Van Oosten. He points out that in a report, you should also be able to mark someone threatened in his position as a journalist. Somehow it has to be made known that someone does this professionally. I think this is an important point and will certainly take it into account in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you.
