ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u1	I reopen the General Financial Reviews and the handling of the Tax Plan 2018 package for a short third term. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mr De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Chamber for the leave to hold a short third term. Apologies to the rulers for interrupting their busy activities. It's about the Ester c.s. motion. on the marginal tax burden. It is surprising in itself that I am asking for reopening on behalf of my group, because the motion has been co-signed by my group. That means that we fully agree with the content of the motion. There can't be a discussion about that. But it is well known that the VVD Group has the steady line not to vote for unnecessary motions. In the opinion of the VVD, motions become superfluous if what the motion requires has been promised by the rulers. We in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have been given the impression that what the motion requires has been promised. But the motion hasn't been withdrawn. Apparently, therefore, there is still not enough clarity as to whether the motion pronounces something that the government has not promised. Hence my question to the directors whether they want to state explicitly whether they want to commit to what is requested in the motion. My group will then be able to consider whether it is voting in favour of the motion because of its content or against the motion because it is superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr. De Grave. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in a third term? That is not the case. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I realize that I was more explicit on the first part of the motion last week at about ten to twelve than on the second part of the motion. Maybe I can take it up again briefly to clarify that too. I would like to say straight away that my answer will not differ substantially, not even from the one I gave last week. First of all, it is important to remember that in the case of marginal pressure it is very important that you look at everything in conjunction. I believe that this was also the conclusion that many people have drawn in the debate on income policy. We've had a pretty long talk about the marginal pressure. The marginal pressure is a result of many different elements of our system. I won't take that back here. The motion calls for two things. We know that SZW reports to budgets on income policy. It also reports on incentives for entry into work, on poverty traps and, limited, on marginal pressures. Last week I also indicated to Mr Ester and the rest of the Chamber that we can still adapt this report to Mr Ester's wishes. In my view, this also meets the first part of the motion. But, as I say in particular to Mr De Grave, I have already made that commitment. In my opinion, more implicit is the second part of the motion. Mr Schalk and I had an exchange of views on what else you could do. At that time, I think we found each other in the report of the Planning Bureau which is still coming and in the agreement to have contact, as a cabinet, with the parties who consider it desirable, probably in the first place the Lower House of the SGP, with regard to what new material will give us some thought. That's how I like to put it, I think. Mr Ester's second request goes a little in the same direction, because he is asking to see how the extremes can be countered in marginal pressure. Actually, we already know where they came from. Last year, the research Marginal pressure in income policy was also sent to the Chambers. The options presented therein are partly already enshrined in the coalition agreement. I have interpreted the motion itself in such a way that it does not make much sense to report annually on that second point, because I am actually telling the Chamber what has already been shared with the Chamber, and that I can implement it with that interpretation, which is generally quite strict on my part and which takes the motion quite literally. In essence, that is also a commitment. So I cannot completely rid Mr De Grave of his dilemma, because how the VVD Group deals with motions in which the cabinet leaves the judgment to the Chamber is up to the VVD. Mr President, I hope I did not add to the chaos. But here's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u6	Thank you. Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. By the way, you were very sharp a week ago, even at that late hour. Let me underline that. It was also a pleasant debate. The marginal pressure has been intensively discussed in this House, particularly in relation to the gap between the statutory minimum wage and the modality and the groups for which Mr Schalk has been committed. In doing so, the interpretation and justice of such a high marginal pressure are at stake. The purpose of the motion is to institutionalise the debate, to bring it back every year. I very much appreciate your commitment on the first point, namely to report annually to the Prince's Daypieces. We think that's very good. But, of course, we are interested in what the planned policy will do to reduce marginal pressure. That is why we ask that this be institutionalised, to pay attention to this every year. We're not asking any more questions. We're not asking any less. If there are no important things to report, we'll see it again. But that is also the subject of an in-depth debate. I should therefore like to ask you, Mr President, to say 'enticing', but that is not a proper term for agreeing on that second part of the motion in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u8	Are there any other Members who would like to speak? That is not the case. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. With due regard for the constitutional responsibilities that lie with the First Chamber and the Cabinet, I would nevertheless like to suggest to Mr Ester that he hold the motion, at least until after the report has been published and after that discussion. Otherwise, we're really gonna do things in the wrong order. So with the interpretation that I have just given, in conjunction with the dialogue we have had, I might even say that Mr Schalk and I have had, I would really like to buy some time. Whether or not we have unraveled the gordian knot entirely to the satisfaction of Mr De Grave, I cannot yet see. But that would be my proposal for the tightening up that Mr Ester is doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u10	Pretend you're at the interrupting microphone, Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u11	I very much appreciate the Minister's response, but these are more groups than just one earners and two earners. Let me stress that. This marginal pressure is also about very different income groups in the spectrum. So I see the conversation between you and our friends of the SGP, which I very much welcome, wider than that subject alone. It's about more. The request is to give a brief reflection every year on what the cabinet intends to do on the broad issue of marginal pressure that year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u12	In itself, I'd like to agree to that. I believe that this has been the line of the debate. I would just like to make two comments on the danger of repeating myself. I think we should have the report before we set the final course, and then have the dialogue to determine what the implications are. Another way, I guess, wouldn't be clean. That's one. Two is, perhaps in abundance, my interpretation of the second part of the motion. If Mr Ester agrees, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then it is up to the political groups to then assess whether the fact that the cabinet leaves the judgment to the Chamber is an encouragement to be in favour or an encouragement to be against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u13	I see it mainly as an encouragement; you will understand that. So I'd like to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-8.u14	That's obvious.
