ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, Deputy Prime Minister to questions, first-term questions. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u2	The next item is the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate, part of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. A very warm welcome to the Minister. It's your term. It's your turn. You have five cubes. Maybe it's good to share that with the members. The Minister starts with an introduction. Then follow: agriculture, nature, food quality and region. Then you know what you have to take into account. I would suggest that we allow five interruptions per group. Let us make an effort to allow the Minister to make her introduction somewhat undisturbed, so that we have a good start. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, members of the Committee on Agriculture, Nature and Food. I have heard that committee has been re-established. It is an honor to stand here as Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. Agriculture, nature and food quality are three themes that sometimes seem to be in conflict, but I believe that all three points have a future in balance and in conjunction with each other. At the same time, much is coming towards us: climate goals, the growing world population and thus also the call for sufficient sustainable and safe food, but also increasing competition from other countries and our nature, which must continue to flourish but is also under pressure. In the coming years, we, the Cabinet, the Chamber and, indeed, the whole of society, will often talk to each other about dilemmas, differences and contradictions. I hope that we remember in all these conversations that there does not have to be any difference and that sometimes there are also false dilemmas. Nature and farmers are often confronted. But my belief is that a farmer can't live without nature. If you consider that the majority of the Netherlands consists of agricultural land, nature cannot do without the farmer. We all have an interest in a strong agricultural sector, safe and reliable food, a rich nature and a vital countryside. So we all have a responsibility, too. We have them as a cabinet, you as a Chamber, as a government, as a company, as an organization, as a consumer. We need to change together, and we need to improve together. In my introduction, I would like to address the issues of 'fair and responsible agriculture', 'working together on nature', 'food for all' and'region and vital rural areas'. First of all, agriculture. Mrs Ouwehand started with a Chinese text, I believe. I think she indicated that she had previously used a Bible text, but that had not gone so well. I found a text that I thought was appropriate to the subject of agriculture. I'd like to recite it. "The advantage of the earth is for all of us. The king is even served from the field." The Bible-proof people among us will undoubtedly hear that this is from Ecclesiastes 5:8. I think it's a very nice statement. It has a number of elements which also apply to agriculture. We can all enjoy the proceeds of the country. But also the king is served by the land, not the land in the meaning of the people, but the yield of the land. So even the king depends on what happens there. We all depend on what happens in agriculture, on how much food is produced but also on how it is produced. In addition, we depend on circumstances such as the weather. Those two elements, it's for all of us, but we're also depending on.............................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. In agriculture, I have an eye for both the economic and social importance of agriculture. The value of the agricultural product exceeds the market value. More than half of the Netherlands consists of agricultural land. Our farmers, fishermen, farmers and horticulturalists literally shape our land and our sea. They share a responsibility to ensure that the earth and the sea, of which we reap the fruits, is not exhausted. In some circles, we call that "Rent Mastery." In general, we call this "the earth to pass on beautifully to the generations to come." I will work on that responsibility, but I will also address it to the sector if necessary. Recently I was at a farm in Friesland, with a dairy farmer. He had taken over the company from his parents. He had 200 head of cattle, but he also had an eye for nature. He was involved in nature-inclusive agriculture and innovation. I met his parents and the benjamins of the family on that farm. That already indicates that a farm is more than just a business. It's often something of the whole family. But he also got a good price for his product. He told me that he realized that and that he was grateful for it, because it wasn't always obvious. The agricultural sector is under pressure. Consumers want a high-quality, competitively priced product that is always available in the shop and is also happy to be produced sustainably. There's a price for that, too. Farmers want to be free to do so and they want their children to do so one day, but the large number of rules oppress them. They stand up for day and day to make beautiful products with heart and soul, but they often get too low a price. The people who are so important to our well-being and prosperity must be able to earn a fair living. The value of food and the dignity of the people who make it must be brought closer together. I know the sector is very diverse. Agriculture alone consists of many farmers, farmers and growers, and small and large farms. But they have one common denominator: 90% are family businesses. That is why I was glad to announce last week that there will be a young farmer's fund. I aim to ensure that the fund will be operational in the first half of 2018. EUR 75 million will be spent on future generations. That money is spent on making acquisitions easier, investing in innovation, i.e. strengthening the healthy sense of farming with modern high-tech. Innovation is also important for fishermen. Take the flagship of innovation and durability, the pulse kor. This is the subject of heated discussions in Brussels. The temperature of the discussions will rise even higher with the forthcoming Brexit. Debates on questions like "Who owns the North Sea?', "Where can our fishermen come?" And "how much can they fish?" are complex because seas in several countries have a coastline. For agriculture in the Netherlands, the European common agricultural policy is of course of great importance. Their frameworks will be re-established in the coming years. The European Commission presented its communication on this matter last Wednesday. Fortunately, I already see many points of departure for the matters I have just mentioned. That is why I am pleased that I am able to represent our interests in Brussels, but also here in The Hague at the Council of Ministers and figuratively in Paris, given the climate goals to which the agricultural sector is also contributing. I am glad to be the link between Brussels, Paris, The Hague and Warstiens, Renswoude and IJmuiden in the field of agriculture. From these kinds of locations food is produced that is consumed all over the world. The Netherlands is the world's second agricultural exporter. An increasing share of exports consists of knowledge and innovation. For example, it allows farmers throughout the world to grow enough and safe food within the ecological and social boundaries. The Netherlands thus contributes to solutions to the world food issue. Collaboration is also central to my second main line, nature. Our nature is indispensable for health, climate, water management and quality of life. Think of the Wadden, the Veluwe, the dunes and the various national parks. The Dutch delta is a hub of international importance. For millions of birds, our delta is an indispensable link. Nature is part of our identity and we must cherish and protect it. This requires a responsible and innovative handling of our natural capital. Governments, companies, financial institutions and consumers are increasingly aware that careful handling of our nature is crucial for a healthy living environment and our economy. On the basis of the Nature Pact, the provinces work until 2027 to expand the Nature Network Netherlands with 80,000 hectares of new nature. And take the recent statement by Driebergen, to which many of you referred yesterday. Science, the agricultural sector and nature organisations have decided together to take care of declining biodiversity and not to wait for the government. In fact, the government wasn't involved in those conversations at all. I think this is a good initiative between parties who certainly do not speak to each other on a daily basis. Hail to those who had the guts to take the lead. Which brings me to my third main line: food for everyone. The world population is growing and is demanding ever more safe and sustainable food. Unfortunately, we do not get an extra soil to provide sufficient and nutritious food. This issue also requires balance, to feed the same earth with many more mouths. The Netherlands can mean a lot in this, because we have highly developed agricultural knowledge. All over the world there are alumni from Wageningen University & Research. Everywhere smart techniques find eager deduction, such as energy-generating greenhouses and milking robots. Four Dutch companies are currently thinking about creating hundreds of thousands of hectares of agricultural land in the Egyptian desert. So they literally help create an oasis in the desert. Feeding the world also begins at our home. Still, kids grow up without enough nutritious food. There is often little fresh fruit and vegetables available at the Food Bank, while at the same time we are wasting a lot of food. That is a poignant contradiction. I would also like to reduce this contradiction, because there is still a great deal to be gained in this area, as I saw last week at the waste disposal plant in Veghel, where food waste is being avoided by making high-quality other products. Let's go back to the real value of food. I'm going to work for safe, sustainable, healthy and delicious food for everyone, produced in a sustainable way. Sustainability simply means that it is made in such a way that we do not exhaust the sources from which it is exploited. Mr. Chairman. Then the region. The cabinet has appealing ambitions for the cooperation between the Empire and the region. I welcome the great energy I already see in the regions to work together with the Empire on regional challenges. As far as I am concerned, the slogan is that The Hague will not decide what is good for the region, but that the region will show The Hague what it still needs. Sustainability means, in summary, that we deal with our agricultural sector, our nature and our food in such a way that our children and grandchildren have no less than us, but more; more nature, enough and healthy food for everyone, a sector that gets a good price for hard and honest work. We want to work to ensure that the coming generations can be proud of us. That will require difficult choices, as well as tough discussions, but let us now begin with this budget debate. Mr. Chairman. I think it is time to move on to the specific answer to the questions put to me by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u4	There is a question from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u5	Yes, Mr President, because such a fine introduction also calls for recognition of the Chamber, so thank you for that. Here's what I want to ask the Minister. Her story speaks to everyone, I think. There are several parties here in the Chamber and they all think: yes, that's right, farmers need to earn more, the value of food and the dignity of the people who produce it must come closer together. I really liked the Minister saying that. And agriculture must take place within the limits of ecosystems, of what the planet has to offer us. I hear that the VVD thinks "so highly efficient" while other parties think that we should get rid of high meat production, the use of poison, the use of fertilizers. I would ask the Minister to be specific about this dilemma. Because if we don't make the choices that need to be made, we're gonna stay opposite each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u6	Whether we stand up to each other is also up to ourselves and the attitude we adopt. If we want to make the big choices of our time, we must start talking to each other, but we must also dare to listen to each other. I hope you have heard that I have just tried to indicate that. Then we should not just attack these kinds of dilemmas in black and white from our own shooter's pit. So that is also a question back to Mrs Ouwehand, to indeed bridge that bridge to other ways of producing than that which she may be in favour of. In fact, I think that Mrs Ouwehand's question might also be a little bit of a false dilemma, namely that high-efficiency production is immediately bad for all kinds of environmental issues. Unfortunately, I also know more small-scale farming and farming which is not very sustainable and which is not very good for nature. So we can very often create a kind of image of "this is bad and that is good." I have only been Minister for six weeks, but I can tell you that in those six weeks I have seen more dilemmas than I had ever thought possible. But that also challenges me to consider how we can ensure, within all these different types of agriculture, that we do respect the rules we agree with each other. I am thinking, for example, of ecological framework conditions, but not just of the forms that are chosen at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u7	I very much agree with the Minister, but I do think that the choices that need to be made should be made in this period. And then I ask this Minister that I also ask in my first term whether we see food primarily as a human right or as a commodity. 'Cause there's so much in it already. There are huge discussions about which form of agriculture is the best and there are stacks of reports. There is one human rights perspective, from the UN rapporteur for the right to food. That rapporteur looked at all that research. He comes to the conclusion that, if we want to feed everyone within the limits of this planet, the high consumption of meat in the rich West must be substantially reduced, that intensive agriculture is not the answer in the long term and that we need to move more towards an agriculture that is not so dependent on an external input of poison, fertilizer, you name it. Is that a guide for this minister to the way she's going to look at all these dilemmas or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mrs Ouwehand started with the question of whether food is a human right or a commodity. I would almost say that it is perhaps a commodity for some farmers and therefore a human right for others. There are so many mouths to feed in this world. Fortunately, we have developed a lot of techniques that allow us to produce a lot with our small country. This is incredibly innovative ways. I have already seen examples of precision farming that really impress me. These innovations can help to increase production, which does not have to be at the expense of our environmental conditions. I think we should look for this balance: how can we also contribute to the feeding of the world with our knowledge, skills and techniques, while at the same time constantly challenging ourselves to do so with respect for our environment and our nature? That's not always easy. I know. But I think that's the quest we should go on together. I would like to see the knowledge and skills that we ourselves have become much wider in this regard. I made that clear in my introduction. So this is not just about producing products, but about using our knowledge and so on so that we can do even more for the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u9	Mrs Ouwehand, I have just indicated that I intend to allow five interruptions per group, in two. The Minister's answers are quite comprehensive and comprehensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u10	I'm gonna stand down for now, but you're gonna see me in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u11	I'll just pick it up, because I think it's an interesting discussion. I think the Minister is right to point out that there is a false contradiction between good, sustainable agriculture and innovative agriculture. If we really want very sustainable agriculture, we need a lot more innovation and we certainly shouldn't go back to ot-en-sien farms or whatever. But I would like to challenge the Minister to go a little bit more into the next question. In Dutch agriculture, production per hectare is already about the highest we know in the world. Based on our analyses of biodiversity loss, we know that there are considerable bottlenecks there. Does the Minister agree that the first challenge for Dutch agriculture should not be to achieve a further increase in production, but to really focus innovation on balancing Dutch agriculture with climate and biodiversity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u12	I was just telling you about the farmer in Friesland where I've been. This farmer is not a small farmer. He has 200 head of cattle; that is not small. But that farmer was very special in the sense that he had an eye for biodiversity. By the way, there are more farmers who have that, but he was specifically working on it. He gave his vision of agriculture: I can earn a good living, but I need a certain scale for that; at the same time I make sure that all kinds of plants and herbs grow in the meadow, which is good for biodiversity, but also for my cows. He had also put it in his food and he saw that this strengthened his animals. I think that perhaps we are looking too closely at agriculture from certain perspectives, because that farmer was able to reconcile these worlds very well. That's what I'm talking about. In my opinion, the challenge for the coming period is to bring things back to balance. In addition, it is not the case that your company must necessarily have a certain size or that you should make a certain choice. The choice is in particular: can we combine things? That's, I think, the search that we have to go on with each other over the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u13	This is a rather complex answer. I'm trying to understand. I think the Minister actually agrees with me. It is primarily about balancing things; it is not primarily about achieving an even higher production. The Minister outlined an example. I also know examples of very innovative, very modern and certainly not too small-scale companies. The art of these agricultural entrepreneurs has been that they have seen an opportunity to broaden their focus on "how do I get the best out of production?" "How can I balance my production with nature and biodiversity in a good way and get a good earning model?" I think that is the real, powerful entrepreneurs, who often also deserve a decent living. Does the Minister agree with me that that should be the direction, and that means that we should get rid of that narrow approach to production efficiency: the more per hectare, the better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u14	I keep trying to explain. That farmer's producing quite a lot. That farmer is not a small farmer and is also busy to see how he can maintain his production. Only, he can do it in such a way that he combines it with other values he cares about. I think that we in the Chamber should be honest about that. They're not always opposites. It is much more about the way we look at things, where we also try to achieve social goals, for example. This is also an important part of the debate on the common agricultural policy. We work that way, but it's not like you're necessarily abandoning the production. That suggestion seems to be in Mr Grashoff's mind, and that is what I am trying to bring together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u15	We may have to discuss this at another time, but that is not exactly what I am trying to make clear. I think we're pretty close to each other in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u16	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u17	The Minister continues her speech. It starts now.. if it is okay.. with the subject of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u18	That's right. Mr. Chairman. I have just said that I have an eye for both the economic and social importance of agriculture. My ambition is to produce agriculture that preserves competitiveness and respects people, animals, nature and the environment. Agriculture faces the major challenge of contributing to the transition to circular agriculture and a circular economy, delivering high-quality sustainable products and using energy and raw materials in a sustainable way. The focus on public health, ecology, soil and animal welfare should be an integral part of this transition. This applies both to the crop sector and to the animal sector. In field and horticulture, there are challenges in the field of plant health, greening of plant protection and climate change. When it comes to plant health, the cabinet strongly supports a system approach. The order is: prevention, biological control and, as a final step, the use of plant protection products. It is safe for people and the environment. The greenhouse horticulture has shown great progress with energy saving. We are therefore fully committed to climate change in this area. In livestock farming, the question is how to speed up sustainability. The whole chain, including the consumer, is at hand here. You can't always sit in front of a dime in the first grade. Farmers deserve a fair price for the sustainable production of our food. There is also a responsibility for the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr De Groot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u20	The minister was talking about plant protection. Yesterday, I set out some kind of ethical principle: why should we use pesticides made up of chemicals only if there are effective and environmentally safe biological agents? I can also hear the Minister repeat that order: first biological agents and, if there is no other alternative, chemistry. Now it is sometimes the case that there are perfect biological resources, but that there is chemistry on the market, after which the biological resources disappear. What's the Minister's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u21	I think it is particularly important that I also hear that the authorisation of biological products, for example, can be speeded up. It's not always the case that those products are already there. They are sometimes in development and therefore still need to be admitted to the market. I would like to make an effort to speed that up, for example. I also speak to many farmers who say: 'I still need the chemicals. But it's not like I'm gonna start with that. Before I start, I'm going to take a lot of other steps, just to prevent me from getting to those chemicals." To rule out these resources altogether now would go too far at this time. That is why, of course, the authorisation of turnips is still regulated for a number of years. I also indicated earlier in the debate that I do have the ambition to improve precisely those steps that lie ahead. I believe that there is an opportunity to say to the farmers themselves that there is an alternative. If that's enough, you can also take other steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u22	I fully agree with this reasoning. Very good. I appreciate the Minister's commitment to this, but sometimes it's the other way around. I would like to give a very specific example, which I would like to read out. Fruit moth was mainly combated in the 1990s and early 2000s with the use of the baculovirus and in about 60% of the area combined with a fruit moth pheromone. As of 2012, new resources have been authorised, namely Affirm and Coragen. In one year, the market for the biological alternative disappeared. In other words, there was a biological alternative, which is effective enough. Then a chemical was allowed on the market and then there was actually rowing back. That's the situation I'm describing. I have more of these examples. What is the Minister going to do in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u23	It is a question of whether the product that is authorised is safe for people and the environment. That is also being tested. The Authority will look into this. That is also the scientific test we are looking at. If we do not do that, it will be very complicated to decide which means we will or will not allow. But I think we are also just looking at developments in plant protection products. I didn't know this particular case. We all need to see what we can do with this, with the sector involved. What are the options for alternatives? I would like to do much more in this area, for example, in the area of prevention. I think there's a whole world out there too. More steps need to be taken in this area. I'm gonna have those conversations with the sector, too, to see how we can get on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u24	But that could mean that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u25	No, no, you're gonna try to do all the interruptions in threes. So I'm gonna be as strict as you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u26	I would like to point out that, if it is allowed, it has, of course, been tested on safety for people and the environment. That is the framework in which we are going to assess things. We are therefore looking at what more we can do, for example, in the area of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u27	I'm gonna go back to this point. It is, of course, important that the manufacturer is ultimately the one who keeps a biological or chemical substance on the market. My point is about the system approach. We've been working in plant protection in this way for years. I have just heard the Minister say that she also wants to offer space in the steps ahead of even the biological resources. Well, that's convenient! I have another motion on the previous sowing of catch crops, for example. Catch crops now have to wait until 15 July, but at an early harvest of tulipland, for example, you could use a crop much earlier and then have it done as a biological eel fighter. This is a specific example. The Minister doesn't have to go into that. How does the Minister look at the possibility of providing this kind of space in the laws and regulations, so that the farmer and gardener do not have to deal with that final medicine cabinet that is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u28	If there are other possibilities, we always look at them. I know that there are other discussions behind this particular example. We have just had a whole AO on the action programme on the Nitrates Directive. So there are a lot of dilemmas in that, which you should also look at in conjunction with each other. But we are always prepared to look at alternatives if they also serve the objective we are aiming for, within the framework conditions that we must also apply elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u29	I think there's a lot of opportunities there. We need to identify the obstacles and how rules can perhaps be given a little more scope, so that we can minimise the use of biological, but certainly chemical, substances. I think that the sector should be at the top of the line there. The medicine cabinet that we ourselves need as human beings, of course, we also need for the plants. I'm glad this minister confirms that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u30	I am always prepared to enter into discussions on this point in order to see what improvement is possible within the framework conditions that we also set elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u31	I also come to the issue of plant protection. I am pleased to hear that the Minister really wants to focus on reducing the use of chemical plant protection products, including the well-known arthropods. This is also apparent from the Minister's written reply. But I'd like to ask her if she can concreteize this. This does not need to be done on the spot, but it could, so to speak, promise to send us another good letter on this matter. If we want to do that, it is of course very important that we also know what we are doing, what resources we are talking about and what goals we are setting ourselves with regard to reducing use. What deadlines does the Minister have in mind? What's feasible? What means, in terms of money, regulation and so on, should we use? In what way can we monitor the results? I would say that these are the normal ingredients of a plan of approach or a policy note. Would the Minister be prepared to forward this to the Chamber at a reasonable time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u32	I want to focus on what steps we can now take in practice. It has a bit of the atmosphere of: we're going to take care of this in one go; we're going to make sure that we don't need chemical plant protection products anymore. I refer, for example, to the debate on satsumas. Five years have now been allocated. At that time, I would like to see what further steps we can take in the sector. But if I'm going to say "this is the goal and we're going to make it all right in that period," then I'm going to anticipate innovations that may not be there at all. Mr Grashoff has heard from me what the commitment is. I just want to get to work on that. But I am not going to put a whole plan of action on that right now, because I want to look with the sector at how we can perhaps make better use of the innovations that are already there. Mrs Lodders indicated that there might be opportunities there. At the same time, I would like to hear which alternatives are still being considered. We are talking about alternatives which may not yet be on the market, but which we must speed up. That's a process I'm going into right now. I am not going to anticipate when all this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u33	Too bad. I think it might not be a very sensible choice for the Minister himself either, because we will always continue to discuss the questions: where were we, where are we and where are we going? It's like that everywhere. I would remind the Minister that one of the successful agricultural transition programmes was to reduce the use of antibiotics. This was based on a very concrete plan with very concrete objectives, with percentages. The question was: in how many years would you want to achieve what goal? You may then find that you have achieved only 90% of your goals, but at least you know that you have achieved them. I'd be happy to give the Minister time to work with the sector on what it is. But if you don't define anything and don't plant anything, then we're gonna have, I'm afraid, a persistent discussion that's not gonna get us anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u34	I cannot escape the impression that I will continue to discuss this subject with Mr Grashoff in the coming years. He can therefore continue to question me about the efforts that are being made in this area. I'm picking up that glove. I'm gonna work on that, along with the sector. That is what we are going to do and not on the basis of all kinds of big plans, timetables and things like that. He can keep me on his endeavors. There is no doubt that we will be discussing this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u35	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr. Chairman. I ended up at the fair price for farmers. As I said before, farmers deserve a fair price for the sustainable production of our food. The SP has asked whether a fair price for farmers does not include some sort of agricultural agreement, so that the whole chain participates. The agricultural agreement is a point of the PvdA, but I understood that Mr Futselaar thinks that we should draw up an agricultural agreement in my own words or a chain agreement or whatever. I think it is important that farmers get a fair price for producing our food. Efforts in the area of sustainability should also be reflected in the price paid by farmers. Agriculture itself also has a responsibility in terms of sustainable development and climate. I strongly encourage parties in the chain to agree on this. They can do it themselves. These agreements must be sufficiently ambitious and comply with the competition framework. To this end, the legislative proposal on sustainability initiatives will open up in the future. That bill's gonna be dealt with. By the way, it is up to you whether that is going to be dealt with, but I assume it will be dealt with. I invite the parties to explore in the near future how this could be further developed. Farmers need to join forces and work together in the chain more than they do now. My responsibility in this respect is to help find ways of shaping cooperation. The CDA indicated that a food separator should address the unfair commercial practices and distorted market power in the food chain and ensure that farmers and gardeners receive higher prices from customers who impose super-statutory requirements. I agree with Mr Geurts. The government agreement states that the Authority Consumer and Market, the ACM, will ensure that farmers and gardeners receive higher prices from customers who impose super-statutory requirements, for example as regards sustainability or animal welfare. In addition, the cabinet wants a special team to join the ACM that tackles alleged unfair commercial practices and distorted market power. In this context, it will also be explored whether the ACM should, if necessary, be given additional specific powers in relation to disputes relating to the Code of Conduct for Fair Commercial Practices. In this way we are trying to tackle the position of the farmer in the chain. We are working hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u37	As a result, I have the following question. In a number of countries around us there is a ban on reselling at a price lower than the purchase price. In Belgium and France, for example, this has often been done specifically for agriculture. In my contribution, I have expressed my annoyance about supermarkets, among other things, which are stunts with milk prices. I have asked if you are prepared to examine, in a modest way, whether anything similar could happen in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u38	I did indeed hear Mr Futselaar's question yesterday. Quite precisely: if that means that something is resold under the purchase price, the party that sells this is at a disadvantage itself, I suppose. So what exactly is it about? Is this about the production price? The supermarket has already paid for the product and is going to sell it for a lower price. That's a bit of a grocery store thing. I am concerned that we are not going to lower the price in the chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u39	I like that last one, too. One problem is that we know that supermarkets in practice focus on a number of basic products, including milk, because they know that people compare prices. They then make a profit on deep virespizzas that people also buy in the supermarket. In that case, they do not see a foot in going below the purchase price for a number of specific products, such as milk, or always going down. That doesn't matter to them as much as people come to buy the other, much more expensive products as well. That's a phenomenon that occurs. It bothers me. That is also the reason why supermarkets, for example, stick with the milk price, because of course a few cents doesn't matter very much, either for the supermarket or for the consumer. But the feeling is: this is the cheapest supermarket. I do see a problem there, and possibly a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u40	I think this is another problem. A farmer gets paid what his worth is. This is more of a matter for the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. This has to do with whether parties are allowed to sell their goods below the purchase price. I do not see any possibility of limiting that now, but I think that is a discussion that you should not have with me, but more with the Secretary of State. My point is that if you're going to ban doing that, you're not going to get the pressure down on the farmer to start offering the product cheaper. That's where I see a risk. I want to see how we can limit that. If we are to make a great deal of demands on our farmers in terms of sustainability, the environment and ecology, this farmer must also be able to be paid for, otherwise we will be finished in this country very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u41	I was just listening carefully to the Minister's speech and the Minister indicated that the cabinet is going to explore whether the Authority Consumer & Market, the ACM, is going to have a special team for dispute resolution in the agro-nutrichain. On page 44 of the coalition agreement, however, point 3.4 is literally worded as follows: The Authority Consumer & Markt (ACM) will receive a special team for dispute resolution in the agro-nutrichain. That is a supplement to the report. So the cabinet is not going to investigate it, because that would go against the policy of the government agreement. After all, it just says "gets."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u42	I have indicated that the government agreement states that the ACM will ensure that farmers and gardeners receive a higher price, that the cabinet wants a special team to join the ACM and that I will also see if additional specific powers are needed. That is actually a step on top of what was made in the coalition agreement. I think I have met Mr Geurts completely. I would also like to look together with my colleague from EZK at how we are going to implement this passage in the coalition agreement. In addition, I really want to listen to the ideas about this in the sector. I will inform the Chamber at the beginning of 2018 about the further elaboration of the coalition agreement on this point. The Christian Union asks if the government will support initiatives that strengthen the connection between farmer and citizen and how I intend to tackle this. Am I also prepared to support multi-functional agriculture initiatives? In the coalition agreement, the cabinet indicated that it would encourage initiatives to strengthen the link between farmers and citizens. Multifunctional agriculture is an excellent example of a form of farming which strengthens the connection between the farmer and the citizen and thus between urban and rural areas. One in five farmers now no longer opt for scaling up but for broadening the income model, for example in the form of care, direct sales and city agriculture. First of all, I'm going to see to what extent I can continue and expand the monitoring and impact of multifunctional agriculture with results on short chains and city agriculture. I also like to do this in consultation with LTO. With these results, I would like to return to the Chamber in the first semester of 2018 so that we can continue speaking with each other there. The PVV asks what I am going to do about the lack of a level playing field in the European market and about the motion on a better earning model. It is, of course, up to the business community itself to see how new market strategies and earning models can be developed. The government helps entrepreneurs and chains to do so by setting rules and conditions that facilitate successful innovations for sustainability. Creating good conditions is a continuous process. Since the adoption of the motion mentioned by Mr Graus, for example, the competition and sustainability policy has been adapted. As a result, entrepreneurs have more clarity about the possibilities of making sustainability agreements. In addition, the CAP has extended the possibility for producers to organise themselves. The Chamber was informed about the implementation of that motion on 11 July 2013. The Bill Area for Sustainability Initiatives I mentioned just now that sustainability initiatives can receive general funding have been consulted in 2017. The proposal is expected to be presented to the Chamber in 2018. Of course, I am also committed to a strong competitive position for Dutch farmers on the European market. This means an effort to maintain a level playing field and a uniform regime, including in the field of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u43	The latter very much appeals to me and especially to animal welfare. I've missed that a few times in the last few days. I am also quite annoyed by "LNV," because that should actually be "LNVD" and preferably "DLNV." I know how you feel about the animals getting there before. I am very sorry that the animals are never mentioned at such a ministry, when we are allowed to live with them. I was, of course, referring to the unequal playing field with regard to VAT. But I am also thinking of the terrible landing obligation that our fishermen face. Madam President, I have to explain this and I shall refrain from doing so with a second interruption. I have been to interparliamentary conferences, as a Member on behalf of the States-General. You'll see all those people sitting there who have nothing to do with fishing. They are not fishing countries, but they are interfering with our policy. When we talked about fishing, they went outside to eat pizzas and drink pots of beer, and then they came back and got involved. Of course you can't. There is a completely uneven playing field for our fishermen, including in terms of VAT, but also in terms of earning model. I'd like to have a reaction to that, too. What is the Minister going to do to charge it to the rich and powerful retailers? They're taking the big money now. We impose animal welfare standards on our farmers and our farmers comply with them, but in the meantime, retailers benefit from profit and animal-friendly products. I believe that this profit should end up in the hands of the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u44	I agree with the latter. I also believe that farmers should be allowed to make more use of the sustainability initiatives they are taking. That is why I have just indicated that we are going to come up with a concrete legislative proposal on this in 2018. It's up for consultation now. I think we are already offering Mr Graus a little more on that point. I have just indicated in reply to Mr Geurts what we are going to do, for example, with the Consumer & Market Authority, that we are also ensuring that companies and producers can organise themselves in order to gain more market power. Those are all parts that we are going to give substance to. At the beginning of 2018, I will inform the Chamber more specifically how we are going to shape this. But I think that we are taking very serious steps to ensure that a farmer, whom we are quite demanding with each other, can also see the price of his product. Mr President, I come to the common agricultural policy. Last week, Commissioner Hogan kicked off the debate on the new CAP......................................................................................................................................................................................... An important document, on which I will send the Chamber a first appreciation in January in the form of a BNC sheet. In this context, the SP has asked whether the Netherlands can take responsibility for setting its own rules in the new CAP, and whether I want to work for real greening in the new CAP, both in Brussels and in the development of this in the Netherlands. I can tell you that in its communication on the new CAP, the European Commission has indeed chosen a new CAP architecture, with greater responsibility for Member States. It is therefore a choice for more subsidiarity, which Mr Futselaar should address. More room has been chosen for Member States to implement the CAP at national level, and this is also in line with what the government agreement wants. There will be more room for responsible implementation of the CAP in good consultation with your Chamber and with social parties, in a way that does justice to the societal challenges we face. I would also like to use the CAP reform to improve greening. The effectiveness of the current greening policy remains inadequate. The Greening CAP report which was sent to your Chamber on 28 September last also shows this. It is my commitment to ensure that the CAP contributes effectively and effectively to societal challenges and challenges in the areas of climate, nature, environment, biodiversity and landscape. D66 has also asked how the CAP can contribute to the transition to circular agriculture. In its communication, the European Commission states that the future CAP should contribute more to societal challenges in the areas of sustainability, climate, nature, environment, biodiversity and landscape. These include ideas on how the CAP can contribute to the closure of cycles. I support the European Commission's ideas on sustainability, and circular agriculture can be part of that. The debate on circular agriculture will also take place when the future CAP is implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u45	That sounds good. You need to use the CAP for more societal goals, including greening and biodiversity. I am very impressed by that. However, the CAP has two functions. It has an income support function and it has a role to play in achieving these social goals. Is the Minister prepared to add to what she says the consequence that there will be a shift from direct income support to those social goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u46	The coalition agreement states, as you have read, that the Netherlands will be committed to focusing them more on the social goals, on their remuneration, so that is our commitment in Europe as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u47	From this, I understand that there is going to be a shift in the overall budget from direct income support to those social objectives. I find that encouraging. I think that's necessary, too. My second question is whether the Minister is prepared to give us an overview of the effects of this income support. There are still some noises that income support is taking place in situations where this is not really necessary, because the farm is profitable enough. My thesis is that you should only administer a drug if there's a disease. Is the Minister prepared to indicate how income support is distributed among businesses and entrepreneurs? Can it indicate exactly how it lands and whether it is necessary at all for different types of companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u48	I don't know if it's actually gonna happen like this. I thank Mr Moorlag for having so much faith in our negotiating capabilities. We are, of course, going into a major negotiating circuit with regard to the CAP, and we must look at what is ultimately the result of this. There many Member States have different interests, I can also say. I have said what the Dutch are doing, and that is what we agreed on in the coalition agreement. The question is whether I should like to give an overview of what this income support is like and whether that is almost a political question. I think that's a crazy discussion at the moment when you're just agreeing conditions for getting income support. They are partly on the hectare premium and partly on the social goals. So is the current system. If you let that be the conditions for getting that support, you shouldn't go back and say that you think it's too much anyway. Then you're not really reliable as a government either. I think we need to focus much more on the question of what we want this support to focus on. I have just indicated that, in the case of the cabinet, we are focusing much more on achieving social goals. We need to see what kind of steps we can take there instead of, once we have agreed on those targets, seeing if we are actually okay with it as we have agreed. I think we should think of that in advance. Then there is the future of agriculture. In order to maintain our competitive position in the future, it is important that we have a solid knowledge base rooted in a modern agricultural sector. Without sector no knowledge. The future of our agricultural sector is in the hands of young farmers. I am therefore very pleased, as I have already said, with the fund for the takeover of young farmers. Last Saturday, I was at the NAJK's 40th anniversary, the organisation of the young farmers to name them. I talked to them there. They were all very special conversations. They were special in the sense that the young people indicated how much they wanted to get into that profession, how much they wanted to get a place in agriculture, livestock farming or gardening, but also how complicated that sometimes is. That's what he's on many fronts. How do you deal with family, for example? How do you take such big risks? How are you going to concretely shape all that? There were also young people who had eventually chosen not to, because they thought the risk was too great or for other reasons. I also saw how much impact it had on those young people that they wanted to carry out the profession so badly with their hearts and with their souls, but not always the possibilities. Then I am proud that, as a cabinet, we can give just that little push to give these young people a chance. Moreover, the young people I have spoken to all of them have ideas about innovation, about their contribution to social goals and about how they want to farm. These are all ideas and innovations which are very much in line with the discussions we often have here and with how we want agriculture to be carried out. So I think this is exactly how the knife can cut both sides. We give young farmers, including those who do not come from a family of farmers, a chance to start or take over a farm. At the same time, we can contribute to societal goals and innovations in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u49	We also asked questions about this to the Prime Minister during the debate on the declaration of government. For in itself we find such a fund for young farmers a sympathetic proposal from the coalition agreement. But we believe that the tasks of agriculture and the social tasks are so great that you cannot spend 75 million without a condition. Now I hear the Minister say that the young farmers they speak have ideas about these social tasks. But one way or another, we must make it clear that the 75 million will not be spent on branches of agriculture or on farms where there are still major animal welfare, nature, meeting climate requirements, and you name it all. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u50	I am now working, together with the young people, to see how we are implementing this fund and also to see where their questions lie and where their problems lie. We need to be able to join that. That also comes to your room. So at that point we can also discuss with each other how that was designed. I want to try to achieve that as soon as possible, but it will be in the first half of 2018 that these contours will also come to the Chamber here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u51	Well, fine. Thank you for that commitment. I therefore understand that the conditions for making use of this fund are still being submitted to the Chamber. And I also understood from the Minister's earlier remarks that she is very keen to take into account the social conditions and improvements in areas such as nature, climate and animal welfare. That's how I understand the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u52	I am talking to the young people about this and I have heard from the young people themselves that they have a lot of ideas about it. How exactly we are going to work that out, you will see early 2018. Then there is the measures relating to livestock farming. The government agreement includes a number of important measures concerning the acceleration and sustainability of livestock farming, the warm improvement of pig farming and the handling of public health problems and the quality of the environment in livestock-tight and loaded areas. Several members, from the Party for Animals, the SP, GroenLinks, the CDA, the VVD and D66, have asked about the warm clean-up of pig farming and how this will be implemented. And is this accompanied by a reduction in pig rights? The cabinet invests 200 million in a warm clean-up of pig farming in livestock-tight and taxed areas. It is too early to say exactly how I am going to implement this. In the short term, I will talk to business and local authorities, including the Province of North Brabant, about their ideas on how to use these funds properly and the willingness to cooperate. In this consultation, I will also deal with the public health problems and the quality of the environment in livestock-tight and in charge of the provinces concerned. This is also what the VVD asked for. It concerns the effects on public health when living in an area with many animals and the discussions on emissions of substances, on the use of plant protection products and on the nuisance experienced in some areas. This cabinet recognises that there are areas where the high density of livestock can lead to health risks and damage to quality of life. This leads increasingly to social unrest in these areas. This has also been demonstrated by the surveys on livestock farming and health residents. The follow-up study carried out under VGO consists of a number of partial studies, including an epidemiological analysis of general practitioners' data for the years 2014 to 2016 in the VGO area. That is part of North Brabant and also the north of Limburg. This follow-up study will examine whether the links previously found also occur in these years. This sub-study is expected to be completed by mid-2018. One of the recommendations of the latest VGO study is to carry out this analysis in other areas to see if the same effect occurs here. Currently, it is being examined which areas in provinces other than North Brabant and Limburg meet the conditions for such an analysis. This sub-study is expected to be completed by mid-2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u53	A little back, about the implementation of the warm clean-up. The Minister says: I don't know yet, I'm going to have a conversation. I can understand all that, but something of a term would be nice for the Chamber. Are we talking about spring, before summer, still in 2018? I'm just throwing up a few balls, because this is a hot hanger in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u54	I get that, I'm very aware of that and I think it's a hot iron myself. So I can state that I will inform the Chamber in the first half of 2018 about how we are going to do this exactly. This section needs to be designed very carefully and there are also quite a few parties involved. I want to involve them, because I think it will benefit the design. There's already conversations going on. Officially, people are already busy working on it. But to really shape it well, we need a little bit of time. My ambition is really to get to the Chamber as soon as possible, but then I want it to be a full-fledged plan. So just give me a little bit of time. Mr. Chairman. I was on the verge of health tests. At the same time, an investigation is being carried out into the causes of increased disease pressure in goat farms. This overall study is expected to be completed by 2020. The results of the research on the exposure to plant protection products of neighbors of agricultural parcels, carried out by RIVM, are expected to be available at the end of 2018. The results of the health survey are expected in spring 2018. So there are quite a lot of investigations coming your way around this point. GroenLinks and the SP asked me if the pigs did not return elsewhere in the Netherlands. Are we going to reduce the problem or move it alone? And aren't empty stables filled by goat farms? D66 asked how to prevent the reorganisation of pig farming from becoming a subsidy for goat farming by stopping pig farmers from keeping goats in their empty stables, and whether North Brabant could be given the opportunity to draw up a plan linking provinces' powers. The aim of the reform of pig farming is to address health and environmental risks in areas with very high livestock density. In consultation with the local authorities and the Vitalisation Coalition, I will also stress that an effective approach and efficient use of the resources available means that the problems in the livestock-proof areas must be solved in a sustainable and lasting way. It will certainly also consider the powers of the province and municipalities in the field of spatial planning and environmental law, and how these powers can contribute to addressing the problems of public health, the quality of life and the quality of the environment in relation to livestock farming. The provinces and municipalities already have the power to re-establish and expand livestock farms, including new goat farms in old pig stables, independently of the way in which the clean-up process is implemented. By virtue of this competence, a temporary moratorium on the extension and re-establishment of goat farms is already in force in the provinces of North Brabant and Gelderland. So there are already possibilities. The Animal Party has asked for how many pigs are involved in the warm clean-up and how it could have gotten to the point where the livestock is too large while the permits were fully in line with the environmental boundary conditions. Despite the government's policy to make livestock farming more sustainable and the spatial planning policies of provinces and municipalities, livestock density has increased in certain areas due to the relocation and concentration of livestock farms. Although environmental pressures per animal have been reduced by public policy in recent decades, the high concentration of livestock farming in certain areas has kept the environmental pressures and pressures on the quality of the environment in these areas high.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u55	Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive and careful answer to the questions on goat farming. I understand there's a moratorium in Brabant and Gelderland. Only, this moratorium is temporary. To what extent is the Minister prepared to implement this temporary in that consultation, taking into account the powers of the provinces? Is there any way to prevent us from creating all kinds of problems again by relocating goat farming in the state-bought stables?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u56	I understand Mr De Groot's question. However, the fact that the provinces themselves have already taken a decision indicates that local authorities are best placed to make that assessment themselves. When I say to them "this is what you have to do" with regard to their own powers, some things are mixed up. If they were to do this the other way round, we would also say thank you for the advice, but we are making our own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u57	I understand that, and I think the Minister is much more diplomatic than that. The question is: can you talk about how this issue can be resolved together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u58	We can bring it up, but I really don't think I need to tell them how to act. I think they are perfectly capable of making their own assessment and that they are doing so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u59	Mr. Moorlag, even at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u60	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Has the Minister taken note of the position of the Association of Dutch Municipalities? It has sent a note to our spokesmen saying that the instruments for spatial planning are not sufficient to achieve the desired social impact, namely the management of livestock farming. You have just said 'we are going to look at the Environment Act and the Ro-instrumentarium', but can you assure me that you want to meet the wishes of the municipalities to improve the instruments that have to be regulated by law, so that municipalities really feel the comfort they can guide the desired developments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u61	There are always conversations with the VNG and we always see what we can do if there are problems. Around the Environmental Act there are stages that have not yet been completed. I myself am talking to the province of Noord-Brabant to see how we can shape the warm clean-up. We are looking at where the biggest problem is, where the bottlenecks are and how we can help each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u62	My question is a little more specific: are you prepared to give municipalities the instruments they are asking for? That doesn't mean they're going to use it. If you have it in the toolbox, you decide whether to take it out. Municipalities ask that question. Are you willing to provide municipalities with these tools in the Environmental Law and the Regional Planning Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u63	I think that's a discussion that the municipalities themselves are having with us, for example, about the Environment Act. So if that's what they want, I'd say bring that in to the discussions on the Environment Act. Colleagues of mine are having these discussions. So if municipalities so wish, I think they can bring that directly into the appropriate discussions that are taking place on this issue. I'm getting to the point...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u64	There is another question from Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u65	Two things stick with me. One. I feel like she's closed this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u66	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u67	I still have no answer to the question whether the Minister can clearly indicate that pigs disappearing in Brabant do not return elsewhere. I don't think I've heard an answer to that. Can the Minister give a clear answer to that question? Two. There must be a health check-up. The Minister says that she needs this in order to possibly come up with measures on distance criteria and things like that, because that's what you're talking about. That's gonna take until 2020. Does this mean that the Minister agrees that such a moratorium may be maintained by provinces until 2020, so that they do not in the meantime encounter problems with the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u68	We carry out these investigations very thoroughly, as can be seen from the number of investigations. I just picked up a whole list. We have the VGO I and the VGO II reports and the RIVM investigations. We do all these research because we are really looking for the causes of the experienced health problem. I can also see that this is taking some time, but in this case I think it is important because I want this to be examined very carefully. In the meantime, there will be some investigations into this Chamber. We can then look together at the results of these investigations and their significance. So I do not think it should be until 2020 before we have that discussion together. In the meantime, investigations or partial investigations into your Room are already underway. The provinces themselves have already made a number of choices in which they have made their own assessment, for example with regard to goat farming in North Brabant and Gelderland. That's their trade-off. I will not go into that now for the rest, because that is really a decision of the provinces themselves. What I can do is to carry out truly objective investigations into the relationship between the health complaints that are experienced and the causes underlying them. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u69	I would have combined that with the question of whether those pigs are coming back somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u70	I believe it was the Prime Minister who said during the debate on the declaration of government: if pigs disappear in Brabant, they will not be returned to Gelderland. That is also the vision of the cabinet, but we are going to work with the sector and with other stakeholders such as the provinces that are also an important player in this discussion to see how we are going to shape it. I'm going to inform your room about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u71	Thank you. That's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u72	You will continue your speech. Have you now arrived at the block about nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u73	No, I have a block on animal welfare and some other things. Shall I just try to make pace, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u74	Good. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u75	For Mr Graus in particular, I created a very specific block on animal welfare, because he felt that the animals were not present in the text. I'm just trying to make that up to you. Animal welfare is also firmly anchored in the coalition agreement, as Mr Graus may have seen. I will start with the themes mentioned therein, such as the prevention of barn fires, transport, the white list of bona fide dog dealers and the positive lists. I also want to ensure that the Netherlands continues to work with other frontrunners to improve animal welfare and a level playing field in Europe and beyond. Trade agreements do not conflict with European standards. In the first quarter of 2018, I will also inform your Chamber about the further development of my animal welfare policy. In doing so, I will seek the connection and dialogue with different parties. Everyone has a role to play in this: the keeper of the animals, the parties in the chain, civil society organisations and also the consumer who buys meat or purchases a pet. Let me make Mr Graus an offer. I also heard him talk about the National Expertise Centre on Animal Abuse, which was recently opened. Mr Graus praised, I believe, the fact that it was also opened with a fine speech by an official of the Ministry. That was a nice speech; that's right. I know that Mr Graus has always been very committed to this. To be honest, I'd like to go to the National Expertise Centre on Animal Abuse. I haven't been able to go there this week. I would actually like to ask Mr Graus if he wants to come with me. I would ask him to go to the LED together, as it is called in the abbreviations. We therefore have the opportunity to discuss a possible cooperation between the LED and the Veterinary Forensic Team.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u76	That is a nice offer and I would very much like to take advantage of it. I'm grateful to the Minister for that, too. I do not want to be content with caterpillars, but I still have a supplementary question. Thank you for involving the Veterinary Forensic Team, which I appreciate very much, but the only thing I would like to ask is the Stay of My Animal project, for which Mrs Ouwehand has already worked once. This also has to do with domestic violence; animals seized in domestic violence situations. Then the women often end up in a Stay of My Bodyhouse, but the animals are often left to their own devices. Is it possible that we could...? Then we'll have everything together, if we can combine that. That would be nice, because that has all to do with each other. It's all about animal cruelty. Then we'll also involve the particle of domestic violence and animals, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u77	And with that all on a job visit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u78	I understand I'm going to the Animal Abuse National Expertise with the Minister. And also to the VFT; that's what the minister himself said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u79	Yes; that we can talk about the possible cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u80	That's fine. That's what I'm talking about. Okay, let's do it like this. Then I'll include that Stay off my Animal project, because it all goes together. It's one chain, so to speak. Thanks for the offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u81	We're gonna set a date, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u82	Thank you, Madam Secretary, through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr. Chairman. The PVV and SP have asked about the stable fire prevention plan; what about the announced measures to prevent barn fire. Mr Graus specifically asked about the involvement of Mr Albert Weijman. The cabinet wants to reduce the number of barn fires and to this end, together with the insurance companies and chain quality systems for 2019, will agree on the control of rodents by entrepreneurs and a periodic electric inspection. On 30 August, your Chamber received the evaluation of the 2012-2016 Action Plan and its intentions for the follow-up. Among other things, it undertook to launch a short-term review of the possibility of introducing additional fire prevention requirements for existing stables in the Building Decision. Such an investigation takes time. Legal feasibility, enforcement and consequences and costs for livestock farmers, as well as opportunities for phased introduction, should be considered. As a result, the results of that study will not be available before the second half of 2018. To Mr Graus: Mr Weijman spoke about rodent control to prevent short-circuiting in technical installations. The outcome was that the Action Plan developed a course on pest control, which took into account the experience of these experts. Do you want me to finish the block, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u84	Yes, well, I don't know what Mr De Groot's interruption is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u85	About barn fires.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u86	I'm just gonna finish it for a second, because it's just a little bit more. The PVV specifically asked about the trial Stable Safe. The Stable Safe system has been discussed with your Chamber before, I understand. Also discussed with your Room in 2016 that the system is useful in stables, but is not yet functional in pigs stables. Trying out such a system is primarily a matter for private parties. To date, no holders have offered to try this system. I will raise this again in my consultation with the parties who are now preparing the new action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u87	I have a question about barn fires. Your predecessor has announced additional measures on the basis of the motion of D66 and the Party for Animals, and that was not for nothing. It has been some time since we have taken up this problem. We had a horrible summer last summer, with lots of barn fires. A number of measures have been mentioned: rodent control, electrical inspections. Insurance companies have also come forward with proposals this summer, which they already believe is effective. I have also spoken to entrepreneurs myself, who say that it is preventable. Frankly, I am shocked by your remark that it is only the second half of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u88	No, no, no: before 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u89	2018. Well, my request is: please don't spend another summer. Get this as fast as you can. I think we know enough now to make a start. Insurance companies are really prepared to take action on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u90	Okay. Mr President, I hear what Mr De Groot is saying. I will make every effort to make it happen more quickly. As you can hear, I'm announcing a lot before the beginning of 2018. There is a lot of work going on in the department, but I do see the importance of taking steps quickly. We'll do it as soon as we can. I cannot yet state exactly when that is, but I have heard Mr De Groot's remark that we really need to get to work on this quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u91	I understood that Dr. Weijman was called last week and that he was involved in this as a gnaw-burning expert. Thank you for that. After my contribution last night, a Mr. Abrahamse wrote to me. I do not know the best gentleman personally yet, but he wrote to me that in stables there are a lot of gnaw fires caused by the use of certain oils in cables, including fish oil, to keep them flexible. It's supposed to attract rodents. Could it be investigated whether Mr Abrahamsen is right? I didn't hear it from him personally, but by e-mail. I thanked him for that. Maybe we should take that, because that man could have a point. I know that Volkswagen once had a problem because cables were bitten through by martens. In those cables there was a certain sweetener that was attractive to martens, which made Volkswagen more likely to be screwed than other cars. I remember that very well. So it could be that the best man is right. Could the Minister take that with him? The Stable Safe system has just been tested by the fire department and the inventors in pigs. I have shown a video in the Lower House showing that pigs do not die of smoke if they have an escape route. 'Cause if you only have a sprinkler, they're gonna die of smoke. You should be able to let them run away. That Stable Safe system, which was created by the Graus motion on the stable fire prevention plan, was just tested and made for pigs. This works on the suppression system of pig farmers' feeding systems. That's also made for pig farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u92	I have already indicated that I will bring this to the attention of the parties who draw up the new action plan once again. But of course it is also up to the private parties themselves to simply fill that out. Let me stress it one more time. Your comment has been heard on the reasons why the pipes or cables are being regurgitated. There's just expertise with the people who are already working on it and looking at it. I think that any suggestion on this point is just as welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u93	I'm gonna go into barn burning, too. In my contribution, I praised your predecessor's letter. I didn't do that much with Mr Van Dam's actions. A cynic might say "that letter is easy to send if you know that you don't have to carry it out after a week," but nevertheless I don't think it should be explained that it should take a year to investigate what is legally feasible, even if it is complex. I just don't think I can explain that. Colleagues have rightly said that it is worse every summer, 2015, 2016, 2017. If we do not have the means to actually do something in the spring, then we know that we are going into a similar summer. I don't want to be a MP who just asks "when are you gonna do this?" And "when are you going to do that?" This has got to be happening right now. We must have completed this before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u94	I have already indicated that we will do our best to send that inquiry to the Chamber as soon as possible. I can't do so much about it that it's so complex. The letter from the predecessor belonged to the predecessor. I'll tell you what I want to do and I'll try to do it as soon as I can. We also recognise the importance of the prevention of barn fires in the coalition agreement. So that's what we'll just focus our attention on. I'll do what's in my power. That is what I can promise Mr Futselaar. It's not unwillingness, let me put it this way. Mr. Chairman. I have a piece of other questions in the context of agriculture. I'll try to get through that at some speed. Then there is the issue of mental health care for farmers and gardeners and the question of giving them a prominent place within the crisis approach in legislation leading to intervention in agricultural management. Mr Geurts has asked if I am prepared to come up with a proposal for this. Around Mr Geurts' proposal there were a number of stories in the newspapers about farmers who, in different situations, are really getting into a lot of trouble. I have to say, those stories take hold of me. They are often not people who are the first to be able to meet their needs when it is very heavy. The impact can be enormous if your company is cleared, if you can't make it financially strong anymore. Perhaps there is also shame behind it, or there is a sense of responsibility towards the family. There are very different causes and very different needs in this respect. I've been looking into what's going on in the event of a crisis. If there is a crisis, what exactly happens in the field of mental health care? I understand that if the NVWA finds a crisis, it will send signals directly to the municipal medical service, the GGD, and that the GGD will have the task of providing appropriate psychosocial care and assistance, in this case for the farmers concerned and their surroundings. This enables tailor-made work to be done, which, of course, depends on the seriousness of the problems. The need for this and the need for it can also be identified at the level of the security region. The aid can also be organised there, in which various heirs and trade associations can also play a role. With this method, useful experiences have already been gained from the water and hail damage in the southeast of the Netherlands in 2016. I believe that there is sufficient attention for those entrepreneurs who are having a hard time. I made a work visit in Renswoude, at a company that was partly affected by the fipronil crisis. I have seen the impact of a crisis situation on a farmer and his family. I will ensure that, in such situations, attention is paid to the entrepreneur and his environment right from the start. We often have protocols in crisis situations to set things in motion. If this is the case, I will check whether the right steps are being taken to ensure that there is awareness of support and that access to aid is made very accessible. I would like to make that commitment to Mr Geurts. The moment there is a crisis, I will really draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u95	I thank the Minister for this commitment, but it goes a little deeper. I know it works this way. Only, you will be offered help from people who are not equipped for that; let me put it this way. The GGD generally doesn't understand what lives and happens on the farmyard. It's gonna take a floor blow. I had also asked a question about legislation. I ask through the President whether the Minister is prepared to look at this in the legislation as well. For example, we have a paragraph on administrative burdens, which is absolutely incomparable. It is important that the Minister as legislator and we as co-legislators have an eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u96	Sure. I think we have a joint responsibility in this. It is good that Mr Geurts points out that we need to pay attention to this not only from the cabinet, but also from the Chamber and from society as a whole. We must, of course, take these aspects into account in the debate. We need to see how we can make that happen. Mr Geurts is calling for more specialized assistance, if I understand correctly. I'm just trying to figure out exactly what his question is at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u97	Specialized help, yes. The normal channels run through the GGD, but it is completely unequipped, let me put it bluntly for these situations. I don't want to disqualify the whole GGD, but in general it doesn't understand how an agricultural company works and what comes of it during such a crisis. There are, sporadically, a number of people who are specially equipped for that and who understand that. I'm more in search of that, that can be used. I can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u98	Then I'd have to see what it's up to that they can't be deployed. As a result of a number of crises that are unfortunately happening! I understand that it is really being actively pointed out and that it is also being referred to mental health care. When there is more specialised care available and there is no access to it, I can see what the bottlenecks are. I am not aware of these problems, but if they are, I would like to see how they might be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u99	I thank the Minister for this commitment. Also on my side I will work on a clarification and then we can see how we come out together. I think that this open attitude of this Minister will work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u100	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u101	We support the fact that there is good health care for everyone, including for farmers who get into trouble, but I do get a bit of a weird feeling about this. There's been tremendous cuts in mental health care. Everyone has the right to the care they need. I would therefore like to ask this Minister how we can solve this; and then for everyone and not just for the farmers. I fully agree with Mr Geurts that specific situations require specific care. So I want the cabinet to offer it, but how should we see it in the light of the cuts and in the light of all the discussions on mental health that this Chamber has actually had with the previous cabinet? Can we expect this ambition to be extended and reflect on the cuts in mental health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u102	The reflection on the cuts in mental health care will undoubtedly also be done with my colleague from VWS, who is responsible for this. This concerns the specific issue of access to mental health care in crisis situations. I have indicated that it has already been secured in the current procedure. So I do not think that what is happening there is suddenly being increased. At the same time, I think Mr Geurts is asking, at least that is what I am trying to do; I am trying to take a look at access to a number of specialized people, because there seems to be a bottleneck there. I don't know the bottlenecks, so I want to see if those bottlenecks are there. If Mr. Geurts knows them, I'd love to hear them. I say I want to see if this is unknown. If so, we could refer these people to them or indicate that they know much more about them. It seems to me a small effort to remind people in need of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u103	For the record, that's what we're here for. We therefore support that, but this debate cannot pass without noticing that it was also those parties who cut mental health care. It is important that we ensure that care is up-to-date in the Netherlands for all those who need mental health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u104	I see that as an observation towards a number of parties. That's for your room. Mr. Chairman. Then the Christian Union asks if I would like to inform your Chamber for the Spring Note if I am willing to reserve money for the public-private financing of innovation on the farm. Entrepreneurs can work together on innovations in various programmes, for example within the top sector Agri & Food and the top sector Gardening and Output Materials. This also applies to the innovations needed on the farmyard to contribute to solutions to societal problems. Soon, my fellow Minister of EZK will send the Knowledge and Innovation Contract for 2018 and 2019 to your Chamber, which will include the available budgets for public-private collaboration in both top sectors. Also in the second pillar of the CAP, the rural development plan, there is scope to stimulate innovation on the farmyard. This part of the POP I use an abbreviation again; sorry about it is carried out by the provinces, which will organise openings for this in the coming years. In general terms, the government agreement has made available a substantial additional budget of 400 million in structural terms for research and innovation on the major social themes, including agriculture, food and water. I am talking to my colleagues from OCW and EZK about how this impulse will become available. Your Chamber will also be informed about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u105	I thank the Minister for this answer. I have already had a lot of discussions with the previous member of the government about innovation on the farmyard, because many references are made to top sector policy. But the experience is that budgets from top sectors policy are very difficult to land on the farm. I refer to the way in which the FoodValley works, i.e. the fight against nitrogen, the integrated plant protection, for which there are pilots in Groningen. Those are all kinds of pilots that are just really hard to claim on those budgets. How can we reduce the gap between the top sectors policy and the farmer's inheritance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u106	The themes mentioned by Mrs Dik-Faber are precisely those that are also included in the agendas of the top sectors. I think maybe it's more about applying the innovations to the farmyard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u107	Innovation takes place from the bottom up. There are initiatives in Groningen, in the FoodValley and elsewhere. Those farmers have good ideas and those farmers need support for that. These initiatives are difficult for the top sectors. In the province they do have the POP funds, but it's so hard to get that money. It seems to be very cumbersome. A lot of farmers are just giving up, because the whole process doesn't really outweigh the support they get. So this is actually a cry from the farmers. They say: we want to innovate, help us with public-private cooperation, make budget available for it and do so by other means than the POP and the top sectors policy, because we are not eligible for it. It's too high and too hard to reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u108	Before replying, "POP" stands for "Rural Development Programme."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u109	Very good, Mr. President! The social challenges mentioned by Mrs Dik-Faber are partly included in the programme I mentioned. I only understand that Mrs Dik-Faber says that there are a lot of ideas from the bottom up and that these ideas do not really get through enough to the more institutionalized frameworks. Let me put it this way. I'd like to promise that I can see if that access can be improved. In the coalition agreement, however, the innovation resources have been cut down in these programmes. I think Mrs Dik-Faber saw the same thing. So there is no other area for innovation now, except for the two that I mentioned: the top sectors plus the POP funds. It is then more a matter of: how can you promote decentralised or local initiatives, let me just call it "more"? I want to see what the thresholds are and what the problems with them are. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u110	Then I would like to make use of an interruption on this point as well. In the written reply of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, for which, by the way, thank you, the answer to my question on the Agro-Top is given. Last year I called for this during the budget debate. It's been opened recently. To be honest, I met by chance that it would open. I think it is very much in line with Mrs Dik-Faber's point. On the one hand, it is, of course, access to innovation funding, but on the other hand, we must also focus on avoiding regulation that hinders or restricts innovation. Is the Minister prepared, if she also looks at Mrs Dik-Faber's point, to bring to the attention of the Agro-Faber, and not just through the organisations representing farmers, growers and fishermen? Perhaps the Minister can do so himself. My second question is in line with Mrs Dik-Faber's request. Will the Minister take a look at the bodies involved in innovation and innovation funding for pilots? I mean, for example, a TacRav committee that assesses whether or not a sustainable floor is eligible for a pilot phase. I think there's a lot of space there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u111	I hear in this Chamber the wider wish that it is clear how parties can claim innovation resources, how they might be able to fit in with the larger structures that exist and how they can be made known. I'll take a look at that. I will also inform you about the possibilities for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u112	I'd love to. In the short term, can the Agro-Street Office, which has been opened, also be brought to the attention of the public? I have seen that this minister is doing a very good job on social media promoting her work. I ask her to promote such schemes as well. I think that could be valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u113	I'll see if we can put a message on social media about that. But I would also like to give some information to the representative organisations. Of course, they have really wide range towards their members. On social media, we can always draw attention to the initiative of the Agro-Steam. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is still asking about the agricultural efficiency approach and if I am prepared to take concrete steps in this respect. I share the view that agricultural efficiency, in a narrow sense, is one-sidedly understood as the pursuit of the highest possible production at the lowest possible cost................................................................................................................................................................................ I want to work on connecting economic, environmental and other social values. I would then like to give a concrete explanation of this, building on the coalition agreement, with the agriculture that produces food with respect for its environment. That was the "agriculture" block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u114	Thank you. I see a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u115	My question is not about the last point. I am satisfied with the Minister's response to this. I would like to look forward to further discussions. I do have a question about the Sixth Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive. It's starting to look like a collision, I'd say. I would like to ask the Minister again if she can realise, once again moving in the position of a Member of Parliament, that she may have more information about what has happened in the past six months. In the end, no plan was ever sent to us. It cannot do much about this, because it has been largely the choice of its predecessor, but there has never been a draft of the Sixth Action Programme sent to the Chamber. Maybe the Minister can remember what it means when you get a note like that after you've spent six months trying to get a plan to the Chamber. That really hit me. My second question is: can the Minister tell me what its meaning is when we talk about this after Christmas? If it is a done thing and nothing else could change to a plan submitted to the European Commission, then I wonder what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u116	Mr Grashoff says that he has never seen a draft programme. I think we just discussed that with each other. That concept program has here in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u117	Mr President, one thing...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u118	Mr. Grashoff, I see what you're doing. You are using one interruption for two completely different questions, although concrete ones. I would now like the Minister to give the answer. Then you have a very short opportunity for a second part of your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u119	I'd like to outline the process. I am not going to state exactly what my predecessor's considerations have been, because I do not know. But such a concept action programme is established with all kinds of parties. Those are intensive discussions. It's also a thick package. There's a lot in it. There's the m.e.r. Commission. Involved. There are different parties. There are views. So that is a continuous process, in which you are discussing the way in which you are implementing the Nitrates Directive with the Sixth Action Programme. In fact, that process takes place until now. That document is still being looked at, also because there have been many views that we are still processing. So it is not that we are holding something back; it is simply not yet definitive. That is the process we are now in. I should also like to point out that it is not the case that the fifth action programme has necessarily had a lot of input from the Chamber. We have constantly informed the Chamber of what we were doing. That is what we have done now. We have also talked about this. I have said that there are different choices underneath and that we are processing those views, but also that it is always a process in the vein of: if we do not sink down. Because if we go down, we have a problem in Brussels about the derogation. Does that mean the Chamber can't find anything? Yes, I can, but I can assure you one thing: I think we'll be ready the day before Christmas. Then we'll send it to Europe. That is where it has to be before the end of the year. The Chamber can then talk to me about that plan in January. During the AA, I think I have already indicated that this is a coherent set of measures with all kinds of parties, and we are always looking for the balance to ensure that we do comply with the Nitrates Directive. Above all, we also want to see what is the best set of measures. The Chamber can find all kinds of things, but I'm always going to give this back: if something is changed on the one hand, it means something on the other. Otherwise, the balance in that whole is gone. So the Chamber can just talk to me about that plan in January, but we have to show what our plan is before 1 January. That's what we're working hard on right now. That's the stage we're in right now. There's no unwillingness or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u120	Mr Grashoff, briefly in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u121	I'm trying to keep it as short as I can. A few things. We didn't get the plan sent. If people here are screaming behind me that it is, I challenge them to call it the Chamberpiece in front of it. It's not here. In fact, we have had an endless number of letters, but not the plan. In fact, the minister's predecessor explicitly stated in one of those letters that he did not intend to send a draft to the Chamber and that he only wanted to talk about the final plan with the Chamber. Well, then, here's what I need to establish. There is a deadline of 31 December 2017. We've been working since before the summer. There was already an AO planned on the action plan that was not there at the time and that we then moved on. Then I have no choice but to conclude that there is a really big planning problem within the department, where this minister is now reaping the sour fruit of it. But it shouldn't be like this. Parliamentary treatment should be taken into account if Parliament so wishes. And, of course, not if the Chamber states that two days in advance, but if the Chamber indicates it six months in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u122	Thank you. Mr Grashoff, your position is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u123	Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u124	No, Mr Grashoff, I don't think it's proper. I have been very cavalier at the beginning of this debate: five interruptions. You are one of the few members who use any interruption for two completely different questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u125	That's not true, Mr. Chairman. This is simply about the Sixth Nuclear Action Programme. That's what my question is about. I have not yet received a specific answer to the question as to whether it really is true that, if we talk about it in January, this can change something about reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u126	I have always said that you can still change something about reality. I am simply saying that we must ensure that the balance is maintained. We are going to go to Europe with a plan and say: this is what we are doing in order to achieve the Nitrate Directive. Your room can find any amount of that. Your room can get rid of the whole plan. Then we have another problem. So it's not unwillingness, but it's so that for us this is the way we're putting things into practice. Europe is asking: what is the content? We'll give it to you at the time. The process takes so long because we want to do it very carefully with all parties. Then we do that and then it's not good again, because then it takes too long again. I'm a little stuck. I'm trying to give the room everything I have. There is nothing definitive yet, because we are still implementing the views that have been expressed. The moment it's there, the Chamber can just talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u127	Mr Futselaar. I have reason to believe that you will continue at the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u128	That is correct, Mr President, because I share Mr Grashoff's annoyance. The Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme is a political document. It contains a series of measures. I'm behind some, but I'm struggling with others. I also mentioned this in the AO, when we tried to talk about the draft report, which I had indeed picked from the Internet somewhere to say something about it. And yes, we can talk about it in January, but we know exactly what will happen next. Then the Minister is probably right to say: "Everything we change now puts the derogation at risk. Know what you're doing, Room. If you change something now, the derogation will be compromised." And then, as a chamber, we are silenced on this program. This is no way to deal with the Chamber. I can't blame the Minister personally, but the office is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u129	Mr President, I can tell you one thing: I can already tell Mr Futselaar that he could jeopardize the derogation if he changes things in it. Because that's the balance! I have also indicated during the general consultation that it is not the case that the margins to change them are infinite. I will tell Mr Futselaar that message already. I did so during the AO and I will do so when he asks to speak to each other in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u130	Mr President, I would like to make a personal statement. Mr Grashoff spoke of sizzling. There was no question of that. I said out loud that we just discussed that report, at least the note, in the AO, because we'd downloaded it all from the Internet. That's where it was just published.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u131	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u132	Mr President, I had another point, but I must also say something about it. That's not how it works! It's a concept program and we could of course download it from the Internet. But before the final programme is presented to the European Commission, the Chamber should simply be able to discuss it. And Mr Geurts knows that very well. Mr President, I have now forgotten about my own question and my own. It's something! No, I've got it again: the warm clean-up of pig farming. We asked questions about it in the debate on the declaration of government. We're doing that again, just like GroenLinks and the SP. During the debate on the declaration of government, we tabled a motion asking the government to effectively withdraw the animal rights associated with this warm clean-up. The Prime Minister's answer was: yes, that is in line with how we see it as a cabinet. The Minister now also says that it is in line with the way the cabinet sees it, but could she give a new opinion on that motion? We understand that that is the intention, but we would also like to agree with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u133	I believe that during the debate on the declaration of government, the Prime Minister indicated that the motion could be better held, because there is going to be another discussion on how we are going to implement it. We're just getting started. We are hard at work, but we really have to make a move in that discussion. I would therefore give exactly the same judgment as the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u134	That's what we're sorry about. Anyway, we'll hold the motion again. Mr President, my second question concerns a question that has been partly answered in writing. I can ask hundreds of thousands of questions about animal welfare in livestock farming, but I thought I would concentrate it now on one important point, the enormous mortality rates for goats, pigs and calves. I asked the Minister what she thought was acceptable. It does what all its predecessors have done in writing: I am in agreement with the sector and they are making a plan. Surely we need to be able to identify and agree on what we consider acceptable or not. I mean, that's got to be standardized, right? Is the Minister prepared, if not in a letter today, to think about where she wants to come up with all the plans that the sector is making?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u135	I think it is most important that in this debate the sector itself says: we need to get to work on this. I can also see that this is happening. I have already given examples of this in the written reply. We can set all kinds of standards here, but if nothing happens in practice, it is in my view a missed opportunity. I would rather use all my energy to make the sector itself realise that it really needs to take steps here. That is what is happening, and we are in agreement to see what improvements can be made to reduce this mortality. The plans that are now in place, and what is about to happen in practice, are just fine examples of how we can tackle this issue in a way that is also being carried out. We do not settle this with a standard from The Hague. This is what we do with the commitment of the sector, which itself says: this cannot be done, we need to change some things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u136	Mr President, may I make another half-interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u137	You look very nice...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u138	She's very good at that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u139	...but you're at your max. A dangerous remark, I realize, in these times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u140	I promise I will behave for the rest of the debate. Or not. Mr President, my question to the Minister is whether she realises that if the government does not clarify what it thinks is moral and what it really needs to come out of, what livestock farming is going to meet, the pressure on animal welfare and the discussion about it, which this minister also says, as well as a number of parties in this Chamber, it feels a little like the farmers are being cornered...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u141	A little shorter, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u142	You're right. Does she realize you're not gonna settle that discussion with that? If you do not predict and achieve concrete results in the future, then the debate on animal welfare will not be lighter. Does the Minister realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u143	Yes, but does Mrs Ouwehand realize that this is how I give back the question that we can meet all kinds of standards here, but if they are not carried out from within the sector, if we do not feel that that is the steps we really need to take, then we can say very toughly that we have set a standard, but that does not change so much in practice. I'd rather take it from below. Then we can also organize together the support for the measures that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u144	I think the Minister had come to the end of the "agriculture" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u145	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u146	Then I have one more question. It's actually in line with that support. I started my first speech on mutual understanding and respect for our farmers, growers and fishermen. They face an important task, even when it comes to various objectives in the areas of climate and environment, for example. I have proposed to take the initiative for a "farmer's week." I have read that this proposal is very appealing to the Minister. I'm glad. I'd like to thank her for that. Only then I read that she actually wants to link it to improving the agri-food week we already know. But that is precisely my point, Mr President: that week is already there, and farmers, growers and fishermen do not really feel sufficiently heard. Especially when I see the program, I get it. So my question is for the Minister to take a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u147	It appeals to me because of, as Mrs Lodder also points out, the mutual understanding, but also the image of the sector. I think it is very important that we should be able to implement this. Sometimes there are images that don't add up at all. Then you increase the support base when you show what really happens in practice. That is why Mrs Lodder's proposal appeals to me, but at the same time I am looking for something that will not come up again, which may make the mood for doing so less. I'm just trying to find out if maybe we can get that agri-food week to take place on the farm itself a little bit more, let me put it this way. Is it perhaps an opportunity to achieve Mrs Lodder's goal if we change that? Then it gets more of the meaning of: show what really happens in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u148	I know that the Minister is also making a financial contribution to that week that already exists. I think that various initiatives here are very valuable. Not only that week, but also other business initiatives. So I challenge the Minister to think about it again. That farmyard is important. A number of activities took place there last week, but again, that is not the sense of the sector. This does not raise that respect and mutual understanding to a higher level. I challenge the Minister to think about that. I like to think about that myself, but I think there are also a lot of individual farmers who have ideas about it. When I look at how my mailbox has flooded and also at the responses to social media, I see that there are a lot of ideas in practice. So I'm gonna make that call right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u149	I'd be happy to accept that challenge. But I would also like to put it right back, because I would like to hear those ideas that come to Mrs Lodder's. I think that's the power. I can have all kinds of ideas, but the people who are working on them can do some ideas for me, perhaps through Mrs Lodder. Then I want to see how we can take it with us. Mrs Lodder asked if we could perhaps show a presentation of this at the Floriade. I have indicated in the written reply that I would like to repeat here that we are, of course, prepared to really put something there on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u150	I'll take that challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u152	Thank you. I'm looking at the minister. We've arrived at the "nature" section. I'm looking at the clock. Can the members take one more block until we suspend?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u153	The third block is "food for everyone," Mr. Chairman. That's very appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u154	Exactly. Then we do nature and then suspend for the next block. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u155	Sure. "Working together on nature," it's called my second block. That is also one of my mottos, as I mentioned in the introduction. Nature must be seen as the beating heart, the lungs, the backbone of all the Dutch. They're vital parts. Because nature is the source of clean air, clean drinking water and nutritious food. It's the source of everything that lives. Nature is more than just a place where you can escape our busy existence. That is why it is wise to protect nature, as I say in the direction of Mrs Ouwehand. Nature is also the environment of many farmers and, as I said before, a farmer cannot live without nature. If you consider that more than half of the Netherlands consists of agricultural land, nature cannot do without the farmer. Farmers and nature are often confronted with each other and I want to work to ensure that nature-inclusive agriculture can also take place and that the connection is made. I want to do that with the provinces. The responsibility for land-based nature policy lies with the provinces. Nature is not only important to farmers. Nature lives with a lot of Dutch people. This is also reflected in the enormous commitment of volunteers who are committed to the conservation and improvement of nature. Mr Geurts has already asked for it and I am happy to go into it. Especially today, because today is the Volunteer's Day. I would also like to thank all the volunteers in general and during this debate the volunteers who are committed to nature in particular for all their efforts. The green volunteers, with their work for land-based organisations, make an important contribution to the maintenance of our landscape and agricultural collectives to the grazing bird management. These volunteers have been playing an important role in collecting nature information for years. This gives me the opportunity to follow trends, to adjust policy if necessary and to report to your Chamber, the EU and international treaty organisations. I'd like to keep it that way. Not only because of the information itself, but also because this is a good way to keep many Dutch people involved in nature. In March of this year, green volunteer organisations, the provinces and the then Ministry of Economic Affairs signed a manifesto called The Power of the Green Volunteer. In doing so, we join forces to make the support of green volunteers future-proof. The development of the manifesto is in full swing. The suggestion made by D66 to come together with entrepreneurs, knowledge institutions and others to a green deal of circular agriculture is only in this respect. I share the importance of making the cycles more close for the sustainable development of agriculture. If associations of entrepreneurs or individual entrepreneurs have good and innovative proposals for improving legislation, possibly in the form of a green deal, they can report to me and I will see if we can remove the bottlenecks. This also fits in with the approach of the government-wide Circular Economy programme, which focuses on removing obstacles to innovation and sustainability. The Biomass and Food transition agenda, which will be delivered in January, also addresses this issue. Nature and biodiversity are under pressure worldwide. In a small country like the Netherlands with many inhabitants nature is always vulnerable. In the Netherlands, for example, there are fewer insects, fewer soil animals in the North Sea and fewer farmland birds. At the same time, there are also bright spots. The Plan Bureau for the Environment reports that biodiversity is recovering on land and in the Rhine Delta. This is due to policies aimed at more and better nature, reports the Planning Bureau. That gives hope, but there can be no question of leaning back. We need a better balance between agriculture, food production, fisheries and nature. Because a strong nature with sufficient species wealth also has the resilience to realise the challenges of the energy transition and climate change, for example by storing CO2 or by absorbing the consequences of climate change by, for example, water storage in the event of rain pollution. Much remains to be done to assure us of strong and rich nature, tomorrow and many generations later. And the willingness to work on it is there. Think of the statement by Driebergen, which I now mention but which you also mentioned widely yesterday. And think of the pulse trawl, which is gentler with the sea floor and which reduces fuel consumption. Mr Grashoff asked if I would be prepared to draw up a plan for the CO reduction target. Because in the coalition agreement a climate ambition for the agriculture and horticulture sector is set out. There should be an indicative reduction of 3.5 megatons of CO equivalent emissions. I am preparing for the climate and energy agreement in which the CO reduction target for agriculture, nature and food is further developed. In the very short term, the Minister for Climate Policy will inform your Chamber further about the approach and planning of the climate and energy agreement. The involvement of the House of Representatives will also be discussed. The PvdA asked me whether I would like to work to persuade agriculture and nature organisations to reach a national agreement on nature and agriculture. As I just said, nature and agriculture are linked. Therefore, bridging differences between nature and agriculture is a top priority. Fortunately, many developments are already taking place in this area, such as the fact that additional resources have been made available in the coalition agreement, namely the funds invested in agricultural nature management for the purposes of grazing crops, and in the Delta Plan for the restoration of biodiversity. If it is clear what steps can be taken with these and other developments, we can see whether a national agreement has added value. The VVD has asked how I am going to use the 275 million from the government agreement for investments in water and nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u156	Mr Moorlag has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u157	Mr. Chairman. I'm by nature an optimist. One of my life mottos is: life is beautiful, as long as you look the right way. I notice that the Minister is doing the same, because at the beginning of this debate she mentioned a Frisian natural company where she had been. Yeah, if you look that way, you'll just be happy. But in order for such a company to be so far away that it is not the exception in the sector, but that it becomes a measure, is it necessary for parties to be brought together with a sense of urgency in order to reach a large and coherent agreement? I see here in this debate that we are talking in isolation on many points. And often the differences are magnified. It would be a good thing for me if the Minister were to bring parties together with a sense of urgency and yet strive for such an agreement, and that she did not come up with the answer that she 'wanted to see it'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u158	An agreement is never an end in itself. An agreement has to be about getting a real agreement with the parties on which direction you want to go. I am already having conversations with the various parties. I do this not only because I want to do so, but also because even LTO, for example, points out that we must also continue to adapt to the developments that are coming to us and in which we have challenges as a sector. Perhaps Mr Moorlag has heard the same thing. LTO says that we simply want to work with it. So there are also steps being taken by the organisations themselves. We are already in the process of initiating plans ourselves. I have just mentioned a number of things. I'd like to see how that's gonna work out. I am not convinced in advance that we need to conclude an agricultural agreement, where a great deal of time goes into all kinds of discussions with each other whether it should be left-wing, right-wing or something. Let's just make good use of the energy that's already there. If Mr Moorlag does not think it is enough, then we can see what else is needed to make agriculture really ready for future developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u159	I also took a position on this in the media earlier this week. A radio station wanted to make an item about it and called all kinds of organizations. The broadcast was cancelled because they couldn't find an opponent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u160	Yes, but then we don't have to have an agreement either, Mr Moorlag, because then everyone obviously knows what to do!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u161	No, no, not an opponent of concluding such an agreement. My appeal to the Minister is: grab the momentum and have the sense of urgency and difficulty to come to an agreement on agriculture and nature by analogy with the energy agreement. Is the Minister prepared to admit that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u162	I have tried to point out that I understand Mr Moorlag's intentions and that they also largely overlap with my own intentions. I recognize quite a bit of Mr Moorlag's speech in what I have just said. But I just want to start using the energy that is already there. I'm not doing that alone. It would be too much honor if I were to draw that towards me, because parties themselves are already trying to see what is needed to move forward. I just want to give some space to that first. I don't know if we're gonna need a big deal for that later. I really think it's too early to say that now. But I want to focus my energy now on everything that is already happening, instead of setting up a lot of things that we still have to have a lot of discussions about. Mr. Chairman. The VVD had asked questions about the 275 million from the government agreement for investments in water and nature. With this 275 million, a strong boost can be given that will permanently improve the quality of nature and water. These goals are closely linked, because nature has a great interest in good water quality. Together with my colleague from IenW I am working on the implementation of this. We are thinking here of encouraging drug residues and other substances not to enter drinking water, reducing fertilization on the environment, working with farmers to improve the quality of nature and giving an impetus to the nature and water quality of large waters. We will soon inform your Chamber of the plans we will develop together on this issue. I do not know exactly what Mr van IenW said about this during the WHO Water; I know that she was also questioned about this. But this doesn't have to take too long. So I think the Chamber can certainly be informed about this in the first quarter of 2018. The SGP asked me to use some of these resources to co-finance adapted field management for the peat meadow areas. An integrated approach for the peat meadow areas to halt the peat degradation and thus reduce CO emissions and improve water quality through appropriate management is particularly appealing to me. There are also opportunities to strengthen nature, for example the meadow birds. If there are concrete plans from the region for investment in such an approach, I welcome it. I shall therefore look at possible co-financing from the cabinet's investments in nature and water quality and regional challenges. However, it is still too early to make any concrete commitments, but you can taste my positive basic attitude. Mr President, then the meadow birds. This subject also lives widely in this Chamber. I work closely with the provinces in the protection of meadow birds. That is a subject which is quite rightly the subject of your Chamber's attention. For example, Mr Grashoff wrote an own-initiative paper on this subject and Mrs Dik-Faber tabled a motion on this subject. Mr Grashoff asked what my starting point is. My first goal is for the population of meadow birds to be stable. I would like to use the 40 million transferred from the first to the second pillar for grazing and field bird management. I have made agreements on this with the provinces in line with Mrs Dik-Faber's motion. Mr Grashoff asked whether the funds could be used as early as 2018. He indicated that although the funding is in 2020, you can already submit plans for this. I have checked that and I can promise that in 2018 we can start with both additional management and equipment as well as with experiments for meadow and field birds. So that's gonna work. In addition, I finance improvement plans for agricultural collectives. For example, I want to give farmers more space to protect meadow and field birds. Making agreements with the provinces is important, because they have the responsibility to implement this policy. I do not choose to impose these objectives on provinces, landowners and users, as Mr Grashoff proposes in his own initiative paper. Decentralised policies are not in line with such a relationship between the Empire and the provinces. In my view, an approach aimed at cooperation with entrepreneurs is much more promising to achieve results. I also recognise the importance of national coordination. That is why I took the initiative to fund a national platform for farmland birds. So the government invests, but also scientists, conservationists and agricultural organisations take responsibility, and I appreciate that. Following the results of a German study on the development of insect populations, they have taken the initiative to achieve a joint Deltaplan Biodiversity Recovery. GroenLinks, D66 and the Christian Union have rightly called for attention to be paid to this initiative. I cannot, of course, anticipate the content of that plan, but I would like to talk to the initiators. From a substantive commitment, I will see whether I can facilitate the implementation of the delta plan in any way. Mr President, this was my block of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u163	There are still questions. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u164	Thank you for the sympathetic approach of the delta plan. In this context, I asked a question about any additional monitoring. The hearing we organised here in the Chamber showed that the Netherlands has small holes in monitoring soil diversity and small insects. Is that also part of the "wanting to facilitate" or whatever you said?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u165	This is a very specific point. I should check that out. I can come back to this in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u166	Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions on meadow birds and for her commitment on the use of resources from 2018. I'm very happy about that; very good. In addition, the Minister states that it is her goal to stabilise the population. Now there is a WUR report with a very clear scenario study. "Stabilizing" is a bit of a complicated word, because at what level? Is that at the current level, or is that at a level slightly higher than the current level or at half of it? That's a very relevant thing, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u167	"Stabilizing" means at least it doesn't go down. That's what I mean by "stabilize."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u168	So it's about 30,000 breeding pairs, because that's about it right now. If that's the answer for the moment, I can get out of it for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u169	Thank you. I'm looking at the clock and I suggest we suspend until 8:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u170	Before I give the floor to the Minister for the last part of her answer, Mr Grashoff has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u171	Mr President, I would like to ask you if you would allow another interruption, a sixth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u172	In your case, I would have expected that question, because you were indeed through your interruptions. Let me be a coulant. For the food quality and region cubes, I will give you one more interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u174	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u175	What a nice president we have tonight. Mr. Chairman. We've all just had a good meal, and now I'm also coming to the block of "food for everyone." I already mentioned it in my introduction: I am committed to safe, affordable, healthy and tasty food for everyone, produced in a sustainable way. This is a task that is national, but also European and global. I aim at food consumption and production at both national and European levels that contribute more to health, climate, nature and earning capacity. I see many examples of social initiatives, such as urban agriculture and the sale of local products. This also contributes to a better appreciation of food. To that energy and strength in society, I would like to link the commitment from the government. Strengthening resilience can also be sought in new forms of agriculture. Short chains such as farmer-citizen initiatives or urban agriculture bring food production closer to consumers. You often hear it when it comes to food: the world's population is growing strongly and the number of mouths that need to be fed. In 2050 there are at least 10 billion people, who are on average more prosperous and will live even more in large cities. Then where did the food come from? How did our menu come together? And who will be able to produce this best? At the same time, the effects of climate change endanger global agricultural production. Production areas are increasingly facing extreme weather conditions such as drought, floods and tropical storms. It is up to all of us to find solutions together. With its distinctive knowledge, technology and high-quality products, the Dutch agri- and food sector is ideally able to contribute to a sustainable and safe food security for the growing world population. As the Netherlands, we can also be proud of what we have to offer in terms of technology and innovation, including to the rest of the world. Not only our goods, but also our knowledge is of high export value and contributes to societal challenges. I want to work to boost the export of our leading knowledge and technology and to further strengthen cooperation with other countries in the field of agriculture. I hope to see some members of your Chamber in 2018 at the international Grüne Woche in Berlin. I've heard a lot of stories about it and I'm glad to see it myself. However, there is not only an economic opportunity in this. There is also a responsibility to worry about the inequality and availability of healthy, affordable and tasty food in other countries. It's nice if exports of knowledge and innovation fit in with societal challenges. I will also seek cooperation on this issue with my colleague, the Minister for Development Cooperation, Mrs Kaag. With my commitment, I also focus on promoting the Dutch agri- and nature policy. These include market access, market preservation, further strengthening of the market position and sustainable, tasty and safe food that is accessible to all. I'm getting to the food safety block. As a consumer, you must be able to trust that what comes on the market and is in the supermarket is safe. Any risk to the safety of our food, fripronil, avian flu, we have unfortunately all experienced it recently, and it is a bad impression for the sector, even if only a few are blamed or if there is pure bad luck. There are many initiatives: short chains and chains that charge a fair price for the product, whether produced sustainably or not, combating food waste and stimulating more sustainable production and consumption, as in the case of the Green Protein Alliance. And by the food chain, I mean everyone, from primary producers, chains such as food industry and retail, to final consumers. Consumers also have a role to play here. We spend only a small part of our income on food, while food is of enormous value. An example of a good initiative in the region mentioned in particular in the coalition agreement is the FoodValley. I heard that several times yesterday. With this region, the government wants to take steps and, together with other regions, learn how to move towards a more sustainable and healthier food system. The SP has asked how I look at the relationship between affordable food and a sustainable chain and whether I am willing to look at the possibility of a ban on the sale of basic products, such as milk, below the purchase price. I have just indicated to Mr Futselaar how I see it. The debate on the market position and the fair price for food must be conducted both nationally and at European level. As part of the reform of the CAP, the position of the farmer in the chain will need to be strengthened, largely according to the recommendations of the Agricultural Markets Task Force, led by Mr Veerman. I believe in more cooperation between farmers and gardeners; in this way their market position can be strengthened, including in negotiations with supermarkets. The Christian Union has asked me to draw up a food agenda. As you know, the previous cabinet has drawn up and implemented a food agenda on the basis of the WRR opinion Towards a food policy. For specific ambitions and goals of this agenda, agreements were made at the Food Summit at the beginning of this year with a large number of parties from the different links of the chain. I would like to build on this in the years to come. In response to D66's question on food policy and prevention, I would like to discuss with my colleague Mr Blokhuis how food policy and prevention policy can be linked, particularly for children living in poverty. We share the responsibility for healthy and sustainable food production and consumption. Among other things, this includes eating according to the Disk of Five and promoting the consumption of fruit and vegetables and being accessible to everyone. Mrs Dik-Faber also called for attention to be given to combating food waste, one of the Sustainable Development Goals, and an issue which was included in the government agreement that, where necessary, more scope should be given to supermarkets and restaurants to donate surpluses to food banks. Since 2014, there has been a cooperation agreement between the Association of Dutch Food Banks and the Alliance Sustainability Food on the binding theme: combating food waste. Various obstacles experienced by companies have already been solved. In addition to the existing agreements, I will check whether there is a need for more space and whether this can be achieved legally and practically. I will also, together with the food banks and the Alliance, examine the extent to which the agreements made at national level are sufficiently familiar, the obstacles experienced and the types of solutions that are being addressed. In this way, we are also trying to encourage that what we want to do with each other, namely to combat food waste, can actually be done in practice at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u176	I would like to thank the Minister for her warm interest in combating food waste. My specific question is when will the Chamber be informed. I had another question on the next point, but I will do so in the second half of the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u177	I have just told the officials that we are going to make a lot of money at the beginning of 2018, but I will very soon start looking for the conversation with the Association of Dutch Food Banks and the Alliance, so that we can go together with them to see what matters we have to deal with. At the same time, we also have issues at European level. Last week, I went to the waste disposal plant in Veghel. Mrs Dik-Faber is undoubtedly familiar with this waste disposal plant; a very nice initiative. There I also spoke with the Commissioner, Mr Andriukaitis, for example, about the 'at least sustainable to' aspects. People see it on coffee, rice and even water: at least preserved until. I have offered the Commissioner a basket of products to show that these products all have such a date. As a result, it is as if they are no longer sustainable after that date, but you may have doubts as to whether they are. In fact, a lot of products are even more sustainable. Then it's more of an advice at the time. So I'm going to do that at different levels. On the one hand, I really do this locally: how can we combat this food waste more locally by linking the chains more closely? On the other hand, we really want to ensure at a more fundamental level, at European level, that we reduce as much as possible matters that can lead to food waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u178	I'm glad. Mr President, I would like to use the second half of my interruption on the previous point, the Food Agenda. It is important for my group. There was indeed a food agenda from the previous cabinet, based on the WRR report. I note that we have never actually discussed that report in the Chamber. That still has to happen. I can imagine that this Minister also needs to see where she wants to put her own accents on this food agenda. We have just talked about food waste. I can imagine that it will have a place, but there are also new social issues that are emerging with greater urgency lately, such as combating climate change. The Minister said 'I will continue with the existing food agenda', but my specific question is whether there should be a tooth or a different emphasis. What's her coloring on that diary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u179	I've already indicated that I'm not just doing what's already there. I say I would like to build on that. This already indicates that I want to take further steps in this regard. Let me do it this way. I have already indicated that I will also, of course, engage in discussions and see what obstacles, bottlenecks and such aspects are still present. I would like to promise that I will send a letter to the Chamber in which, on the one hand, I will indicate the bottlenecks and obstacles that may still exist so that, for example, food from the supermarkets can return to food banks or similar. I am also going to look at the initiatives that we want to develop even more in this area. We're just gonna send that to the Chamber in one letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u180	Actually, we're doing interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u181	Then may I make another interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u182	Another interruption? Always. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u183	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I am extremely pleased that the Minister is going to inform us about combating food waste, but there was also a food agenda from the previous cabinet. That food agenda wants to expand the minister further. I think this is about food waste, but also about a lot of other things. What emphasis does the Minister himself intend to place on this? I am thinking not only of food waste, but also, for example, of the climate issues and so on. The Food Agenda is a broader agenda than just combating food waste. I'm curious to see the Minister's accents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u184	It is not true that I speak only of food waste. I meant that in that letter I would give a broader look at what we want to do on this subject. On the one hand, there is a WRR report, which, of course, contains all the necessary things. I will build on that, but I would like to say that in a letter that goes to the Chamber I am going to give a broader look at what we are all going to take up in the field of food.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u185	Thank you for this commitment. I'm actually doing an invitation to ourselves, to the Chamber, to discuss that WRR report with each other for once. 'Cause that's never happened before. I think I'm just going to propose that at the procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u186	The Chamber is about its own agenda. I always look forward to that, as you can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u187	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u188	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA asked if I wanted to lead the change to a greener production of food. As I mentioned earlier, the Netherlands plays an important role worldwide in the development of knowledge and innovation aimed at achieving sufficient food and biomass for other purposes. I want to make a contribution to ensure that everyone has sufficient and healthy food, while at the same time there is room to produce green raw materials that can replace fossil raw materials. We need to be more resource efficient and smarter with our raw materials, products and services. I am committed to working with the sector on a transition to a more circular economy. Many parties can and want to play a role in this transition: companies, governments, knowledge institutions, civil society organisations and many others. The raw materials agreement marks the starting point to work together. In early 2018, I will present the Transition Agenda Biomass and Food in this context. Mr. Chairman. I come to my last block: region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u189	There are no more questions about the previous block. Oh, here comes Mrs Ouwehand, who undoubtedly also wants an additional interruption. You were actually already at your max of five, so here we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I was walking in the walkways, I heard we had gotten one. Thank you. Does the transition agenda the Minister is talking about include concrete plans to reduce the consumption of animal proteins?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u191	That transition agenda is broad and is also about the vegetable side, but the goal of reducing an sich? It is more about stimulating the consumption of plant proteins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u192	Okay, the latter is of course good, but the analysis of what is a healthy and sustainable food pattern in all respects shows that in the rich West we simply consume too much protein, especially too much animal protein. The advice is to bring the protein intake back anyway and for what's left, we need to go from animal to plant. Is that on the retina with the minister? Does she intend to include that in the transition agenda, or should we seek other channels if we would encourage her to do so? Because that's what we want, as the Minister feels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u193	I can see exactly what Mrs Ouwehand is trying to encourage me to do. Let me put it this way: the transition agenda comes to the Chamber in a reasonable time. In that context, we can really talk more broadly about this issue. Mr. Chairman. Then the point of the region. As I indicated, the cabinet has appealing ambitions for cooperation between the Empire and the region. Just as the spokesmen of the Christian Union, the PvdA, the CDA and the SGP have indicated, I see opportunities to make progress in regional challenges in the coming period and thus contribute to, for example, the regional economy, employment and viability. Room for regional customization is important. Urban areas are different from rural areas and the challenges in the BES islands differ from those in the FoodValley. In cooperation with the region, policy goals of the Empire are achieved faster and more effectively. I am happy to contribute to good cooperation in and with the regions. The government agreement includes a multiannual total of EUR 950 million for regional declarations. I want an accessible instrument that fits in with the challenges and opportunities in the region and regional DNA. We do not want to create unnecessary bureaucracy. I am in charge of this, in consultation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The stakes are wide and affect many departments, including my own department. I am pleased with the great energy I already see in the region to work with the Empire for the regional challenges. I have received many invitations and letters from all over the country. It goes without saying that I do not have much to say about the implementation of this budget. The ministries concerned shall establish a balancing framework with criteria for the implementation and use of the 950 million and regional deals. These include criteria such as the connection of national tasks and regional objectives, co-financing and public-private cooperation. These are tasks which are beyond the capacity of the region. In principle, we do not want to fill gaps in the policy budgets of specialist departments. I can say that part will be devoted to the six tasks identified in the coalition agreement: the nuclear problem, the BES islands, Eindhoven, Rotterdam-South, ESTEC and Zeeland. That's a colourful collection of subjects. We are working on these issues with priority and we are implementing them in partnership with these regions. The cabinet has decided that a substantial part of the budget will be devoted to other regional deals. This is also in line with the wishes expressed by organisations such as VNO-NCW, the G32, the K6 shrinkage regions, the P10 rural communities, IPO and VNG. I would like to look at ways of linking other funding flows to these contributions, for example the flows from Invest-NL, EU funds or professional policy resources. With regional deals, we can start a more structural movement. This also calls for results-oriented, coherent agreements with the parties concerned, which are clearly broader than just agreements on financial resources. I will inform your Chamber in a letter about the implementation of the budget for regional tasks, regional deals and the six priority tasks. I will also deal with the criteria and the procedure for selecting initiatives. Mr Geurts made a number of specific suggestions. He talked about the importance of preserving the old crafts for our cultural history. He also proposed to make the disposal of debris cheaper by using it for infrastructure nearby. He also advocated the realization of the World Food Center at the FoodValley. The cabinet wants to use the funds for regional tasks to some extent for regional deals. Those deals should be in line with the challenges in the region, linking us to our national challenges. So that goes bottom-up, in line with regional wishes. Although I appreciate the specific suggestions made by Mr Geurts and Mr Bishop for the regional envelope, it is a little early to go into this in detail. As I have said, I come with a letter on the frameworks and criteria. Then I look forward to the proposals from the region with interest. I also share the hope expressed by the CDA in relation to the realization of the World Food Centre. From my department there is also involvement in this initiative. If, as Mr Geurts and Mr Bishop pointed out, there is a need for these initiatives from the regions, then they can be submitted. This can be done after I have communicated the frameworks to the Chamber and, above all, to the regions and made the selection criteria clear. This can therefore be in line with the points raised by Mr Geurts. The PvdA specifically asked about the shrinking regions and whether they could be funded. My fellow BZK executives are primarily responsible for the policy of shrinking regions and border regions. It's not with me. It's with them. From my directing role in the regional envelope and the regional deals, I think it is important that we also pay attention to the regions outside the big cities. This cabinet is there for the whole of the Netherlands. Zeeland, for example, has been specifically named as one of the six regional tasks in the coalition agreement. My expectation is that this type of region will also be looked at, but I do not want to anticipate things in this area either. I'm also gonna put the ball in the regions myself. When the regions have good plans, in accordance with the criteria we have communicated, we will look at them and consider them. As I have said, I will inform your Chamber of this by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u194	Did that bring you to the end of your story?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u195	Yeah, the last block is finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u196	Thank you. I call Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u197	With so many promises by the Minister, it will be difficult to come up with motions in a moment. Anyway, that's a job we'll have as MPs. I just heard some surprising news about the Minister's contribution. If I have properly added up the amounts for the regional fund, I will amount to 900 million. The minister mentioned 950 million. Well, then I'm curious as to where the 50 million came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u198	That is very sharp from Mr Geurts. There is indeed a series in the coalition agreement that adds up to 900 million. I can explain it all now, but let me say that because of the system of finance, it has been indicated that it is still going on and that this means that a total of 950 million is available. It's not often that finance communicates that kind of fluke. I can tell Mr Geurts that we were pleased to be surprised in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u199	The Ministry of the Interior has so far been responsible for the shrinkage problem. However, the government agreement states that this minister is responsible for coordinating regional policy. I would like to comment on the shrinking regions. I believe that the declaration meets all the conditions that the Minister mentions. There is a challenge that goes beyond the scale of the region. The restructuring of the top-down regions requires incredibly much resources. There's co-financing. Parties are working together. I know, for example, that at the Eemsdelta 40 parties work together on a living and living plan. In view of the fact that it is only 3% of the budget and the fact that it is really large regions, I would say: Minister, be more generous, also to the constructive opposition. I would very much appreciate a more firm commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u200	I'm just gonna find out what kind of commitment you'd like to hear. In my view, I have indicated that the cabinet does not want to use this for urban regions, but really for the 'rural regions', or the regions outside the urbanised areas. This obviously includes shrinking regions. But it is quite clear from this region's system that the plans must emerge from the region itself. So, as The Hague, we are not going to hang the money on something and indicate that the money must be spent in a certain way. The regions themselves must come up with good plans. This is indeed subject to a number of conditions. I call co-financing, public-private. It must be an transcendent point. It should not be a hole that could be filled by a department of commerce. So there really has to be an agenda. Mr Moorlag can rest assured that if there is a good agenda, we will take a serious look at it. So it's really bottom-up. It is not The Hague that is going to decide for a moment: this is good for you as a region. These regions must submit their own plans. We're going to judge them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u201	This is a task which is, in fact, completely depoliticized. If you look at these regions, it's really a no-brainer. In Limburg, in Zeeland, in Groningen, in Drenthe, in those top-down regions, this goes right through all the political movements. All the conditions mentioned by the Minister are met. So a commitment that the shrinking regions can also draw on these resources and that an amount can be earmarked for them, I would appreciate it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u202	It's not a pot to do a particular ear tag. We are going to see if the plans from the regions are plans that we can finance. Mr Moorlag can rest assured that, if there are good plans from the shrinking regions, we will look into them. I am not going to say that this part is for the shrinking regions. No, it's really from the bottom. But I hear Mr Moorlag say: there are good plans. I'll let them send it in in a minute. Then we will also assess it. If they are good plans, they may be eligible for funding. However, the policy for the shrinking regions really lies with the Minister of State. This is about the implementation of the regional envelope in the form of regional deals. Of course, that could be useful. It has to come from below and then we will assess what those plans are like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u203	I have one last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u204	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u205	It is actually a request to answer a question. In my contribution to the debate, I started with the question: how does the Minister wish to be remembered? That was a very serious question, even if you look at the urgency of the task. I would very much appreciate the Minister's reply to that. How does it intend to deal with the constructive opposition in this respect? I do not know if the Minister knows the Groningen proverb 'empty baking, grumpy swimming', but otherwise I would like to clarify it for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u206	It's always complicated to say about yourself how you want to be remembered. I think that's always up to others. They can judge how you will be remembered. However, I have indicated the priorities for me in the policy. I hope that Mr Moorlag has seen or noticed this tonight. On the contrary, I would like to look much more closely at the link between agriculture, nature and the climate forecast we have here, and I think that is very close to Mr Moorlag, rather than facing each other. I think there is often some sort of polarisation between these two camps at the moment. I'm sorry about that. I think it's unnecessary, too. I think we need each other, farmers need nature and nature needs farmers and it doesn't always happen by itself. We also sometimes play a role in this by means of policies, which may not always have been consistently pursued. It is my ambition to show that we are not opposed to each other in this country, but that we can work together in a certain way and also grow towards each other, and that we can see the added value of each other. That is also the task that we all have. There is a social task: the preservation of nature. But it is also about the pride of farming and the hard work of all those people who are working on it day and night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u207	I appreciate the Minister's style. She speaks warm words. The way she speaks also almost feels like a hot bath. But in the end, for the PvdA group, what results are being achieved. It is also a question of what's in it for us as a constructive opposition. I would very much appreciate it if the Minister would do some substantive hand-outs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u208	I think I have indicated that we are going to give much more substance to the general notion that I have just put forward here in the coming period. We are going to have a lot of debates about this in this context, of course, and we are going to fill it out much more: what exactly does it mean? For some parts it's too early, because we're still working on it. I believe that I have announced a whole series of plans and proposals that will come in 2018. But Mr Moorlag may indeed keep to the ambitions that I am going to express in that regard. I also think that we all need to find ways of achieving these ambitions, because the cabinet is not going to do this alone, quite the contrary. We need a lot of other parties, including the Chamber. So if Mr Moorlag comes up with constructive proposals on this point, we will, of course, look at them and take them with us. I am very much looking forward to working with Mr Moorlag, among others, but also with other members of this Chamber, because I believe that this is not so much a task for a cabinet that is sitting here today as it is a task for society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u209	I had asked about the rescue plan for the IJsselmeer fishermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u210	I think I answered that question in writing. On page 1 even, I remember, because I've been looking at it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u211	Then there is the campaign promised to me by the leaders of Security and Justice about 144, because this is only known by 30%. I understand there are 60,000 to 70,000 reports, while in the first year there were over 100,000 reports. It seems that only 30% of the Dutch population know that it is 144. A lot of people think the animal police don't exist anymore. That's very sad. This also turned out yesterday at Stichting AAP, where there was a meeting with the animal police and where two animal policemen were awarded a prize. Several executives, including the VVD, who have been on Justice and Security, were called Security and Justice at that time, as well as directors at EZ, so the part that is now LNV, that there would be a new campaign for the name awareness of 144. I didn't actually get it, even though it was a commitment. Something really needs to be done so that people know that the animal police still exist and that they can just use 144 to call the animal police. That's essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u212	I understand that it is indeed something for which the primary responsibility lies with Justice and Security. I cannot deal with the commitments or agreements of the directors concerned. It's a little complicated. However, I have checked that in the written reply I have also stated whether the number is indeed so unknown. Don't pin me on it, because I'm gonna take it out of my head for a while, but I know there were about 60,000 reports last year at 144. Then I don't think that's very unknown, or there's one person who does all these reports, but that seems a little strong to me. I don't find 60,000 reports on such a number unknown.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u213	That's right, Madam President, if I may. The first year there were over 100,000 reports. People think the animal police no longer exist, because that's how it's put in the media. That's not true. Animal police exist and even grow above 200. The number of 150 doesn't add up either, which has been mentioned by your ministry. There's 209 of them already. The animal police exist. They're here. It seems that more than 60% of the Dutch population do not know that it is 144. A lot of people think it's 114 and not 144. A lot of people think it doesn't exist anymore. That's what research shows. It's very essential. It's something the government gave the animals, and then it has to be done right. You can't say, "Okay, we'll call it into life and then we'll figure it out." I do think this is really a task for the government. I come myself with a song about 144. I'm gonna bring that out soon. With carnival, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u214	Mr Graus, what is your specific question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u215	There would be a campaign, which was also promised to me, about the reputation of 144. Those are those short movies the government broadcasted from 2012. They were very successful. At that time, the number of reports was much higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u216	We are going to listen to what the Minister has to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u217	This really is my colleague's policy. I do not want to be very faint about this, but I find it a little complicated to make commitments in a colleague's policy area. The temptation is sometimes great to do that for someone else, but as I said: I do not think it is unknown. I even found 60,000 reports impressive, but in a wrong way impressive, where I thought: boy, there are so many reports of animal suffering. Perhaps the action of Mr Graus himself will also help to increase the reputation of the name, although of course I do not know his song yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u218	Maybe it'll be a December hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u219	This is my last interruption today. I also had a question about the Animal Welfare Team. This may also be stated in the written reply. I gotta tell you, I'm doing more than just this wallet. I still have a question about 144. That's the last thing I want to say. We've always had a Secretary of State during the last six months, and Secretary of State is not on the Council of Ministers. This is a Minister of Animal Welfare and I have always argued very strongly that there should be a Minister of Animal Welfare. But I do think the Minister can pick it up on the Council of Ministers. The Minister sits there with the Minister of Justice and Security and then it is a small effort to say: that is a commitment to Member Graus of the States-General; what is the position now? It's hard for me because I'm on this committee. I will also put it to Mrs Helder, my colleague, but it is very strange that a Member of Parliament should be promised something but that it should not be done. That's weird, because we have to be able to rely on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u220	I'm afraid the Minister can't do very much with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u221	Mr President, I share the view that commitments must be honoured, but in this case I do not know what the commitment was because it was not made by us. I therefore ask you, Mr Graus, to pass it on to Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u222	I am looking at the members, because this brings us to the end of the Minister's first term. I have one more question for the Minister. Three amendments have been tabled. Do you want to respond to that in this period or do you say "no, I will do so in the second term"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u223	I would, if necessary, like to do so in this time-limit if the Court appreciates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u224	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u225	I'm gonna grab the set. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 11, by Mr Grashoff. He asked for EUR 10 million to be released for the roll-out of underwater drainage, in short. The underwater drainage is a technique that, as the coalition agreement also indicates, can contribute to smarter land use. Underwater drainage also contributes to the reduction of CO emissions in the Netherlands. The government agreement announced that there would be a national climate and energy agreement and that additional resources would be made available for this purpose. I would ask you to look at this technique in this light and to await the plans for the climate and energy agreement. We're working on that. We're working hard on it, but we're gonna make a bigger plan for what's gonna happen. Moreover, the coverage of the amendment is found in the increase in non-tax revenue on Article 6. In Article 6, these revenue relates in particular to withdrawals from budgetary reserves. However, this revenue is necessarily subject to expenditure of the same size, which means that there is no room for such expenditure. The increase in this estimate of revenue actually means a higher withdrawal from the budget reserve than is necessary for the expenditure for which those reserves have been established. For these two reasons, I would advise against this amendment. Then there is the second amendment tabled by Mr Grashoff. That amendment aims at releasing an amount of 5 million for 2018 to set up large-scale pilot sites for integrated plant protection. As we have also exchanged in the debate, my aim is also to work more on integrated plant protection. This means that growers will use even more sustainable and non-chemical alternatives and low-risk means. I therefore welcome Mr Grashoff's idea. There are currently several pathways, including the Pilot System Approach Sustainable Crop Protection and the Knowledge Impulse Green Plant Protection. But these pathways are still in an early stage and will only produce results in the coming period. I would like to explore, in consultation with stakeholders, what is the best way to make these results more widely available and thereby also contribute to achieving our common goals. The coverage of the amendment is the same as we just had. For the same reasons, therefore, I must advise against this amendment with a view to its coverage. There are already pilots and everything has been put in motion. Hence the judgment "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u226	First of all, let's talk about cover. It is based on an analysis by the Court of Auditors earlier and which, by the way, has led it to the Chamber with quite a bit of aplomb. In the meantime, I have been able to get through the discussion with the departments. What I will do is, at least in terms of coverage, to look for discussion with the Court of Auditors itself. For here must apply: someone is right! I think that is very important and I can imagine that even the Minister is interested in the Court's possible right, because then she would have a few tens of millions more. So that's what I'll do. If the Minister and her department's reasoning is correct, then I will either withdraw the amendments or adjust them in such a way as to provide them with a different coverage. However, I appreciate the Minister's positive approach to the content of the two amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u227	Good. With the third amendment, Mr Wassenberg has put me in a dilemma. The aim of this amendment is to release 1 million ECU for the establishment of a national knowledge platform for the promotion of animal-free research methods. My predecessor has already informed your Chamber of the state of development of an animal-free research method. He also described a number of initiatives to become a frontrunner in animal-free research methods in 2025. There has also been work on a plan of approach transition animal-free innovations. I have already indicated that I will inform the Chamber about this at the beginning of 2018. The dilemma lies in the fact that the minister of EZK is looking for cover. As you will understand, that is an attractive perspective, because I can suddenly extend my budget if Mr Wassenberg's amendment is adopted. That's kind of tricky. Now it is also a coincidence that I am sitting in the hallway with Mr Wiebes and that his budget has yet to be drawn up. I am a little afraid that if I left this amendment to the Chamber and it was adopted, our budget would be plundered in reverse by Mr Wiebes. So for this reason, but also for the fact that we are already working on the substance and that I have already indicated that we will come to the Chamber in early 2018 about animal-free innovations, I would like to tell the Chamber that I do not want to recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u228	As far as that coverage is concerned, of course, a difficult cut has been made. Initially, when that budget was submitted, it was just another ministry. Later that cut came, which led to a part of it being in camp A and part of it being in camp B. I'll take another look at the funding. As regards the dilemma you have with regard to the substance, I have spoken at some point with a number of stakeholders, with people who are really closely involved in the development of alternatives to animal testing. They're not even aware of anything. They say: we do not know at all that something like this is going to happen; it seems to us very good that there is such a thing. This amendment could contribute to this. Can the Minister clarify? Can it guarantee that there will be a similar platform and that money will be allocated to it? That is very important, not only that there will be plans, but also that there will really be an overarching platform.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u229	Mr President, I have indicated that I am coming up with a plan of approach to transition animal-free innovations. I can take the idea of the knowledge platform into account, but I'm still gonna come up with that. So it's also a little premature right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u230	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I look at the Members and give the floor to Mr Graus for his second term. Mr. Graus, you have four minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u231	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that phosphates belong to the primary necessities of human and animal life;]] [[also noted that phosphates are becoming increasingly scarce due, inter alia, to depletion of phosphate mines;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from introducing phosphate rights and the phosphate reduction plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that phosphate rights and reduction even destroys well-healthy farms;]] [[calls on the Government to make animal manure, building materials and energy, including scarce primary necessities such as phosphates and minerals, recoverable so that the valuable parts are not lost or considered as waste,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider the application and use of animal manure as a traditional form of circularity, necessary for healthy growth of crops,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that indispensable pollinators are at the beginning of our food cycle;]] [[calls on the government to map the current situation of insects in the Netherlands by means of a so-called zero measurement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-15]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-16]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-17]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u232	This motion is the idea of, and also co-signed by, Barry Madlener, my colleague. Bug friend and bee friend. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current system with painful ear tags is very dierron friendly;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities and alternatives for an animal-friendly identification and registration system for farmed animals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the kicking of an animal is already punishable;]] [[noting that the slaughter of animals for reasonable purposes, including self-defense in the event of an animal attack, is already covered by the penalty exclusion ground;]] [[calls on the Government to criminalise the beating of animals for the purpose of causing pain or injury or to investigate the possibility of criminalisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u233	This motion was co-signed by animal friend and spokesperson Justice and Security Helder, Lilian Helder. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a life-long restraining ban, professional ban, for recidivist animal executioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u234	For the next motion, I once went to the Animal Party for cooperation, a few years ago. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the rights of animals are best guaranteed in the Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u235	And finally. I have also been able to look at the written answer, of course quickly, but I am stuck with that Animal Welfare Team within the NVWA. From the Minister's reply, nothing is going to happen to that. It exists and it's not gonna happen, but I hear other signals. That team is only a couple of FTEs. It's very valuable. They are after, in particular, recidivist animal executioners, serious things. I'm gonna file the motion anyway, as a stick behind the door. Perhaps I'll apprehend her immediately, if the Minister can reassure me. I ran out of interruptions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to maintain the successful but, above all, indispensable Animal Welfare Team within the Dutch Food and War Authority in support of, among other things, the approach of recidivist animal executioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u236	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u237	Thank you, Mr. Graus. I call Mrs Lodders of the VVD. She has seven minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her answers to the first-term questions. Thanks for her vision, too. I have heard her say that mutual respect, understanding and appreciation are important in the broad sense of the concept as I have outlined it. That is also shared by my group. I started the fish stand at the Buitenhof yesterday. The fish stall that almost belongs to the furniture of this house, where I take it for a while from the staff of the Chamber during lunch a cup of squabbling, the minister on his way to this plenary room gets a sandwich of mackerel or the tourists taste of the Dutch new. To catch that fish is of course a lot ahead of schedule. That is what my group meant by mutual understanding, engaging in dialogue. Hence the initiative about the farmer's week. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister has supported the initiative. I like to pick up the glove. I just saw a number of e-mails coming in in my mailbox. The suggestions I get from the sector will be shared with the Minister. The circular economy, the smart use of residuals, offers a lot of opportunities for the future. I have already said that innovation will be the key word in the coming years. Mr De Groot will be tabling a motion on this subject in the near future, which I will join in signing and wholeheartedly supporting. Last year I made a point of precision farming. I have come up with the proposal to open an agri-business window to identify obstructive rules in order to further strengthen precision farming. I am pleased that the Minister is following this line and that she will bring to the attention of the Agro-Street Office one more time. I think this is very important, because the knowledge about these obstructive rules is also present in this sector. I'm going to go to horticulture. I asked for a coordinating role of this minister between the horticultural sector and the various ministries to work on the impulse agenda. The Minister replied to this in writing. However, we have thought that we should table a motion on this point. In fact, it is said by the Minister: this is mainly in the sector. But we all know how important the horticultural sector is for the BV Netherlands. Again, this is not just about horticulture, but about the whole chain. I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch horticultural sector needs a coordinating role of the Minister of LNV to take joint steps in the areas of sustainability, energy transition, infrastructure, modernisation and technological innovations;]] [[invites the Cabinet to consult with the Greenports on the progress of the Greenport 3.0 Impulse Agenda on a regular and proactive basis to strengthen the international top position of the Dutch horticulture sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Lodders, Mr von Martels, Mr De Groot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Graus and Mr Grashoff.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u239	Yes, Mr. Chairman. And you've already discovered that I'm also a co-signator of the motion, so that might be surprising. However, I would like to put a question to the House. In the context of 'come out of your trench' I have signed this motion by Mrs Lodders, because I also see some positive developments in greenhouse horticulture. And the Greenport 3.0 document also gives some very good clues, especially in the climate field. We need things like a heat roundabout in South Holland. This Minister may have to discuss this again with her colleague from Climate Change. What's missing in that Greenport 3.0 is actually the whole story about plant protection products. That's too bad, because greenhouse horticulture can learn a lot from greenhouse horticulture. Because many plant protection products are used in the flowering sector and very little in food production. How does Mrs Lodder feel about that? Isn't that a point we should be recommending in the Minister's attention so that she takes it well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u240	I think that's a very good suggestion. I'd like to pass it on, too. As far as I am concerned, this is not just about plant protection products, but also about water treatment, for example. That too will be addressed by Mr Grashoff. My colleague, Mr Weverling, is a spokesperson in this area. That is why I do not know exactly whether that theme has been named sec in that Greenport 3.0 in that agenda. But I think these are two good points to take with them. Because if that coordinating role is deployed, then pick it up as widely as possible. I shall therefore pass this on to the Minister on behalf of Mr Grashoff. Perhaps she can answer that in her reply. I'm on CRISPR-cas9. It's about the processing technique. The government agreement states that the Netherlands will work at European level to implement and authorise new processing techniques. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, this goes beyond expressing support for the further European approach to this issue. That is what I read back in the written reply. My question to the Minister is: let's have a little bit of a tooth. In addition to the coalition agreement, there is also an approved motion on this point. I would ask the Minister to take the initiative himself and to have an active lobby in Europe to tackle this issue, so that we can see results in the short term. This is certainly inspired by the various topics currently under way and in which a new processing technique can play a role. Mr Geurts will shortly table a motion in which he will argue for the World Food Center in FoodValley to make it a success. I am not going to read the motion; I will leave it to Mr Geurts. I have often argued in favour of marketing our knowledge, expertise and innovations worldwide. This would be a very good tool for picking this up. Hence also the support of the VVD for that motion. Then there are a few other motions that will include my name, but that surprises you. Finally, and then I'm well within time. We discussed the budget with this Minister for the year 2018. The budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality is also welcome; both, I think, will be a budget for a year in which we are not sitting still, because I think we have great ambitions with each other. My group wishes this Minister every success in shaping these ambitions with Parliament. We would very much like to cooperate constructively and with power, because it is a fantastic sector. I wish the Minister every success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u241	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks has the floor. Mr. Grashoff, you have three minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u242	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you very much to the Minister for answering the questions. In part, we have really moved forward, not in part either, but this is always the way things are in this debate. At one point, the meadow birds, I can dismiss a motion that is for the first time in time! That's great if we move this way now. There is still a small world of questions about the implementation of grazing bird management. I would be grateful if the Minister would still be prepared to answer a whole series of questions which I am going to put in writing and possibly go into further detail. Then I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Member States have decided to re-administer the product for five years;]] [[Whereas a resolution was adopted in the European Parliament by a large majority calling for the withdrawal from the use of fertilizers in agriculture within five years, as well as the prohibition of non-agricultural use by the end of this year;]] [[Whereas the Minister has also indicated the need to work on alternatives to satsumas over the next five years;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a concrete phasing-out strategy to limit the use of the substance.]] [[calls on the Government to provide this phasing-out strategy with quantitative targets, a clear timetable and adequate monitoring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since 2000 the number of goats in the Netherlands has almost tripled to 500,000 goats in 2016 and continues to grow rapidly;]] [[noting that the provinces of North Brabant and Gelderland have announced a temporary construction stop for goat farms due to increasing health risks pending national measures;]] [[noting that the Brabant GGD advises not to have habitation in 2 kilometres around goat farms because of the effects on health;]] [[calls on the Government, by means of animal rights or other measures, to limit the growth of goat farming and also to set a distance criterion;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber on this matter before 1 March 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Futselaar and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-25]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Futselaar, Mr Moorlag and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u243	Mr President, my time clock is ticking when you read out the wordings on the support of the motion. In short time, that's tight! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch Food and War Authority is responsible for the detection of manure fraud, but other bodies can also contribute to the detection of manure fraud;]] [[Whereas the exchange of information between the Dutch Food and War Authority and the Regional Information and Expertise Centres can be further improved;]] [[calls on the government to engage in talks with the police regions of East Brabant and Limburg, local authorities and the provincial authorities of North Brabant and Limburg to make further arrangements to strengthen cooperation in the field of the fight against manure fraud, and to inform the Chamber of the results of this discussion,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u244	My nugget is literally breaking. This is unlikely. We have set up the animal police to ensure that animal suffering is dealt with and also to relieve the NVWA of food fraud and that kind of scandal. D66 and GroenLinks actually gave the animal police a bit of a headbeat, because it didn't get 500 but it got stuck at 186. And now you're going to call for the help of the police! I really don't think that's right. Why didn't you leave it that way? Why didn't you leave the animal police? If we had 500 men there, they could have gone after the animal executioners, including the farm animals, because they were for that. They were not only for guinea pigs, as was always said laughable, but also for farm animals. Then you wouldn't have to file this motion now. This is really something... [[Sentence could not be parsed: Al het goeds dat is opgebouwd om zeep helpen en nu met een second-best motie komen!]] I think it's really shameful, I think it's really shameful. I couldn't make such a motion with dry eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u245	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u246	I understand Mr Graus' emotion on the one hand. On the other hand, I have to tell him that we have been getting along quite well lately, even when it comes to claims relating to strengthening the role and capacity of NVWA. I can inform Mr Graus that some of his motions on the animal police will be supported by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u247	Two things. It's true that we hang out a lot. But when it comes to animal police and 144... Party politics almost ruined them. Fortunately, they still exist, they got a beautiful prize yesterday. I find it shameful that party politics is being exercised over the back of animals. I know that as a person you do not contribute, but your group does. I must be able to address you to that. I think you're a good guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u248	Well, that's something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u249	That is as we know Mr Graus: emotion but the heart in the right place. We cannot reverse the past; things have not been done. I support Mr Graus, for example, in his plea to increase the awareness of the number 144.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u250	Thank you, Mr. Grashoff. I call Mr Geurts of the CDA. You have eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u251	Mr. Chairman. As a representative of the people, it is always nice to welcome people to the public gallery. There are entrepreneurs from Bergeijk, under the inspiring leadership of my colleague René Peters. He's a member of parliament for over six months. I've been a Member of Parliament for five years, but he knows his way around this building. That can be said in public. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and indeed her supporters for the answers and also for the input she has given. What everyone doesn't know is that support is going through the night to make sure that we get the answers here. That should also get extra attention. I see the Secretary-General. He can pass the compliments on to his people. I would like to congratulate the Minister for his input and in particular for her warm words to our farmers, growers and fishermen. She's also clearly been involved. I couldn't help it, Mr.... is in line with the text "It's better that you don't promise but don't keep your promises," the same Ecclesiastical chapter, but.................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions about writing off phosphate rights. In the general discussion we had on the Sixth Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive, the Minister promised that we would be clear before or during the budget. In the written answer to questions from Mr Bishop of the SGP, I see that it will come soon. It's about December 31, 2017. After that it is January 1, 2018, I think. We need clarity at that time. So a very compelling appeal to the Minister to give that clarity as soon as possible. I'm glad to be surprised that Finance can magic 50 million. A regional fund of 900 million has suddenly become a fund of 950 million. I think I will be greeted with cheering in the group on Tuesday. I like to learn the trick, but we'll do it after this, because not everyone has to learn that trick, I say. I would also like to thank the Minister for the various commitments. It saves a lot of motions. In any case, I will not be able to get those nine from the PVV, but I managed to come up with two more, together with a number of colleagues. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the world needs 70% more food in 2050 than we are now producing;]] [[whereas we owe it to our stand as an innovative agricultural nation to demonstrate our leading role in global food supply;]] [[Whereas dialogue between the agri-food sector and society needs to be stepped up;]] [[calls on the government to join forces with other governments, knowledge institutions and industry and to make the World Food Center in the Food Valley a joint success,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr Lodders, Mr De Groot and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u252	I come to the second and, I think, final motion for today, at least from the CDA. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more and more agricultural buildings are being left empty and that this emptiness can contribute to crime;]] [[invites the Government to consider whether there are sufficient possibilities to use debris from these buildings for foundation material in construction projects, ground hardening or construction of roads,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Ziegs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u253	I would like to add that this debris arises after the demolition of those buildings. One more point about the old crafts. UNESCO also appreciates our old crafts, because today the miller's craft has been placed on the list of intangible heritage. Apart from the budget, I ask the Minister to talk to the provinces to preserve our old crafts for the Netherlands. I didn't make a motion on that. I have great faith that this Minister is going to make this commitment. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u254	Thank you very much. I call Mr Futselaar. You have four minutes, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I do appreciate the open attitude she has shown today as far as we are concerned. I'm not just saying that. I said that this morning, for example, not to her colleagues from Education in their budget. I think I even have an interruption left. That had never happened to me at Minister Kamp, I can tell you. Mr. Chairman. The SP is filing three motions. I'll come back to the barn fires anyway. The Minister said: it is not unwillingness. I really believe that, but sometimes when you're in the Chamber, when you think something is so important, you have to pronounce it in a motion, just to increase the pressure a little bit. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in its missionary period, the Rutte II Cabinet adopted additional measures (Room 34550-XIII, No. 138) for the prevention of barn fires;]] [[noting that the proposed fire safety measures are further examined for legal feasibility, enforcement and costs;]] [[believes that a new summer of barn fires should be avoided at all costs;]] [[Calls on the Government to endorse the urgency of the approach to barn fires and to send the study on the feasibility of the proposed additional measures to the Chamber as soon as possible and at the latest in spring 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u256	In the first version was the "early spring." I met the Minister by deleting the word "early." I'm on my second motion. We talked about minimum prices. We disagree on that. I believe that at least a small investigation can be carried out. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that supermarkets often stunt with the price of milk, which means loss of income for dairy farmers but hardly profit for individual consumers;]] [[noting that in several countries around us there is a ban on sales below the purchase price;]] [[considers that further sustainability of agriculture requires a milk price that offers prospects for a earning model with a longer-term perspective;]] [[calls on the Government to examine to what extent it is possible and desirable to introduce a ban on sales below the purchase price by law, in the first instance specifically for dairy products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u257	One issue that we did not actually discuss today, and not yesterday, is the problem of smell. That affects I and M, or whatever it's called nowadays, when it comes to the environment. However, since this is specifically about the problem of odours associated with livestock farming, I have decided to table this motion here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residents of large-scale livestock farming areas are increasingly suffering from odour nuisance;]] [[noting that it affects 355 000 households in the immediate vicinity of livestock farms;]] [[Whereas applicable agricultural odour standards allow more nuisance than GGD GHOR's umbrella organisation advises from a health perspective;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan to reduce the odour nuisance caused by the agricultural sector pending the Environment Act and to apply the same smell standards as those applied to industry, in accordance with GMD advice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u258	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u259	Thank you. We're going to see Mr. De Groot of D66. He has four minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u260	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for the extremely constructive attitude and the pleasant way in which the requests, questions and concerns of the Chamber have been handled. Questions have also been answered in writing quickly and properly through the Secretary-General and the official staff. I'm gonna swing by the whole staccato. I am very pleased, but I would like to make a comment about forced shopping in the top sectors. It was written that there were no complaints. I do have a letter here which I would like to hand over to the Minister, asking him to look at it carefully. Chapeau for your efforts in the field of animal meal and food waste. I ask whether your letter on soil policy also deals with the soil passport. As far as the 120 days of plant protection are concerned, my question is whether you will also give priority to the low-risk products. I think so, heard your earlier remark. Compliments for your commitment to precision agriculture. Thank you for your kind comment on the national parks and your willingness to do so. The same goes for New Land, chapeau for that; very nice. I am not entirely reassured about the North Sea process, but you are not entirely concerned about it either; there is also your colleague Wiebes. I hope you're really committed to all the interests of your ministry there for a careful process, in which all players have a place. And finally, compliments on the experimental animal-free innovations. Then two motions. The first concerns the strengthening of circular agriculture. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government, together with the sector, will take stock of the long-term declarations and draw up joint action plans;]] [[Whereas it takes into account the strengthening of circular farming and the decline in soil fertility;]] [[considers that it is necessary to simplify policies, remove legal barriers to circular agriculture;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a definition of circular agriculture;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an insight into possible legal barriers and the follow-up process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr De Groot, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Grashoff, Mr Lodders, Mr Geurts, Mr Moorlag, Mr Futselaar, Mr Bishop and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u261	I would have done it earlier tonight; in the context of coming out of your trenches, I signed this motion. That does not alter the fact that I think it is a bit of a weak motion, in the sense that a question is being asked to the government and we as a Chamber should always have views. So I wonder if Mr De Groot could comment on his views, which I assume he has, on what the definition of circular agriculture should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u262	Sure, sure. I very much welcome the broad support for this motion, which creates a common basis for discussing the future of our food production in the Netherlands. I am very pleased about that. Of course, I have some ideas about that myself. Yesterday I addressed the definition of how I would see circular agriculture. What did I go into? In the first place, I have dealt with the better use of waste streams in animal feed. The second element is quality improvement of manure for organic fertilization as well as carbon capture in soil and crops, the third element. The fourth element is the improvement of the integration between animal and plant production, all optimized with a good income model for farmers. As far as I am concerned, these are the five or perhaps six elements of circular agriculture which I have tried to make clear in my contribution with questions and examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u263	Thank you. That's a clear answer. I would almost say that this is a beginning of the definition for the Minister. If Mr De Groot could add with me that the cycles in agriculture also close at a reasonable level, which means not at global level, but possibly at European level or at a part-European level, then perhaps we will get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u264	That would be exactly my question. You can see the whole world as a cycle, but that doesn't make us happier. What scale does D66 think of? Does the vision that D66 has on circulation also lead to an end to manure treatment and manure fermentation? Because they don't fit in with the idea of real circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u265	That's two questions. The first is the demand for the scale. This scale discussion is becoming a little different in circular agriculture. I am also thinking about this myself; I admit it. The discussion about only regional food supply becomes a little less tight because it doesn't really matter where you get the rest streams from. You can also get them from France or from elsewhere if you do so in a sustainable way. The use of cereals as animal feed will be greatly reduced. This means that the cutting of rainforests for the production of soy and that kind of element, which are still part of our food production, will stop. But the scale and regionality get a different dimension here, because you just have to look at where your currents come from and whether there are as little cereals in those streams as possible. That is the answer to the first question. Then the answer to the second question: yes, the moment you consider the whole system. That is also true in the definition. You still need animal manure, but the animal manure you have then has a much better quality and you really need it to keep your soil healthy and fertile. Now we have to process manure. Maybe in a transitional period, as long as you haven't finished it at system level, you'll need manure treatment, but eventually you won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u266	Okay. Then I understand that, as D66 looks at it, circular agriculture must mean that we no longer have surplus manure and that this manure no longer goes to manure processors and fertilisers. The scale is also shrinking. The Party for Animals may be slightly different from D66, but we can largely go along with the line, with the direction it goes on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u267	Well, that's very pleasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u268	You had a second motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u269	One final motion, motion reinforcement nature monitoring. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has many volunteers who contribute to the monitoring of nature, biodiversity and landscape;]] [[Whereas the knowledge network Development and Management Nature Quality (OBN), the Ecological Monitoring Network (NEM) and the National Database Flora and Fauna (NDFF) play a role in the collection of data, monitoring and advice;]] [[calls on the Government to consult these organisations on a vision for the future;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the Court on progress in mid-2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot, Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u270	I'd love to. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u271	Then that's what we're gonna do. I call Mr Moorlag of the PvdA. You have two minutes. So, Mr De Groot, your letter will also be included as an annex to this budget debate. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u272	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister. I don't have much time, so I'm going straight to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the agricultural sector has a large but complex sustainability statement;]] [[Whereas the agricultural sector plays an important role at national level and can play an important role in resolving the global food, energy and raw materials crisis;]] [[considers that an agricultural transition is necessary, which combines the production of food and green raw materials with both future prospects and income security for entrepreneurs, as well as the preservation and improvement of biodiversity, animal welfare, air, water, soil and landscape quality;]] [[considers that this requires a concerted effort from both the agricultural sector and the food industry, retail, public authorities and nature and environmental organisations, and consistent and predictable policies;]] [[calls on the government to use a national agricultural and nature agreement and to inform the Chamber before 1 March 2018 about the approach and timetable for this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u273	The fundamental problem with this type of agreement is that you push the political responsibility for cutting the knots and making the long-term choices towards society. The interests there are not on an equal scale. We are responsible here for protecting biodiversity and working on and creating frameworks for an agriculture in which farmers can earn a good living. If you polder that away, you're gonna pretend there's two parties at the table. One wants purple, the other wants blue; let's get to red. It's not like that. That responsibility is much heavier. Does Mr Moorlag think that my question about this plan is a final political responsibility or should we just accept it when those parties come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u274	I do see a political responsibility, because even if an agreement is reached, the Chamber retains its budget right and the right to say to the Minister: no, this outcome is not good. I acknowledge that such a process leads to a compromise. Compromises are often very difficult. One wants a horse, the other wants a camel; then a beast is made that has a bump and can hunch loudly. But in this society, we simply need compromises and social support. That is why I believe that there is a place for civil society to help not only to formulate solutions, but also to commit itself to working out that compromise and not to sabotage it. We really all have to pull the same end of the rope. I understand very well that in politics you want to realize all your ideas from your ideals, but in this country, in which we have a very fragmented political system, you cannot escape compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u275	Then I'd like to say at this place that we can't support the motion. It sounds nice, but for important matters, such as climate change, it was the party leader of the Labour Party who always said: with Mother Earth, you do not compromise. We can't delegate them to the social field. For this reason, the Party for the Animals cannot support this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u276	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement allocates resources to regional tasks, for which the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality is a coordinating director;]] [[Whereas the preservation and improvement of the quality of life in the top shrinkage regions requires an approach which is both politically and financially supported by the municipalities, provinces and the Empire concerned;]] [[calls on the government to take with it, in assessing the proposals from the regions, the issue of top-shrinking regions and to inform the Court of Justice of its consideration of this issue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u277	My third motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a shift from the consumption of animal food products to plant products is necessary in order to significantly reduce the environmental pressure of the agricultural sector;]] [[Whereas, therefore, the production and promotion of full meat substitutes in both nutritional and taste and experience quality should be strongly promoted nationally and internationally;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a long-term programme at national and international level to significantly reduce the production and consumption of animal food products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u278	I was listening to the motions tabled by the PvdA Group and I was still thinking about the agricultural agreement. Is this last motion the framework that the PvdA wants to provide for the conclusion of the agricultural agreement? That means less animal proteins, more plant proteins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u279	Yes. In my view, there is a reasonable consensus that in the longer term this is the way to reduce both the environmental pressure and the carbon footprint of the sector. How are you gonna do that? As I said in the first term, we are not going to put a gun to people's chest and order you to become a vegetarian. I do think that, along the road of graduality and also in a social way, you should put this line into practice. So it is also about the entrepreneurs who are currently making a significant contribution to the production of animal protein. All this can be done with good accompanying policies, and that can be done to my liking in a responsible way. So this is not an attempt to achieve a short-term revolution, but rather an attempt to gradually shift the course of that large ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u280	That is a long answer from Mr Moorlag, but I would like to point out that, in the eyes of the PvdA Group, everyone must become a vegetarian. I have also seen that the SGP Group has signed your first motion on an agricultural agreement. I don't think you told them this was meant by that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u281	I did not immediately formulate an agenda, nor did I say in this motion that this should be part of a broad agreement on agriculture and nature. This motion was also not co-signed by Mr Bishop of the SGP. In my view, this is no more than a call for a gradual change of course for the ship. I distance myself from the remark that the PvdA believes that everyone should become a vegetarian.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u282	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union has the floor. You have two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u283	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for the answers and the commitments. In view of the limited speaking time I have, I shall quickly read out the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that different species of Dutch farmland birds are threatened in their survival;]] [[Whereas a combination of area-based measures is necessary to protect farmland birds, e.g. raising water levels and narrowing areas, predation management, limiting disturbance and good soil management;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a broad multi-annual pilot combining area-based measures, e.g. level management and predation management,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr De Groot, Mr Weverling, Mr Geurts, Mr Moorlag and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u284	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a common approach is needed to protect nature and biodiversity in the Netherlands, as concerns include the reduction of pollinating insects and meadow birds;]] [[noting that 18 organisations from, inter alia, agriculture, horticulture, science and nature organisations are working on a Deltaplan Biodiversity;]] [[calls on the Government to support the content of the Deltaplan Biodiversity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u285	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Stichting Rare Petraces (SZH) is committed to preserving our living heritage and to preventing the extinction of original breeds;]] [[Whereas the SZH has played an important role in maintaining and promoting rare pet breeds in recent years;]] [[Considers that in the past year the limited capacity of the SZH has been used excessively to reduce the impact of phosphate regulation on rare bovine breeds and that the SZH has therefore failed to meet its core tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the additional support for a further year in view of the exceptional situation in 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u287	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor. You have no less than 16 minutes. The Minister says he wants to suspend briefly before you begin. I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u288	I call Mrs Ouwehand. It has 16 minutes' speaking time in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u289	Mr. Chairman. The tension has been raised for a while, but I will drop in with the door: we have no motions. It's always good to stay surprising. The reason we don't have any motions today is because the minister is still new. I don't mean to be rude, but it's gonna take some time to think about it. I am talking about time for reflection, a bit of reflection on the major themes that this minister really stands for. I believe what we said in the first term is that structural reforms are needed in agriculture. So you really need to think about that. But it has to be! So we give her that time and we hope that we can continue to debate with her the breakthroughs that are needed in the coming period. We say: business as usual just really doesn't work anymore. It is not the first time we have talked about the problems in agriculture, about manure fraud, about the loss of biodiversity and about animal welfare. I refer to the climate targets that have been added. The Economic and Social Committee, which was commissioned by the cabinet last year but once again made an analysis and once again wrote an opinion, said: everything has already been tried; it is time for something else. We hope that this minister will see the space to make those choices. We've already led her through a number of questions. Those taboos that need to be broken, we saw it again for a while now really in the area of our own consumption and production. We asked the Minister: shouldn't we now choose to treat food primarily as a human right? This includes placing people's right to a healthy and fully-fledged diet above all other interests. Those other interests are also justified farmers have to earn a good living, you have to organize your agriculture................................................................................................................................................................................................. If we choose to do so, we will not escape a shrinkage of livestock, a less intensive agriculture that no longer floats on poison and fertilizer, and eat less meat all together. I asked the Minister to do that. Would it be wise if we all had less meat? Then she stays a little away from the choice that has to be made. In the written answer she does say: there is a huge task, because we will have 10 billion mouths to feed. But that includes the fact that the Minister for Agriculture and Food Quality says: people, that is what we are going to do. This means something for the overconsumption here in the Netherlands. The Food Centre advises about 26 kilos per person per year, but the average Dutch eats 39 kilos of meat per person per year. So we're way above that. It has to be different, because otherwise we can't feed those mouths. There's a lot going on. There are big meat boys who already realize the future is vegetable. Our own Zwanenburg in the Netherlands and the largest meat processor in the world in America are focusing on vegetable proteins and meat substitutes, so that goes well. People are also more aware of the consequences of their diet and more often opt for a day without meat. But there's still more to be done. That's where I found the case of Gordon versus Futselaar. What goes well is that someone like Gordon, from whom, in all honesty, you might not expect it right away, says: boys, meat and cheese should only be eaten once a month; treat that as a delicacy. That's really good news. So it's going the right way. But someone like Mr Futselaar, whom I like very much, a very sensible person, who is well informed about the social consequences of eating meat, says to me: Esther, I'll just compensate for you for a moment, because you don't eat meat at all and I'll eat double. That's where it is. Even if we are well informed, we are wise and we have an open mind, we may still need a little support to make the choices we want deep down. I'm just gonna quote a Bible quote anyway. I'm afraid to say whether it was Paul or Peter, because then I'll be back in the Reformatorical Daily, along with the SGP and the Christian Union, who didn't know it either. But it's about human psychology. Peter or Paul, one of the two, was thinking about it: "I don't do the good that I want, but the evil that I don't want, I do." In other words, we need a little help to make the choices that are needed in the long term. There's Mr. Bishop and he's gonna tell us which one...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u290	Mr Bishop felt called to say something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u291	I hear Mrs Ouwehand say: I need a little help. This was Paul.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u292	See!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u293	But he wasn't messing around. He was thinking deeply about the fibers, the being, the essence of his existence, what it was like and how it was supposed to be. But I will work on that later on at the closing of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u294	I'm looking forward to it. So I guess it wasn't just about him, but it was already saying something about how man works in general. I think it wasn't just Paul himself. Mr. Chairman. So it's about the taboos. We need help to make the choices that are important for the future. I would also really like to ask the Minister to ask herself everything she does: is this in the long term in the interests of farmers and in the interests of nature, climate, biodiversity and animal welfare? Mr. Chairman. Then we do not escape to conclude with each other that the world market is not necessarily the best place for the Dutch farmer to thrive. Dutch farmers are highly innovative and highly efficient, but we also live in a country that is small, where the land is expensive and the work is expensive. On the basis of this data alone, we have a huge competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis countries such as Romania and Poland, where these conditions are better. They have cheaper land there and there are less labour costs. What we discussed ten years ago in this Chamber with the citizens' initiative Stop wrong meat was the analysis that, in the short term, Dutch agriculture is always ahead of us because we are ahead of innovation, but that we are not going to make it in the long term, if others have done the trick, in terms of costs. So in the interests of the farmers themselves, too, it is really more sensible to think more regionally and to organise agriculture. What we have seen now is that trying to win competition on the world market has led to a lot less farmers and a lot more animals. The Party for Animals wants it the other way around. The Party for Animals is truly convinced that that is possible. For example, look at the pilot of the Louis Bolk Institute, where organic farmers have 20% less yield but also 30% less cost. This is produced regionally, with a better margin. Why not look at that margin instead of trying to earn on the world market against this enormous competitive pressure? Would the Minister feel like looking at these models more closely, talking to the Louis Bolk Institute and looking for the possibility of organising a better margin for the producer with a constant number of farmers but with less high production? This means that with fewer animals and less environmental pressure you can do a lot of good things in the Netherlands. But, Mr President, these were the fine words; then it has to be done. I understand the answers given by the Minister so far, so I am not making any motions now. I really feel that she needs to go a little further into the problem. But if we ask "shouldn't we set a limit on the stables in the Netherlands?', is the answer to that: every entrepreneur must know that for himself. The consequence is, of course, that someone who has the investment potential and builds a stable for 20,000 pigs, is pushing 20 other companies out of the market that could have wanted or could have wanted it with 1,000 pigs. That freedom goes for the sector as a whole and at the expense of the individual farmers who want to work small-scale. Does the Minister recognise this and is she prepared to take this into account in the development of her vision in the coming year? Then there is the question of non-committalism, and the interests which are constantly being directed towards The Hague by the sector organisations. We have seen in the debate on the milk quota and dairy farming that this non-committalism really kills individual farmers and that the sector organisations LTO and NZO have really had no regard for this. The mean thing is that The Hague has actually implemented the policies of these organisations here. LTO and NZO wanted to get rid of the milk quota and were against timely production restrictions. At that time, of course, all had to do so in consultation with the sector organisations, and then 160,000 cows had to go ahead to slaughter. All of them also in consultation with the sector organisations. Those were their plans. A lot of farmers were angry back then. You're right to do that. But who was blamed for the policy that the sector organisations themselves had presented to The Hague and that The Hague had carried out well? The person in charge of the administration. He got a hell of a kick out of it. Do you think that these sector organisations have said honestly and openly to the farmers: boys, but it was our own fault, we asked for it ourselves? No, they didn't. They're running away from that a little bit. I see the foreman of LTO giving interviews in which the suggestion was raised that The Hague had messed it all up. They didn't have the guts to put their hands in their own bosoms. I simply want to warn the Minister about the sector organisations, who forget individual farmers, who want a lot from The Hague, but if things go wrong they do not have the courage to say themselves: yes, boys, it was us. They'll put the blame on the board of the regiment. Know this, and know that the various parties who have always supported it will not be able to help the Minister once it has come to that. The most important thing, then, is that the debate on animal welfare should be held. The non-committal nature, which we know in recent decades, which the Minister at first instance refers to in writing in reply to our questions, is really unwise. When the Minister says 'we leave it to the sector to improve animal welfare', she actually says: then I also leave the criticism of the lack of animal welfare in livestock farming to the sector itself. The problem is that the sector has already had enormous opportunities. I brought the pig I showed you in the first installment. So this pig was in Boxtel at the pig slaughter there. Animal activists go there all the time. They then stand by the trucks and try to calm the animals and give them some water. So the animals are in those trucks waiting for their death. What happened to this pig? This pig has come into the world in a bald loft. His mother was lying in a bald loft, among rods. She couldn't get on or on. There were a lot of pigs. Probably some of his brothers and sisters didn't survive, because sows have been so bred that they are now throwing thirty pigs a year. That's six times more than they'd naturally do. So these animals are weak and therefore die more often. The sector has already been asked to address this with a plan of action in 2009. In 2017, it turned out that this had not been enough. We have to note that these figures are still not falling and we are almost ten years ahead of us! If we still say 'yes, but we have to leave it to the sector', then I think it is not surprising that people in society are being resisted. Those people feel that pigs are living beings with consciousness and feeling and that it is morally incorrect to let them suffer. If you withdraw as a government then there is a feeling that people are attacking the farmers, while the blame lies in fact with them. As long as we do not lay down the rules that guarantee animal welfare, we are responsible for this clash between the people who protest against the lack of animal welfare and the people who produce it. So this is where the blame lies. The Animal Party always says that, because we should not point to the farmers. They are in this system and they simply use the space that politics leaves them. It is, but not everyone in society feels that way. So people get mad at the farmers. That is not a desirable situation, and I think the Minister agrees with us. But then there must be a solution, and that solution is not to leave it to the sector and look away from the lack of results. It doesn't go away either, because that moral intuition about how we should deal with animals is close to what we are as humans. We recognize the suffering of another living being. When we see an animal being abused on the street, we all react intuitively; we are not okay with that. If this is done on a large scale in livestock farming, then the simple argument is that it is not enough for economic reasons to make that moral intuition go away. And lucky for you! This is who we are. People are capable of moral reflection, moral action. So it's always gonna be, and I'm so proud of that. But it is important that the government, which stands for a society that is just and in which all interests are carefully weighed, also converts moral feelings into actual rules that protect animals and which allow us as a society to say that we treat animals with the respect they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u295	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bishop of the SGP has the floor. He's got three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u296	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for answering the questions and responding to the comments. I can imagine that, as the minister of the Christian Union house began with a Bible text, the colleague of the CDA who continued that path and even Mrs.Ouwehand directly reverted to the Bible, you expect me to have some sort of day-closure. But three minutes, in which I also have to table three motions, means that that is not going to work. Let me refer to the painting that was used by our group chairman in the general considerations as a picture bearer: that praying woman with folded hands. They are working hands and if you would like to convince yourself of that, I invite you to come and look in my room, because that is where the painting is instead of in the Rijksmuseum. Then I'll explain to you what's actually depicted in that homely scene. That woman prays for her food there, while in that way she connects that earthly, that "give us this day our daily bread," with God's good gifts, with the higher, with the spiritual. So a Bible verse after all, Mr. Chairman. It is extremely interesting to learn more about that. Happy invitation; you will receive coffee. I had already provided a picture of Mr Graus. If you're interested, Mr. Chairman, you can have these. It's a little bigger. You can have it with you. Motion one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to rapidly supply the information requested by the Branch Organisation Akkerbouw so that the desired cultivation studies can actually be carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Lodders, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Geurts, Mr Grashoff, Mr De Groot and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u297	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ease the introduction of the Phosphate Act by broadening the bottleneck regime and limiting the generic discount, insofar as the phosphate area under the national phosphate ceiling allows, by not applying skimming to lease transactions, and by supporting fiscal measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u298	My final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current ban on the use of phosphate artificial manure on derogation farms often requires dairy farmers to use more animal manure than nitrogen fertilization, with associated run-off risks;]] [[calls on the Government to try to re-establish the use of phosphate artificial manure on cutting maize on derogation farms during the derogation negotiations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u299	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u300	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the contribution of the Chamber in second term. I have been asked a number of questions and a number of motions have been tabled. I propose that I first pass by the questions of the Members who have remained and then move on to the motions. Firstly, Mrs Lodder's question about a tooth in relation to CRISPR-cas. Within the species limits, let me say again for the sake of completeness. I have already spoken with Commissioner Andriukaitis last week, and this subject has been raised. He asked me to support him in the policies he pursues. I have indicated that I will. We shall also be discussing this at the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in the coming week, and I will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u301	I don't know how you want to deal with interruptions, Mr. President. I'll be brief. We have read in the feedback from the Agriculture and Fisheries Council that the Minister supports the approach. We're just looking for that tooth, with the supplement that the minister gives. If we are on the same page, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u302	Yeah, I'm fine. There will be another motion on the greenport, but there was also a question from the VVD as to whether water treatment and plant protection would be included. The Impulse Agenda Greenports 3.0 will be offered in early 2018 and I don't know the content of it yet. Whether it is included is therefore also a big question for me. Mr Geurts asked me if I could clarify the depreciation of phosphate rights as soon as possible. I am now in close consultation with my colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance. So we're already working hard on this. Unfortunately, I can't decide yet, but it's on my retina. Mr Geurts asked if the Minister could talk to the provinces to preserve the old crafts. I also think keeping the crafts alive is important. He himself indicated that the Minister of OCW is primarily responsible in this area, but I am prepared to draw attention to this in my talks with the provinces. Mr De Groot's question as to whether, in the letter on soil policy, I am also referring to the soil passport, if I am prepared to do so. The soil passport is an existing instrument used regionally. The letter on soil policy will further describe how to deal with this. Mr De Groot also raised a question on the priority of low-risk products in plant protection policy. As I have said, I am in favour of the system approach. Low risk means play an important role in this. I am also committed to the rapid admission of these funds at European level. Mr De Groot's question is whether I am going to take a good look at the forced shopping top sectors. I have already indicated in writing exactly what this is about. I do not think there is unfair competition, but I am naturally willing to look at the letter. I'm gonna have to take a good look at that. Then I promised Mr De Groot that in my second term I would return to the question about the monitoring of insects. I said in the first term that I would do that now. I have commissioned Wageningen Environmental Research to present to the Netherlands all knowledge about the development of insects. This study also examines whether the monitoring is sufficient to obtain a good picture of the insect population. This study will be completed in the first quarter of 2018. If the research shows that more species need to be monitored in order to be able to monitor the development of insects properly, I want to work to make what is needed possible. I will do so together with the provinces and the organisations involved. We also want to look at new methods to visualize the development of insects. Then there is Mrs Ouwehand's question to reduce the number of stables and animals. The task is to make food, dairy, meat and eggs within the framework of environmental, spatial planning, animal welfare and health regulations. However, it must also be economically viable, without compromising the models of earning that apply to sustainability. These legal standards are established in a social and political debate, and the effects of the trade-offs can be seen by the numbers of animals or the numbers of stables. Mrs Ouwehand has pointed out quite fundamental issues, and I was pleased with that. I think this is also the place to have these fundamental discussions, for example around what she calls "moral intuition." I would like to give her back, without opening a whole new discussion, that I think that the debate here is always about what Mrs Ouwehand calls moral intuition. What do the views of the different parties and society mean for animal welfare, for example? That is not a static fact, but this always develops over time. That happened, I think, even in the period when Mrs Ouwehand is in this Chamber. So I would, I believe, like to dispute that moral intuition always leads to a definite outcome or that no movement is being made in this area. Then perhaps Mrs Ouwehand would also be a little short of herself on this point. Because, of course, it has often been involved in matters which are sometimes justified and sometimes unjustified from different political viewpoints. But of course the debates and developments take place. So let us, above all, continue to have that discussion in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u303	Mr President, let me be brief. Thank you to the Minister for recognising that this moral intuition and the moral sense of society have an important place in debates on livestock farming. Here's what I'm gonna say carefully. Our position is: yes, there is certainly movement and we appreciate all the initiatives that have been taken, for example the ban on mink farming. We also see that politics is acting at some point after changing moral views on animal handling. But our position is, quite frankly, that politics is a bit behind schedule. And that is not good for the way we deal with animals, but that is also one of the factors in this contrast that is often mentioned here between activists and farmers. And it doesn't help if The Hague continues to lag behind on these changing moral views. I just wanted to give that to you tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u304	I believe that the fact that we are having the debate on this already indicates that we are always trying to see how we can get out of it. Mrs Ouwehand also asked about the other production models for the producer. The Louis Bolk Institute has already looked into that. I think it is important that farmers and gardeners can earn a fair and good living. That is, of course, their own responsibility, but I think I have already indicated what steps the cabinet intends to take in order to improve the position of that farmer, that gardener in that chain. That is what we are going to talk about. Mrs Ouwehand also asks whether I want to ask myself whether, in the long term, it is in the interests of farmers, biodiversity and animal welfare. I hope, in my entire speech, that I have indicated that I want to connect these matters. I have indicated that this is not something for the short term, but that it is also a long term call and that that is also my commitment for the years to come. Mr President, I shall now turn to the motions for resolutions. The first motion is the Graus motion which the government is requesting to refrain from introducing phosphate rights. I'd like to advise against that motion. The second motion by Mr Graus, on item No. 16, is about that manure should be seen as something valuable; I say it in my words. I would like to give this motion a Chamber of Justice if I may interpret her as follows. The Rijkswide programme Circular Economy, in particular the Transition Agenda Biomass and Food, is already working in the spirit of this motion. So if that could be the explanation, then I'd like to leave the motion judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u305	I agree with that, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u306	Okay. Then there is Mr Graus' third motion. I would also like to give this Chamber judgment, even if I may interpret her as follows. The application of fertilizers is indeed a beautiful traditional form of circularity provided that this is done within the standards for clean water and air.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u307	I think every Member of Parliament agrees, so I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u308	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u309	The motion in part No. 18, by Mr Graus and his colleague Madlener, I am going to advise against. I am already having research carried out on the state of insects in the Netherlands. A further zero measurement then has no added value. The investigation's already under way. The motion in part No. 19 by Mr Graus, on animal-friendly ear tags. Ear tags for identification and registration are regulated and defined at European level for bovine, ovine, caprine and equine animals. Animal-friendly alternatives are already being examined by the European Commission, such as the chip for cattle. In this light, I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u310	The Minister has advised against this motion, but if she does have any influence on it, I would like to ask whether the following is possible. You can also work in animals with an iris scan. Every animal is also unique in appearance. You can work with cameras that recognize animals, even in the Oostvaardersplassen. Then you can go hormone darts. So is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this, that from the Netherlands it will be the commitment that we go to a different method than the ear tags? 'Cause this is animal suffering, you know. An ear is very sensitive to an animal, and also to the minister and to me. We just don't have to do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u311	I will not oppose proposals from the European Commission that will shape this in an animal-friendly way. The motion in part No. 20, to criminalise the beating of animals. Beating and causing unnecessary suffering is already prohibited under the Animal Abuse Act. Battle resulting in injury is even criminal. In this light, I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u312	This is something I have really studied very much with the animal police and also with people who are experts in this area. So it's not. That's what everyone thinks. You can't get rid of an animal and you can't kick an animal. All this has been punishable by the law on the keeping of animals, Article 1 (3) (c), I believe, all of it. I know all that. But I have daily contact with several people from the animal police, with the people at the front. They're usually very difficult to do anything. You should see a forensic doctor who can show there's hematoma. If someone hits a dog, there's nothing they can do. Those cases are all going into the trash can with the animal police. So this is really a request from people at the front, from the animal police. I would like to ask the Minister to look at this together with the colleague for Justice and Security, because this is a really big gap, a gap. The animal police can't do anything about people beating dogs. And that's very serious. 'Cause it's not a criminal offence. You can just hit your dog, or you have to be able to show that there are heavy hematoma. That is often very difficult for animals and it costs a lot of money. That's why we're making this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u313	I gave the explanation the way I gave him. Beating and causing unnecessary suffering is prohibited under the Animal Abuse Act. If Mr Graus feels otherwise, he should be with my colleague in the field of Justice and Security, because he is talking about criminalisation. The motion in part No. I would also advise against this, because there is already a bill with an independent restraining order, and that goes to the Chamber. That is also from JenV, so I think the talks about the restraining bans are taking place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u314	Even people in the CDA Group are saying "really unique" and expert people are saying "recidivists": then we should look at a life-long restraining ban. That's what this is about. There has also been an increase from three to ten years, but practice shows, also in America and other countries, that animal executioners are by definition recidivists. They don't learn. It's really between the ears. Once you hang out with an animal, you don't learn from it. That's why it says "recidivist animal executioners."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u315	Since the bill comes to the Chamber and lies with JenV's colleague, I would ask Mr Graus to at least discuss the point in that motion there, otherwise I will do something with a bill that I do not know. That seems a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u316	Then you'll hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u317	Yeah, I'll keep her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u318	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (34775-XIII, No. 21). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u319	The motion in part No. Twenty-two, I'd also like to dissuade you. The Animal Law already includes the intrinsic value of the animal and I think that is sufficient. The motion in part No. 23 about the NVWA animal welfare teams, because there are and remain two animal welfare teams. I have already indicated this to Mr Graus in a written reply. So I can just take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u320	I take this Minister's word for it, also because I know her from the Chamber. I believe her, but what matters is this. In the past, very good Aids have disappeared. Those people said to me, "I'm gonna kill my job." Everyone said "that's not gonna happen," but those people are all gone, all of them. There will also be very good officials disappearing in the Ministry of LNV. They get bullied away or other things happen. I think that is very serious. I'm worried, really. I believe the Minister when she says that, so I'm holding this motion. Maybe I'll let her go, too. But I also want to move her in...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u321	Mr. Graus, may I interrupt you for a moment? The Minister says he wants to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u322	It's late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u323	The motion requests that the Animal Welfare Teams be retained. I have both written and verbally stated that there are no plans to remove the Animal Welfare Teams. Mr Graus is concerned that people are being fired. That's different from what's in the motion here. I'm saying those Animal Welfare Teams are gonna stay. Then I'm not gonna take over the motion, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u324	It is the last motion; then you will be rid of me, Madam President. It's about... I've been getting signals for 11 years. When I get it, it turns out they're right. So I'm really worried. We can't miss these teams. If the Minister says she's taking this motion, I'll believe her and allow it. I trust she's a good shepherd for her sheep.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u325	The Minister indicated his intention to take over this motion. Is there any objection to that? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u326	It's the first time I've had to make an effort to take a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u327	Yeah, that's very special. Mr Graus has a heart for the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u328	If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman. I've got here...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u329	You have already taken the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u330	Sorry. We were talking about Stable Safe, an escape route system for pigs. I have a report from the WUR from Wageningen. Maybe I can hand that over so the minister can see that the system is really meant for pigs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u331	Thank you. The Minister continues with the motion in part No. 24
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u332	It calls for a proactive dialogue with the Greenports on the progress of the impulse agenda on a regular basis. I'm willing to do that. Only, the recital says something about the coordination of this by me. I like to contribute to a plan. Only, this is about the development of the sector. The development of the sector is up to the sector itself. That seems to me to be a very liberal principle, I would almost say to Mrs Lodder. The request to enter into consultations with the Greenports on a regular basis and proactively, as well as a contribution to the plan, I can promise. If that is the thrust of the motion, I can leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u333	Sure. A coordinating role, as I said yesterday in my speech, is as follows. If this Minister is on the table with this impulse agenda with all relevant partners, other ministries will also be involved. It is not for nothing that we have talked about, for example, water treatment. It's at IenW's. So I'm talking about the coordinating role between ministries. It would be very valuable if this minister could sit at the table on behalf of those ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u334	It often happens that I agree with colleagues on initiatives that go a little over my own agenda. But really a coordinating role? I don't want to make it too big. A coordinating role in the development of a sector goes too far. But I am happy to contribute to the plan and I would also like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u335	So the motion in part No. 24 gets the judgment "Room"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u336	Yeah, with the explanation. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mr Grashoff, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 25 on the phasing-out strategy. I've already indicated that a decision has been made on a five-year admission. That doesn't include a phasing-out strategy. During this period, I would like to see how I intend to develop further alternatives. Mr Grashoff wants to have some sort of phasing-out strategy in it. Five years is five years. That's allowed now. In addition, I have set up my own agenda. That's why I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 26. Mr Grashoff and others asked the government to take action on the issue of goat farming, including on the basis of animal rights. I have already indicated that we are doing more research into the causes. I have already mentioned a number of studies, including RIVM's on the health risks associated with goat farming. If we have a clear picture of this, we are going to look at the measures involved. Here too, I have already indicated that the competent authority can already take account of public health concerns in the context of spatial planning and in the granting of new permits. I therefore advise against this motion. The Grashoff/De Groot motion in part No. I'd like to take over 27, if the Chamber will allow me. Together with the Regional and Rural Information and Expertise Centres, I am already looking intensively at this. The environmental services, the municipalities, the Public Prosecutor, the FIOD, the police, the ILT and the NVWA also follow suit. We are also taking part in this. The discussion that Mr Grashoff is asking for has already begun. I'll inform the Chamber about that. So I can take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u337	Is there any objection to taking over? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u338	The Grashoff/De Groot motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u339	The judgment on the Geurts c.s. motion in piece No. 28 on the World Food Center I leave to the Chamber. As I have already indicated, the parties mentioned and I have already joined forces on this issue. I can therefore leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The Geurts-movement/Ziengs in part No. 29 is a little more complicated, because it is really about powers that lie with other governments. The powers of scrapping or their authorisation lie with the municipalities. The point of the foundation materials lies again with the provinces. In short, it lies with local authorities. That's outside my domain. That's why I advise against this motion. Then I come to the Futselaar/Grashoff motion on part No. 30. I can send information to the Chamber this spring on the agreements with the sectors on the proposals for fire safety measures in private quality systems. I can do that in the spring. The bottleneck is in the exploration of the modifications to the Building Decision for existing stables. It just really takes more time. I just can't help it. This follows in the second half of 2018. In this light, I would like to say 'hold the motion', but I am aware that Mr Futselaar wants to speed things up. Here's what I can do: one in spring and the other later in 2018. I can't go any faster. If the motion continues to be formulated in this way and is not arrested, I would advise against it in this form. The next motion is the Futselaar motion in part No. 31. As I have already said, we are not in favour of a price policy. That's why I advise against this motion. The Futselaar/Grashoff motion in part No. 32 concerns a power vested in the Secretary of State of IenW. I wouldn't want to jump to judgment for her. I therefore suggest to Mr Futselaar that this motion be tabled during a debate with the Secretary of State of IenW.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u340	Experience shows me that there is a chance that the Secretary of State will say: yes, but I do not understand livestock farming, that is what my colleague from LNV is about. I think that this should be voted on. The motion should have been submitted to another budget, but I am not going to run the risk of ping-ponging between directors. I would therefore like to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u341	Then I'll advise against the motion, because she's not on my property.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u342	The motion in part No. 32 is not recommended. I give the floor to Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u343	It is not entirely unusual for a ruler to say: I will have a word with my colleague and you will hear what I have to say in connection with this consultation. Could that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u344	This is really not on my property. If it's a little bit on the edge, it would be different. But this is about a plan of action on odour nuisance and on smell standards. You'll have to deal with the Environment Act. It's really all parts that aren't with me. If there really is overlap... For example, Mr Graus had a number of motions on subjects which are also on the subject of JenV's colleague, but this really is with someone else and not with me. So I find it a little complicated to become the door for Mr Futselaar. I would nevertheless like to suggest that he table this motion in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u345	Yes, but the Minister is also going to talk to police regions in the context of manure fraud, even if it is not about police regions, and it is specifically about the agricultural sector. I see that we are not going to agree, but the motion remains in the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u346	Then I'm going to dissuade you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u347	On the motion in part No. 32 is the judgment "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u348	The motion-De Groot c.s. 33 Let me judge Chamber, if I may point out the motion as follows. As regards the definition: the Biomass and Food Transition Agenda already takes into account the definition of circular agriculture. That also happens with interested parties, so that's being explored there. As part of this transition agenda, legal barriers are also identified, so that is already happening there. If I may explain the motion in this way, I can give the judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u349	Thank you to the Minister for her explanation. I would also point out that the first consideration concerns long-term declarations and action plans. It is good to join those paths that are already about the circular economy, but the request is also to put it at the heart of the debate on the future of our food production.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u350	I'm just gonna find out what else to do. Just gonna take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u351	Yes, exactly, in the action plans to be drawn up with the different sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u352	Yes, but the request is to draw up a definition and to provide insight into the possible legal obstacles. I have indicated that this is already happening in a trajectory that we have already set in motion. I do not think that the motion is asking for more, so I have to make a commitment that the motion does not ask. I think that's getting a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u353	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u354	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u355	We're at the De Groot c.s. motion. in piece No. 34.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u356	This motion is policy support, if I may read the motion as follows. I am already working with the provinces to update the agreements on monitoring with relevant organisations. As indicated in Mr De Groot's question, I would like to investigate possible gaps in monitoring. If I may see this as an interpretation of the motion, I see this as a support for policy. I can report on this in mid-2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u357	So that's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u358	Yes, that's Court judgment, because there's no support for policy anymore. That's right. I got that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u359	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u360	Then I come to the Moorlag/Bisschop motion on part No. 35, to bet on a national agricultural and nature agreement. I have already indicated that I understand the spirit of Mr Moorlag's speech very much, but first I want to put some energy into the things that are going on now, in order to overcome precisely those contradictions between agriculture and nature. The motion actually asks for the opposite; first to make all kinds of plans, and then to do the following. Things have been set in motion. We can reinforce that. We will also have debates on this. In that light, I must discourage this motion. The Moorlag motion in part No. I would like to leave it to the House to decide, because I take good proposals seriously. The same applies, of course, to proposals for shrinking regions. I look forward to it with interest and I will discuss it with my colleague from BZK, who is also responsible for the shrinking regions. I will inform your Chamber quickly about the criteria and the procedure of regional deals, so that it is clear to the regions concerned, so this motion is Chamber of Appeal, President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u361	There is another question by Mr Geurts on the motion for a resolution on item No. 36.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u362	It is not a motion that we have tabled, but I do have a question for the Minister. Is there not now a head start on the criteria that the Minister is going to develop? Or can we now assume that shrinking regions are part of the Regional Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u363	I said it exactly the way I meant it. If the shrinkage regions come up with proposals, and this is true of all regions, not only for the shrinkage regions, but also for the shrinkage regions, then of course we will look favourably at them. If they themselves hand in plans that raise this problem, for example, then they will really be included in the assessment. I have just told Mr Moorlag that the criteria for how we are going to do this are still being sent to the Chamber. So everyone can test it, so that it is also transparent how we are going to do it. The motion in part No. 37 concerns an international long-term programme to reduce the production and consumption of animal food products. Much has already been done in this area. I have indicated that I support the Green Protein Alliance. We have the Fruit and Vegetables Action Plan and an imvo vegetable protein has recently been signed. I also stimulate the cultivation of algae and seaweed. So a great deal has already been done, and in that light I would like to discourage this motion. Then there is Mrs Dik-Faber's motion. in piece No. 38, on the launch of a multi-annual pilot with a combination of area-based measures. I sympathise with the idea of protecting farmland birds with regional measures. I would also like to discuss this with the region. In that light, I would like to leave the motion to the House's judgement. The motion in part No. 39 is about a delta plan for biodiversity. I do not think that I have put my enthusiasm on board in this respect. I'd also like to talk to the initiators. I cannot, of course, anticipate the content of the plan, but I am prepared to facilitate the delta plan in any way, which the motion also asks for. Also judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 40. I understand Mrs Dik-Faber's request. The past year, unfortunately, a lot of things have been reviewed so that the SZH has less to do with its actual role. There has been additional support in the past year and I am prepared to continue it for next year in view of the exceptional situation of 2017. So I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber, too. Then the motion to part No. 41. This motion is widely signed, but I can't execute it. The privacy laws do not allow us to provide that data ourselves. An avv is a private matter and we are subject to strict privacy rules. That is why I should really discourage the motion as it has now been formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u364	I'm a little surprised anyway. Now suddenly the privacy argument pops up. I did not come across this in the written reply and I did not find it elsewhere. I would ask the Minister to interpret this motion in such a way that it is carefully considered how, with respect for privacy law, it can be met in order to be of service to the industry organisation, so that it can continue. Otherwise, the industry organisation really has to start a mega operation itself. As a result, it is years behind schedule, while it is in the interests of everyone that progress can be made. So I would ask the Minister to look favourably at this motion with that interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u365	I really want to be benevolent, only, I can't break iron with hands. The point is that the interbranch organisation at the RVO can obtain the Chamber of Sales numbers from the non-registered members. It can therefore register these companies so that they can point out to them the obligation to register which has applied to them since the AVV in respect of the BO Akkerbouw. I get the point, just, an avv is a matter of private law. As a government, we cannot simply provide the data for private law matters. That would also be a precedent sheep for other things. I can only see if the RVO wants to take a good look at how this can be done in an easy way, but I cannot, as a government, provide that data.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u366	Mr. Grashoff. Sorry, excuse me. Mr. Bishop. I saw Mr Grashoff standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u367	I'd say make up a ruse, Tom Poes. I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u368	I'd make up a ruse, but I can't act against the law. That is what I am reporting to Mr Bishop. If that's what I'm asked, I'm gonna have to watch... The motion expressly calls on the government to provide the information requested quickly. Then we have to do something we can't do. I would merely suggest to Mr Bishop that the motion be formulated in such a way that we can at least ask the RVO to consider how this can be done quickly. But I just can't provide the data.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u369	I think Mr Bishop is going to think about this. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u370	Well, let me just look at the wording so that the formal barriers are removed, because the intention is clear. Of course there are possibilities; I am convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u371	I would like to support Mr Bishop on this point. It is quite clear that there is a kind of constellation in which something is theoretically possible, but in practice it is impossible to get off the ground. Here the question should not be: can it or can it not be? We just want to hear how it can be done. If it is not possible, that means not only that this avv, but that many avv's can get into trouble if this situation arises. I've had it explained in detail. It's a bit of a Kafkaian effect for the farmers' union. It's possible, it's allowed, but it's actually not feasible. I would like to help Mr Bishop and look with him at the wording, but I am really asking the Minister to turn it around and not say 'it can' or 'it can', but make sure that it can somehow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u372	I think it's possible. I've just indicated a route on which it can be done. If Mr Bishop wishes to amend his motion, I would be happy to consider how we can do it in such a way that it gives some air. Only, I have been asked to provide information to a private-law organization and I cannot. That is what this motion is asking for, but you have heard what I have said. If Mr Bishop wishes to change the substance of the motion, we will see what we can do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u373	But as the motion now stands, the verdict is "dissuade."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u374	Yeah, because the way she's lying there right now, I can't carry her out, so I have to dissuade her. Then I come to the Bishop/Graus motion on item No. 42. It is well known that we are working hard to ensure that we remain below the phosphate ceilings. I will therefore have to advise against this motion, because it could lead to the phosphate ceiling being exceeded in dairy farming. That would mean losing our derogation. The last motion is the Bishop/Graus motion in part No. 43. This request would also lead to a reduction of the usage standard for the derogation companies. In the light of the negotiations that we are currently engaged in, it is not wise to argue for them now. That's why I have to discourage this motion. Mr. Chairman. I have come to the end of my response and my assessment of the motions. I would like to thank the Chamber very much. We are at the beginning of hopefully a nice dialogue and many debates on the future of our agriculture, our nature and our food quality. I am delighted to enter those debates with you, as I have been enjoying them for the past two days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u375	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the discussion of the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate and Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-07-tweedekamer-11.u376	The votes on the motions will be taken next Tuesday. The amendments and the budget itself will be voted for Christmas in the week.
