ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. There are three participants in this debate, two of whom will speak. The first is Mr Paternotte of the D66 Group. He has, like everyone else, two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Sittard-Oost residents like to call on a German network. The telecom masts just across the border are easily accessible for many telephones there and via the German network you pay a lot less for calling with your holiday love in Italy than via your own Dutch network. It matters if Tele2 charges €0.90 per minute, while roaming is free. Since 15 June, we have not been paying for calls or text messages in the European Union to any EU country, which is beautiful, but what many people don't know is that calling Europe still costs money, even up to €2 per minute in Germany. That seems like a weird hole in the new rules and that's what it is about D66. Entrepreneurs and residents at the border should not be the victims of a so-called difference between roaming and calling abroad. Only Minister Kamp does not think so yet and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that roaming charges within the European Union have been abolished since 15 June in accordance with Regulation 2120/2015;]] [[noting that this Regulation does not provide for the elimination of additional costs of calling or texting from its own Member State to other countries within the European Union;]] [[noting that this leads to the strange situation that for European calls a Dutch person should go to Belgium and vice versa;]] [[Whereas it is not possible to explain why calls to countries in the European Union can still cost up to almost €1 per minute while roaming charges have been abolished;]] [[Whereas this situation causes disproportionate costs for entrepreneurs and residents of border regions with relatively high international contact;]] [[Whereas 150 MEPs from a multitude of political groups and countries have asked the European Commission to make a proposal to address this problem;]] [[calls on the Government to take the view that an internal market includes an internal telecoms market without excessive costs for calls and text messages within that market and to invite the European Commission to come forward with a proposal to this effect at the relevant Councils of Ministers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-30-414]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u3	Mr. Chairman. During the written consultation with the Minister, we asked in particular questions about the e-card for services. We thank the Minister for his answers and would like to ask a few additional questions. Can the Minister indicate whether developments have taken place in the last two months on the issue of e-card for services? If so, which ones are they? In addition, the Minister had indicated that the Ministry would have discussions with various sectoral stakeholders and social partners. In the reply we read that they expressed concerns about the workability, added value and possible abuse of the e-card for services. Can the Minister indicate whether this has changed the government's position on the European proposal? If so, how and, if not, why not? Finally, the Minister stated in his reply in July that further talks would be held in the near future. Could the Minister indicate with which bodies the Ministry has had further discussions and what the outcome of these talks was?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you. There are one motion and a number of questions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am not going to say that Mr Paternotte does not have a point. If you call from the Netherlands to any other EU country, you pay a high rate. That is not as high as Mr Paternotte says. He was talking about $0.90 you'd pay anyway. With the largest subscriptions, you pay €0.23 if you call another EU country. There is also one where you can get it for €0,19. But there is also one that charges €0,65 or sometimes even €0,90 for it. In a market it seems a bit difficult to keep your customers satisfied with that, but that is further to the company; they have much more sense of it. The point is that if you call any other EU country from the Netherlands, you pay the high rate. Only calls in the Netherlands will be subject to the low rate. But if you call from another EU country with any other EU country, that can be the Netherlands, but that can also be any other country, then you always pay the low rate. That is the consequence of the roaming rule we have introduced in Europe. The purpose of that roaming rule was the following. You have a mobile subscription in the Netherlands. You go to your holiday country, for example Spain, Italy or Greece. From there you call the Netherlands. Then you have to pay a lot, and we didn't want to. That is why we have arranged that if someone calls the Netherlands on vacation with his mobile phone, he will simply contact us for the Dutch fare. The consequence is that this contact at the low Dutch rate applies not only to the Netherlands, but to all EU countries. This is different from calling from the Netherlands with any other EU country. Because then you just pay the high fare. That is why I am not going to say that Mr Paternotte has no point. But we do need to realize a few things. If you call from the Netherlands with other EU countries, you pay the high rate. It was, and it still is. In fact, within our own kingdom, it is. If you call Curaçao from the Netherlands, you also pay the high rate. So Mr Paternotte is actually asking for something in Europe that we do not do in our own kingdom. The second point is that you can easily call from the Netherlands via a 0900-number. Then you call zero nine point, a 0900 number, and then you dial the phone number you want to connect to. Then you pay a much lower rate. That's very easy. Another option is to take a special subscription. If you regularly call abroad, you can take a mobile sim-only subscription, with which you can make unlimited calls in the EU. Then you only pay €5 to €7 per month more than with another subscription. That saves you only €5 to €7 per month, and then you can make unlimited mobile calls to all countries in the European Union. A third option that means that as a consumer you do not have to choose the expensive solution that Mr Paternotte is talking about is that you will call via the Internet, via WhatsApp, Skype or FaceTime. There are therefore many possibilities for consumers to do things differently. International conversations account for 3.5% of total conversations. They are part of the business model of the telecom companies. I think we should be careful to intervene every time in the business models of the telecom companies. We have done so with regard to roaming. That is what we decided to do in Europe. I'm not gonna take anything off of that. We have also advocated this from the Netherlands. But I think those companies should have the opportunity to compete with each other and to distinguish themselves from each other. Calling abroad is one of the possibilities. I have already indicated that you can do this via your own normal provider if you pay extra euros per month, via a 0900 number or via the internet. There are therefore sufficient opportunities for critical consumers to do something else that Mr Paternotte has described. That is why I think it would be wise not to do what he has to do in the motion for a resolution on item No. 414 question. Perhaps I could add one more argument, Mr President. We are in the process of developing a new telecoms framework in Europe. It's under negotiation. The Netherlands has had many notes on his vocals. We wanted access to a country where there is a duopoly, such as the Netherlands. Here's Ziggo and KPN. We think it is necessary to arrange for everyone else to be able to access these networks, not only with KPN, but also with Ziggo. So we're busy negotiating on that. We are also negotiating our position on spectrum policy, and we have a view on the division of powers. We have come a long way with these negotiations. If I have to add another point at the last minute, it weakens our position on those other points. I don't need that either. Although I do not deny that Mr Paternotte has a point, I think, on the basis of all the arguments I have mentioned, that it is wise to recommend that the Chamber do not support this motion. I therefore advise against Mr Paternotte's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u6	The more countries take the view that this weird hole needs to be closed, the closer it gets, the same goes for roaming. I would like to comment on the Minister's argument that there are sufficient alternatives. The minister says: it is indeed difficult, but if you look up enough 0900 numbers on the internet or start whatsaping or skyping over the internet, then you don't have to suffer so much from it. There are a lot of people who don't have WhatsApp or Skype at all. For example, Mr. Mark Rutte works down here. He's got a Nokia phone, so he can't even eat whatsap. I do not think this is a solution for many people, especially in the border regions. If the Minister can promise me that until the end of his ministry he will only use WhatsApp to call or call through 0900 numbers, then I am willing to see if that works properly in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u7	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u8	I have mentioned three obvious possibilities. There is a lot of skypeted, face-timed and whatsappt. This is increasingly being used, also by people who have just been summarized by Mr Paternotte as 'the mp'. Those possibilities are known to a lot of people and they are also used. The second possibility I indicated is the 0900 numbers. That's really easy. You call the number you want to call abroad, and for that you have to press four things: zero, nine, one, two, nine, three, four. Then you also have a cheaper connection. Finally, there are a few telecom providers I will not mention the names "b" where you only have to pay €5 to €7 per month to make unlimited calls to all EU countries. So the problem that Mr Paternotte is trying to solve has already been solved. And as far as it hasn't been resolved, that's just a part of the market. I do not think that we should regulate more than is necessary. Moreover, we should not come up with this at the moment, because we would weaken our negotiating position. All due respect to Mr Paternotte and his point, but this was the reason why I did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u9	Clear. Finalizing, Mr Paternotte. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u10	On the one hand, the Minister says that we should not touch the business model of telecom providers, but on the other hand he advocates alternatives for consumers that can be used to hit that same business model. If we find that it is only 3.5% and that there are certain people who are paying €0.90 per minute to call across the border, as the Minister acknowledges, is it not logical that we should just close that hole, because it is such a small sacrifice, so that it is clear to all consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u11	I've given arguments why we shouldn't. It's not like I'm advocating anything. I'm just showing you what the possibilities are right now. There is also a great deal of use for this. We can talk about €0,90, but if the biggest provider doesn't ask for more than €0,23, I don't think that's a good idea. I come to another point: Mrs van den Berg's questions. Mrs Van den Berg knows that during his presidency, the Netherlands has been committed to improving the functioning of the European services market. The Netherlands has the greatest interest in the proper functioning of the internal market. The internal market for goods is functioning very reasonably, but the internal market for services is not. During our Presidency, we said that a European service map should be created. If a company can prove that it complies with all the requirements for the provision of services in a country, it may also provide services in other countries. That's gonna break down the service market. That is what we have successfully advocated. I've been working very intensively on it myself at that time. We have all achieved that the Competitiveness Council of February 2016 stated in its conclusions that this should be done. This was confirmed at the March 2016 European Council a month later. We've come a long way with that. Then it had to be dealt with by the European Commission, but it has toned it down considerably. What remains is an electronic card in which a service provider can prove that he meets certain administrative requirements in a country. That did not achieve what we wanted to achieve. We were not enthusiastic about it, but we supported it because it is better than nothing. We very much want to achieve more, and we therefore continue to look for ways of achieving this. Our ultimate goal is to open up the European services market. We have received a motion from Mr Weverling, which states that we should discuss this separately with the entrepreneurs in the sectors concerned. We had already talked about this, but we did so again in order to implement that motion. We have spoken with VNO-NCW, with Bouwend Nederland, with FNV Bouw, with the Association of Insurance Companies and with the Dutch Professional Organisation of Accountants, but we have also spoken directly with entrepreneurs from the sectors concerned, namely construction, business services and insurance. In this way we have been extra fed with arguments from the entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs always have a number of practical objections when something new comes. That is also quite right, but Dutch service entrepreneurs know very well that they have the greatest interest in opening up that European service market. So they also agree with the direction in which we are tackling it. Mrs Van den Berg asked about the discussions and developments. The negotiations in Brussels are still in an early stage. This means that there are negotiations within Council working groups. That's on a technical level. There are no drivers like me involved. There are no developments to report to you yet, so it's not running fast yet. If it goes ahead, it could lead to a follow-up at the Competitiveness Council on 30 November. In what form do I not know at the moment, but we have ample opportunity to inform the Chamber about the progress made. I intend to send a letter to the Chamber in a week or three, so at the beginning of October, in which I will tell you separately about the state of affairs and progress. The usual times between now and 30 November will continue to be used to inform the Chamber of the annotated agendas and the Council reports about the developments that have taken place since this moment, when I will inform you about the current state of affairs. I hope that I have answered Mrs van den Berg's question sufficiently in this way. She also asked me what more conversations are coming. We are going to speak separately with the organisation of the stand builders, CLC-VECTA. If other people or other organisations report to us, we will of course remain available for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u12	I have a short question. The Minister used the word "information" a few times. In any case, in my opinion, our request to the Minister went a little further than merely informing. We also asked to consult the Chamber before very important steps are taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u13	Sure. It's the same for me. If there's anything to report, I'll report it to the Chamber. If the Chamber thinks it should be discussed then, it is organising a debate with me. That's the usual way of doing things. Then the Chamber or what we do, what I do, is satisfied. If you don't, there'll be a verdict. I therefore believe that what Mrs Van den Berg wants is no different than what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-12.u14	Fine. So much for this debate. In two weeks, on Tuesday 26 September, we will vote on the motion. We are going to turn over to the next debate on the breeding of goats. We thank the Minister, of course, for his presence.
