ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the oral questions. We shall begin with Mrs Agema's question on behalf of the PVV to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I would also like to welcome. I call Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. While everyone is currently busy reading the coalition agreement and preparing responses to it, we are standing here because of the sad fact that the negotiations on the orphan drug Orkambi were terminated last week. Orkambi is a spectacular medicine for children and adolescents suffering from cystic fibrosis, cystic fibrosis. It will ensure that the next defect is effectively eliminated. That is so spectacular that children and young people in Germany, Ireland, Denmark, Luxembourg, Austria and America get that medicine. Except in our country, because the Minister has broken off the negotiations again. And that while this drug, which dramatically improves the lives of these young people, was already allowed in December 2015. So for almost two years, these sick patients have not been given this medicine. For 800 young people, this medicine is a blessing in a very difficult life, where the lungs always fail. We cannot do this, and we ask the Minister to explain it. Why did the negotiations with her on the Middle Orkambi break again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Tough mucous disease is a terrible disease. More and more difficult to breathe, more and more oppressive, problems with your bowels, not growing well, knowing you'll never get better. Really horrible. It gives a sense of powerlessness. It's a debilitating disease. By the way, Orkambi is a medicine that has been registered for over 12 years. But if a pharmaceutical company then has a medicine in its hands that provides relief, then of course you only want one thing: here with that medicine. Patients want it, you want it, and I want it. Vertex has such a drug. This puts Vertex in a huge position of power. It gives that company the opportunity to charge a huge price for that medicine. A price which we must not know is proportionate to development costs. That money isn't being asked of me. No, that's what society is asked for, to you and to all the contributors. We'll pay for the care together. I would love nothing more than to make this medicine available to our patients. Of course we all do, but at what cost? Let's blackmail ourselves? What does this actually mean for the future, as more and more new medicines come onto the market at exorbitant amounts? Those amounts are not requested because they must, but simply because they can, because there is no alternative and no competitor. Are we prepared to put these amounts on the table and at the expense of what other concern will it be? It is terrible that we have to ask ourselves these questions. Mr. Chairman. I can tell you, I'm literally awake from that. The decision not to include Orkambi in the basic package was not taken. The Zorginstituut Nederland has carefully investigated the added value of Orkambi. It considers that the results are relatively modest at far too high a cost. Mr. Chairman. I think it's terrible that we don't come out of it, and I understand very well that patients are angry, that patients' parents are angry. I myself am angry, because this impossible dilemma would not have to be there if this manufacturer were to take on his social responsibility. Nor is it the case that all countries simply pay off Orkambi. To be precise, Orkambi is reimbursed in seven European countries. And all these other European countries are in exactly the same dilemmas and in exactly the same negotiations as we are. All these fellow institutes at the Dutch Health Institute have equal judgments on the effectiveness and the price of Orkambi.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u5	The difference with those other countries is that the children and young people get the cure first and then the ministers start fighting with the manufacturer. But in our country, children haven't had the medicine for almost two years. I've known these kids a long time, Mr. Chairman. In 2014, I was at a meeting. Then there was nothing but hope. That is the hope of a concrete means of saving lives, and the Minister says: I want to repay it, but I cannot, because the price is too high. No, Mr President, this minister does not want to reimburse, this minister wants to make a political point about the back of sick children. The Minister said last week whether the week before she was waiting for the bus with her purse at the bus stop, so to speak. I would like to say to the Minister: burrow back to the Ministry and straighten it out! Make sure these kids get the medicine first. It is a batter of EUR 60 to 80 million, while next year 37 000 asylum seekers come in and get everything for free, free care and so on. That's gonna cost billions. But these 800 kids can have a life, go to college. They don't have to be in the hospital in a cabin anymore and don't have to hang out with their boyfriends because they can infect each other. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna tell the minister to go back to the ministry and straighten this out. Go first and get your successor to fight a little rubbert with the manufacturer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr President, it is not the case that patients outside the seven countries where it is reimbursed have access to Orkambi. That's incorrect. What is also wrong is that it is about very young children, because the medicine is registered for over 12. I would also like to say that I find it really incomprehensible that I am being taken into account because we are not paying for the medicine and that I am not hearing anything here about a manufacturer who is asking for exorbitant prices, of which not only the Health Institute, but also fellow institutions throughout Europe, for Christ's sakes: around the world! It is said that this price is not proportionate to development costs. It's not in proportion to what that manufacturer is already earning. Then you can say that it's up to me and that I have the choice. No, the manufacturer has a choice. He doesn't sell cookies, he sells medicine. It's not the only manufacturer who sells medicine. I can tell you that there are medicines in the pipeline that are not about quality of life, but about life and death, for which such high prices are also demanded. This is not going to be the last debate. There's going to be a series of drugs behind us, and we're going to face the same dilemma. Do we pay what a manufacturer asks? Then we have to, but then it's all gonna cost us so much money that it's untenable. Or do we say: no, we have a system in which we have a Healthcare Institute that investigates what therapeutic added value is and what this medicine does for the patient? Does it work a little bit? Does it do a lot? Is it life-saving or not? The price depends on that therapeutic added value. So the more the medicine does for a patient, the higher the price that we as a society can bring for such a medicine. I think it is really too populist to say here that I would personally leave these children over 12; I would also leave them in the cold, even though we did everything we could last summer to come up with a comparison with this manufacturer. We've put the Healthcare Institute back to work. We've been looking at an organoid test and what it would mean if this worked. We have pulled everything out of the closet, but we simply can't transfer what monopolists are asking us because there's no competition at all, ask us, automatically into their bank account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u7	The Minister takes the word populist in the mouth, while she herself is making a political point about the back of sick children. Indeed, children, because with cystic fibrosis you are born. You're born with those lungs full of mucus. Can't go to school, can't play outside. Indeed, we are still talking about admission from 12 years old, but in the very short term it will be an admission from 6 years old. We are talking about very young children who will be able to go to school in the near future, and then this Minister will be holding hands for 60 to 80 million. Of these, 800 children could have a life in our country. But no, Mr President, a political point must be made here. I call on the Minister once again: go back to the Ministry, set it right and let your successor fight with the manufacturer over the price. Because we all don't know the price. If the Minister knows more about the price, she must share it with the Chamber. We all know that Germany is already receiving the cure for a much lower price than the Netherlands. With the Medical Institute I also have an apple to pick. If a bureaucrat behind a desk over there says "that drug is too expensive"... it can't be? Why doesn't he set the cost of all these hospitalizations against that, or those kids don't have a life? Why are we in a situation where a bureaucrat at the Healthcare Institute determines that children do not receive a cure that the doctor considers necessary? It is a means that is proven to be effective. It is not only proven effective, but spectacularly effective. It removes the next defect. It's not a symptom killer. This is what parents and children have been hoping for for so long. It has been available since December 2015. For almost two years, there's been a stretch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u8	Nothing's easier for me than to sign at the cross. You do not know at all what amount I am signing. Nothing is easier than to think: in my last few weeks I get out of this dilemma and I just sign by the cross. I don't, because I think it's in the interests of these patients and other patients who come after that that we keep it affordable. And yes, I can give you insight into my last offer, because it is not accepted. That is another thing: that we can only make deals where we have to sign the manufacturer that we are not talking about it. What was the last offer? Here's what I can say. In his opinion to me, the Dutch healthcare institute had indicated that the price should fall by 82% in order to actually be proportionate to the therapeutic added value of this medicinal product, which is considered limited. My last offer is based on a number of patients. If all 750 patients were to receive the cure, we would be prepared to pay 46 million a year, i.e. a 63% discount. Well, then the drug would have to work in all those patients. You might wonder if that's likely, because the drug has side effects and we already know that it's not gonna work in some patients. We have said that lower patient numbers also accept lower discount rates. For example, we have accepted a 54% discount rate for 444 patients. If the organoid test at the Hubrecht Institute were to become available, I would have promised 10% bonus, while the manufacturer did not have to contribute or invest any euro. Then the broader picture. If my offer had been accepted, Orkambi, whose Zorginstituut Nederland has concluded that it has relatively modest effects, would be in the top 20 most expensive medicines, with 750 patients. For other medicines in the top 20 in terms of money, thousands of patients are involved. Our offer has a range of between 34 and 46 million euros, depending on the number of patients. This means for the manufacturer only a fixed income of 34 to 46 million euros for the Dutch market. If you extrapolate that to all countries, you have to look at the profits for such a manufacturer. Apparently that yield for this manufacturer is still not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mrs. Agema, a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u10	I take offense at one point in fact, namely that the Minister keeps repeating that there is a very low impact according to the Dutch Health Institute. This is not about how the product works, but about the cost of the product. I would like to make it quite clear that the remedy removes the following defect and has a spectacular result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u11	Literally quoted, the Healthcare Institute concluded that it has a modest effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u12	Financial!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u13	Not financially. Financially, it has a huge impact. If I had signed the cross right away, what you would have liked, I would have paid €170,000 per patient and 125 million per year. Sign by the cross? So you'll never be in a position to make those drugs affordable again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u14	I believe that we all share the deep disappointment for patients with CF here, because the negotiations have collapsed twice and this means is not now available. When I hear the amounts the Minister was willing to pay, up to EUR 46 million, I would point out that the Vertex top man alone has had a top salary of EUR 45 million. That was the whole budget. It has now been reduced to EUR 17 million. Let me, as a liberal, say once again that I find it really shameless that these kinds of amounts are already disappearing on salary alone, which I would like to take note of. I have a question, too. The patient association is quite understandably very disappointed, but says that the measurement of effectiveness looks too much at the lung function and too little at the recovering effect of this medicine. Can the Minister zoom in on the way the effectiveness is weighted by the Healthcare Institute?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Healthcare Institute measures the effectiveness on the basis of the data at their disposal. They did that measurement again at my request, because I was hoping it would get better. I also hoped that if we had that organoid test, it would get better and better. That's very disappointing. I'm a politician. I have to rely on the Zorginstituut Nederland, where our experts do research into cost-effectiveness and therapeutic added value. I would be seriously hesitant if other countries had reached completely different conclusions, but that is not the case. All their fellow institutes have done similar analyses. So I have to deal with it, no matter how much I wish it would turn out differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u16	I like it. I hear two VVDs here shouting that community money should go to the community and that we should help these patients. I also hear the Minister say that they are actually crooks, because they put money in their pockets instead of taking their social duty to actually help patients. Can we help each other? Can the Minister at least explain how these negotiations have gone and how much profit Vertex is making over the backs of these patients? Can she call on her colleagues in Europe to do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u17	There is no market at all. There's a monopolist. There's one manufacturer who has it. You need to take action against that. It's not for nothing that I have such an international agenda. I have spent a lot of time in recent years getting countries with me. Let's negotiate together. Let's be transparent to each other: what do you pay and what do you pay? But it's not just that. Let us look at the patent system in Europe, where orphan medicines are sometimes given the exclusive right for more than 20 years and no manufacturer can create a cure that will give you competition. Fortunately, that's happening now, but it's slow. Many countries feel differently about this either because these industries are within their borders, or because they are making a different assessment. But it'll grow. More and more manufacturers and more countries are seeing this as an unsustainable situation. Of course, the policy has always been that every euro should go to care as much as possible when it can. The government is now dependent on a private monopolist, not even in the Netherlands but often in the United States or the United Kingdom. I have been fighting for years for us to change the balance of power so that we, as governments, are a little stronger. As far as public access is concerned, I have given you my final offer. I don't know what the development costs are. I wish I knew. I can't force it. Vertex is in the United States. I do not know exactly what development costs and other costs they have. I'd get that insight right now. If I get that insight from the manufacturer, black and white, and it shows that the medicine is very well balanced, then it will be different. Then you can say: okay, it was very expensive to develop it. But, yes, if I look at what is not only earned, but also what is turned for, then we can all count on our fingers that there is a lot of air in there or that money disappears where we would rather not see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a fierce story and a diabolical dilemma for this minister. I am very pleased that she has fought the battle and that she has some transparency in it, but it is, of course, terrible for the people involved. I think Mr Rutte said that we all share that. I would like to put one more question to the Minister to make sure that we have done everything we can on this dossier under her reign, so that we at least do not have a discussion about it afterwards. I understand the Minister says she has faith in the Healthcare Institute. I think we should have that, too. It's too easy to say they did it wrong. On the other hand, we see that there are six countries, almost seven, because France has a special regime that has made the medicine accessible. They've made a trade-off. They made assumptions about the effectiveness of the drug and about the price. Is the Minister prepared to conclave with these countries once more to check whether the assumptions we have made in the Netherlands are correct or whether there could still be development in them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u19	I've already done that, and I know that our assumptions are consistent with those of their institutions. But if there is no alternative medicine, Germany automatically allows a medicine, regardless of the cost. That means that there the drug is just paid for, because it's in the system. So they're just paying those towering amounts. In some countries you have such a system in which it goes automatically and in others they have received advice. Look at Belgium, which we negotiated together. They even came out higher in terms of discount that we had to enforce. I did say that here too, I would say that if the manufacturer says somewhere that he can still make a move or that he can offer that transparency, he is always welcome to the ministry. Then we'll sit right back around the table. But if you don't want to lower your price and you get such guaranteed income, because Orkambi you swallow for the rest of your life... By the way, there will probably be a much improved version within a year, but that aside. If the manufacturer changes his mind or thinks he has something new, he is always welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u20	Second supplementary question, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u21	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. My question to the Minister was: how to proceed, looking at these patients? I am pleased that the Minister has also indicated that there might be another possibility for another medicine, because my question to her would be: how to proceed? What can we do as a Chamber and what can the successor do in it? Can she say a little more about any new medicine that might be more effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u22	The new cure. There is a manufacturer who is also working on a medicine. It'll slow down. The new medicine closest to it belongs to the same manufacturer. So that's where the same conversations come up. The only expectation is that we all do not yet know that the results are therapeutically greater. But that's all looking into the future. Now we are just in the situation that we have a manufacturer who is just making incredible amounts of money with a medicine that is not an alternative and that we pay it all or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u23	Mr. Chairman. It is quite understandable that emotions grow high here, first of all, of course, among patients. You'll just depend on one of those drugs and you won't get it now when it works. So I fully support Mrs Agema's emotions, which I fully understand. But I also support the Minister, because those pharmaceuticals are just misbehaving over patients' backs. That's what you see here in practice. I agree with the Minister. At the same time, I agree with Mrs Agema that we should not really give up on behalf of those patients, so I ask the Minister if she is prepared to make an extreme effort. It's different than buying a house, isn't it? You don't get out of that, the price isn't right, and then you say, "I wish I could, but I don't want it now." It's a drug that people need. Is the Minister prepared to seize every opportunity to get out of it and indeed not against usury profits, but in a way that gives patients the medicine they need?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u24	I did. It took me a while, because before the summer I resumed these negotiations. I did. If you look at what the Zorginstituut Nederland has advised what would be rational, you can see that I have gone much further. They advised me to reduce the price by 82% for each patient, starting from patient number 1. I'm at half the price if I'm over half the patients. That really is a substantial difference. You could also appeal to me: what's the point of having the Healthcare Institute give advice if you don't follow them completely? It's precisely out of compassion with the patients that I've gone this far. With that last step that we took and which was difficult, we really thought we had made the manufacturer such a beautiful offer that they could not refuse. Yet they do. So what you should ask is: manufacturer, why don't you think about it, because you don't make cookies and you don't make televisions, you make medicines for sick people; realize that and try to behave like one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u25	Mr Nijboer, second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u26	I very much agree with the Minister. I called it scumbag behavior. This is just another effect and an example of it. There are many of them, unfortunately. At the same time, there are patients who are not receiving their medication. So if the Minister's answer is "we're not coming out, we don't want to reward them," I agree with her. But are there any alternatives? There are also people who have said: hand out compulsory licences. There are pharmacists who have said: we can make those medicines ourselves. Are there alternatives if a manufacturer behaves so badly to get those medicines to the patient and indeed not to reward the pharmaceutical companies that behave badly? I commend the Minister for not wanting to do that. I very much agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u27	I fully agree with the PvdA Group that we should look for alternatives. It can't be that the government feels hostage. That's not a healthy situation. That's out of balance. Both ways are at the expense of patients: when I sign, it is at the expense of patients, and if I don't sign, it is at the expense of patients. That's why I'm literally awake from this. That is why I believe that, as a priority, we really need to find solutions to how we can do this better, internationally and nationally. Today I appeal again to the manufacturer: it is a lot of money that can be earned by you here every year; think again in the interests of these patients to give them access and yet make this deal with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u28	It was sad when yesterday afternoon I heard the message that the negotiations had failed. It's sad for the patients and their families, but it also makes them very angry at the same time. I can well imagine the anger of the Minister, as she who is showing us today towards this pharmaceutical. That is why I have the following question. During the hearing, I asked a patent expert how to impose a compulsory license on a pharmaceutical. This will break through the monopoly position of a pharmaceutical company. Is the Minister prepared to take a good look at the expert's analysis of how to do that and then inform the Chamber if it agrees and intends to use it? I am also very curious about the reaction of the pharmaceutical industry to the reasonable proposal made by the Minister, because what is becoming absolutely clear here today is a pharmaceutical that exploits a monopoly position over the back of very sick people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u29	The first point I would like to make. It will certainly look at all the possibilities, including those you just mentioned, the compulsory licence, how the government can better arm itself against this. We're doing that search, and we won't stop it. We're gonna go through with it. So I can promise you that. As regards the second point: the manufacturer of the medicinal product, which you also see in the media, refers to the government and says that we are denying patients access to the medicinal product. Then I say: we are willing to pay a lot of money, 46 million. That's a bandwidth, because it depends on the number of patients. It is particularly about the lower discount. In particular, the bottlenecks were among the lower numbers of patients. As a result, I think you should ask something from a manufacturer who is so convinced of his own product and who is offered so much money, contrary to what I have been advised. Then you can ask that manufacturer to actually take that, especially when you see what he makes of it internationally. If you add that up, you're gonna come up with really big amounts of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u30	No one here will be surprised that the manufacturer is listening, of course. The Minister is very much fetching on that manufacturer and we are the last to take it up for the manufacturer. But how is it that we are now getting the message that Vertex has accepted the offer with the range of between 35 and 43 million? And how is it that there is no agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u31	If that is the case, then we have achieved a great deal together. If this bandwidth based on the patient numbers I've given you is accepted by the manufacturer, then we have a party together. Then I'll sleep a lot better tonight, because then that offer is settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u32	Well, then we have had a nice Question Time with nice results. Then I suggest that the minister with her plastic bag goes back to the ministry, calls immediately, taps and signs off. Then all these kids can take a nice breath and the Minister can sleep quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u33	I have a bit of a problem with this, because I will not be put on the spot to stop children from breathing. First, this medicine has been registered for over 12 years. I understand that it helps emotionally when you bring in kids, but it's over 12 years old. Secondly, we have made this offer. That's what I said here in the Chamber. The room needs to inform you properly. This is the offer we made. You say the manufacturer accepts that. I'll have the people call later and we'll take care of it. But I'm afraid it's because of the conversation I had in person. I didn't let my people take it off; I personally had the conversation. It's been suspended three times, or twice. There's been a call all the time, but unfortunately, they didn't take it. And when they get it, I'll come straight away, at the end of the afternoon with a note to you saying: arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-tweedekamer-2.u34	Thank you.
