ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and give Mrs Bruins Slot the floor on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker. The speaking time per group is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. In June, the Chamber already debated with the Minister the evaluation of the Lower House elections. In fact, we can come to the conclusion that on a number of points things did not deserve the beauty prize. The Minister has rightly indicated that he is going ahead with the changes to the Tickets Act. However, the debate did not highlight the problems of voting abroad, as did the problems of accessibility or assistance in the voting booth. I would therefore like to go further on these two points today. About voting abroad. It is a logistically complex operation and of course it has already been said about it, but in fact I think that the municipality of The Hague has done a difficult job in logistics. The evaluation carried out shows one of the points that mail delivery is a bottleneck. The City of The Hague recommends that the delivery of voting documents in hard-to-reach areas should be subject to the provision of track-and-trace courier services. Maybe the average Dutchman thinks this can be done, but apparently the municipality of The Hague comes to the conclusion that this is not possible within the Kieswet. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to examine the possibilities and the costs of them. A second point and a step further, is the possibility proposed by the municipality of The Hague to offer a personalised letter voting certificate digitally. This could address the current problems of postal delivery. The CDA Group is not yet fully convinced that the digital transmission of key voting documents meets the necessary safeguards of the electoral process, the voting process, but can the Minister address this issue further? In any case, it seems to the CDA Group that it is worthwhile and also important to examine this possibility further. What are the pros and cons? A new model ballot has also been used for voting from abroad, based on the Temporary Experimenting Law Voting Bill and Central Voting Bill, an experiment that runs until 1 January 2021. The new model ballot now used by voters outside the Netherlands makes the cut between voting on a party and voting on a candidate. For the CDA Group, it is important that the evaluation of the experiment with the new voting model should take into account not only the ease of counting but also the effects on the number of preferred votes and the recognizability of the candidates. The Minister states as an option to restart the old bill when it comes to the ballot. The CDA believes that it is desirable not to do so at this stage, because we need to wait for the assessment in a broad sense. Then there is my final point. The Human Rights College, as well as various other interest groups such as VGN and Each one, have all stressed and the CDA also considers it important that the voting booth is accessible to everyone and that people can actively put their right to vote into practice. Therefore, around the Lower House elections the initiative was taken by the Human Rights College for the Unlimited Votes Meldpunt. The College recommends, among other things, that assistance in the voting booth be made possible for people with learning difficulties. I know that there is a long history of this, even from the Constitution in 1983, about whether or not that has been made possible. But yes, we are now many years further and political parties have already received this suggestion on the National Voice Day. Can the Minister indicate what possibilities he sees for meeting this broad-based desire? Is it not important that, given the importance that people with intellectual disabilities can actually vote in person, we should look again at the possibilities and opportunities at this point? As far as I am concerned, we do not have to come up with the ultimate solutions today, but it is important that we all look in the future to see if we can take some further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Engelshoven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Before the summer, we have already had a debate on the mistakes made in counting the votes. At the time, good agreements were reached with the Minister to prevent these errors from being repeated and to initiate a legislative amendment requiring municipalities to make the results public at polling station level. As far as I'm concerned, that's profit. Today we are discussing many other issues relating to the elections. I think it's good to name the turnout. Not only were there rarely so many parties on the ballot, but an increase of 81.9% is also very high. It is good to see that especially in these times of cynicism so many people feel so involved in the democratic process. The large number of parties and the high turnout exposed all the more the shortcomings of our present ballot. It is unclear for voters, especially if they have visual limitations, limited literacy or intellectual disabilities. It also takes a lot of time to count the votes, and the size of these errors makes sense. As far as I am concerned, the OSCE is quite right to recommend the introduction of another ballot. Let there be an alternative now, with which there has also been some experience. On the ballot for Dutch people abroad there are no longer long lists of candidates, but is chosen for a party with a logo and a candidate number. This election again turned out to be an extremely useful ballot. The number of invalid votes was further reduced. I understand very well that the Minister is not going to re-table legislation that has been rejected before. I think we should wait a little longer for that. Perhaps he can continue to tighten up and further develop this banknote for Dutch people abroad and do further tests with the electric countability of this ballot, but also with the use of a mold for this banknote so that visually impaired people can more often vote independently. Because that too is very valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	I'm actually wondering why the Minister has to wait. There are problems with counting due to the shape of the ballot. That's huge. There are experiences with a much more convenient ballot. The Minister has defended a legislative proposal here, of which a majority in the Chamber has unfortunately said that it will not support it. If these parties now say that experience has been gained and that they have looked at it again, and if some of those parties now say that it might be a good idea, then the Minister can simply retable the bill and can we have it settled by March?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yeah, in theory, it could. However, Mrs Bruins Slot also pointed out that there are still a number of questions to be answered. By doing further tests, for example, you can check whether such a note is at the expense of the number of preferred votes. As far as I am concerned, the first experiences are positive and we continue on that path, but this is a huge blow that you make in the change of the banknote. I would argue for some care in that regard too. After all, this is a rather essential change in the way we vote. Much attention has been paid, also in the run-up to these elections, to the right of people with intellectual disabilities to vote themselves. That is also a great democratic asset for them. I ask the Minister to ask the Election Board for advice on how we can arrange assistance in voting for people with mental disabilities, for example by having them assisted by members of the polling office. This seems to me to be preferable because of their independent position to having to vote by proxy, which means that people have much less view of what they are actually voting now. I come to vote from abroad. That can and should be much better. Improvements have also been made, such as the fact that people can register permanently. But there is also low-hanging fruit, such as the colour of the pen or the pencil used, not declaring a voice invalid in an unranked envelope, and even voting with the orange envelopes. What timetable has the Minister set for this and is this better arranged for the 2019 European elections? The Minister further writes that if permanent electoral registration leads to more voting Dutch people abroad, the number of letter polls should increase. Can he clarify that? Where does he see the possibilities for these extra letter polling stations? This should not only be about where most Dutch people vote, but also where it has the greatest added value because of the poor delivery of mail. Mr. Chairman. Finally, one final point. That seems to be a small point, but we are getting the necessary questions about it. For example, for people working on the high seas or for a longer period of time for their work abroad, it is often not possible to give their power of attorney with their electoral card. Then it has to go to such a ship, and then he has to go back with a signature. Would it not be possible for these people to come up with a practical solution which would allow them to exercise their right to vote? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. Before the recess, we talked about the elections, the trial-verbals and the mistakes in counting. Today we are discussing the other aspects of the elections and we are looking at what lessons we can draw from the electoral process for the upcoming elections. In general, I welcome the recommendations made by the Election Board. I would ask the Minister to respond to the recommendations for modernising the electoral process. GroenLinks attaches importance to an inclusive society. That is why I want to focus today on the accessibility of the electoral process for groups in society that have faced concrete obstacles in recent elections. An important condition for the accessibility of the elections is that there are sufficient polling stations. In the run-up to the elections, a number of municipalities have been alarmed about the disappearance of voting locations. There are no rules on the number of polling stations. Because voters are entitled to know where they are going to vote in their municipalities, it is also difficult to predict at which polling stations they will vote. However, I would like to ask the Minister how it is ensured that the distances to polling stations are not too large for people with disabilities. Another important point for GroenLinks is the accessibility of the polling stations themselves. Everyone has the right to vote. This right also applies to people with disabilities. The UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities stressed this right once again. The evaluation shows that there are still many polling stations that are not yet easily accessible to everyone. Can the Minister indicate what percentage of polling stations was accessible to people with disabilities during the elections? One in three people with visual impairment indicates that the electoral process as a whole is difficult to find. Two thirds of people with visual impairment indicate that the ballot is difficult to read. In addition, the fact that it is also very important for these people to be able to vote independently without violating the secret of voting. I would like to ask the Minister what possibilities he sees to ensure the secret of voting for these people in future elections. For example, Germany and Spain also vote with pencil, but there is a possibility for people with visual impairment to use Braille. I await the Minister's response, but I also have a motion in my hand at the moment. I would also ask the Minister to respond to the recommendations of the College of Human Rights to consider voting by post also for voters in the Netherlands. This can really be a solution for people with disabilities. Not only for people with physical disabilities, voices can be complicated, there are many problems for people with intellectual or mental disabilities. They too would like to be able to cast their own votes. At the moment they are opposed to the restriction that they should not be helped in the voting booth. I would ask the Minister to take a closer look at the recommendations of the College of Human Rights on this point. There has also been much to do about the ballots, because they were very large and very unclear during the last elections. The OSCE has recommended making the ballots more accessible. I am well aware that an attempt by the Minister at an earlier stage did not receive sufficient support from the House of Representatives, but I would really ask the Minister to look at it again and make an effort to do so. In addition to the physical accessibility of the voting process, I would also like to draw attention to the social accessibility of elections. We see that specific groups are less involved in the electoral process itself, both at active and passive level. For example, the Gender Election Observation Mission shows that women with a migrant background in particular are less involved in the electoral process. I would like to hear from the Minister a response to these observations and what possibilities he sees to make the electoral process more accessible on this point. I realise that part of the solution lies with the political parties themselves, but there is still a little profit to be made on this point when it comes to information and the work of people working for polling stations. GroenLinks follows initiatives with great interest to increase the participation of specific groups for an inclusive society. For example, district West of the municipality of Amsterdam recently decided that it would be possible to run for office in the upcoming municipal elections for expats and refugees. How does the Minister view these developments at local level?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	I'm almost at the end. If you don't mind. A point of attention is the rise of the Caribbean Netherlands. On the BES islands the turnout in the Lower House elections was again very low. This concerns my group. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	You really need to wrap up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u11	I'm rounding up. There have also been complaints about voting abroad. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. Our political order rests on trust. By means of elections, the electorate entrusts us with Chamber seats. And we as a Chamber then pass on part of that trust to a new government. But then the foundation, the electoral process, must be self-confidence. The smooth running of the elections is essential for our democracy. The right to vote is a constitutional right. All voters should be able to exercise that right. Every vote must count. It is therefore very serious that there have been so many shortcomings in the last parliamentary elections. We have already addressed the Minister in detail, and I am doing it again now. Thousands of votes are not counted. Some voters abroad didn't get their voting cards. Voters from abroad didn't arrive on time. There were polling stations with too few ballots. Many blind and partially sighted experienced unnecessary problems. In an earlier debate we discussed the many problems of counting votes. The Minister confirmed that even if the votes were correctly counted, the result would have been no different, but the procedural problems in elections remain a serious threat to confidence in politics. Implementation needs to be improved and the underlying rules need to be improved. So let us make serious progress on the necessary improvements. In part, there is the problem that the Tickets Act is outdated. In this digital age, the law still focuses on a paper reality. The VVD has long argued in favour of modernising the Election Act. We must distinguish between, on the one hand, the digitalisation of the process as much as possible in the long term and, on the other hand, the partial electronic counting process in the short term. Some procedural deadlines should also be changed, as proposed by the Election Board. The study sent to the Chamber by the Minister on 25 August states that electronic voting would cost hundreds of millions, but the Amsterdam-based company Smartmatic tells me it could be budget neutral. I ask the Minister: is that true? Is it possible it could be a lot cheaper? Dutch people abroad often could not vote in time or their ballot did not arrive in time. Many feel excluded, while Dutch people are now a large group abroad and every voter must be able to exercise the fundamental right of election. How can all this be improved in practice? Are there also improvements for our military on mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Martin Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you. Mr Van Raak, who has been standing here for a while, was kind enough to let me go ahead, because I have a question on Mr Koopmans' previous point. He said electronic voting could be budget-neutral. You can't do that, can you? That always costs money. If you use one computer, it's already costing money. Can Mr Koopmans explain to me how such a budget-neutral could be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u15	I don't want to be the one who claims it's possible. I'm just the bearer of the message that there are people who say that. I can also imagine that you'd save costs if you abolished the old system. Then you have to use it again to introduce a newer system. Theoretically, we can do it. I don't know if it's practical. I'm asking the Minister to see if that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u16	You take care of the Star commercial of a company here and you copy one-on-one what the company claims. And well, abolish the old system... The old system is that we put paper in ballot boxes, in old milk cans. Those are not huge costs that we can save. We have had hearings on this matter far before your time. In addition, the billions fly through space every now and then, that's how much it's gonna cost! But now the VVD here claims it can also be for free. How could that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u17	I'd like to argue for clarity. It is important that the report that the Minister sent to all of us on 25 August, including Mr Bosma, says that it will cost hundreds of millions. We in the VVD would very much like to take steps with electronic voting. We now hear that it could possibly be a lot cheaper. We therefore ask the Minister, without claiming anything of his own accord, whether it can actually be cheaper. I also think Mr Bosma agrees with me that we are modernising the electoral process. We have this debate because so many things have gone wrong. The VVD has been advocating electronic voting for a long time. Now we may have a chance, and maybe that chance is cheaper than the report that is now before us. I therefore believe that it is in the interests of Mr Bosma and in the interests of all of us that we seriously examine this and see if we can save some money by introducing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u18	I remember an initiative law by Mr Taverne in this Chamber. Everything would be free then, too. At that time, we suspected that there was a certain lobby behind it. I think it's good that we're here today to hear which company that was specific. But does Mr Koopmans agree with me that ultimately it costs the community and taxpayers a lot of money when companies like this make a promise that they will be able to carry out difficult public tasks for free and for free?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u19	I am glad that Mr Van Raak reminds me that Mr Taverne has fought for electronic votes for a very long time, but some of us here have unfortunately voted against it. That is very unfortunate for the electoral process. I think it is very important that we continue to examine the possibilities for electronic voting. No matter who does, we will all want it to be as cheap and efficient as possible. The VVD does not make any claim for any party. We merely point out that according to this study it seems to be very expensive. I think we all think that's a bad thing. So let's look at a cheaper solution. The Minister may have the opportunity to investigate these cheaper solutions further. I assume that Mr Van Raak would like to join in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u20	Then let me ask you a question about something that we agree on. In the previous debate with the Minister in June, we all concluded that a number of things need to be changed legally in order to make voting better and safer and to make fewer mistakes. It should be possible to correct errors, to take more time for counting and to make the minutes public. I think the VVD agreed that this legislation should be introduced. Mr Koopmans repeats this now, but that was in June. We've been three months. Does Mr Koopmans agree with me that if we want that to be settled in March, those laws should have been in the Lower House or else should be in the Lower House very soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u21	I do not think it is for me to answer a question that has actually been put to the Minister. In the debate in June, I noted that we should take steps. We'll repeat that here. I think it is right that we should now discuss with the Minister what steps we can take. I would like to dwell on the important problem of the blind and visually impaired. They had a lot of problems with self-voting. Some are present today to strengthen their wish to vote secretly. I'm really glad they're here. Among other things, to help this group exercise their fundamental right, the VVD has been advocating electronic voting for a long time. I thank Mr Van Raak for his support. Can the Minister consider what concrete measures can be taken to help them as long as electronic voting has not been introduced? I am thinking, among other things, of the guaranteed presence of a magnification, a plastic mould, better lighting and better instructions to the polling station. These can be few cost-effective measures. This is not the time for major policy changes. That's up to an upcoming cabinet. We therefore want to come back later on to the major issues such as the overall modernisation of the Election Act and the right to vote, the ballot, digital voting and more. Can the Minister now reflect on the concrete things that can be done to ensure that everyone can exercise their right to vote, even if that person is visually impaired or blind? Finally. The VVD I assume everyone here thinks that everyone should be able to vote freely and secretly. All votes must be counted. Our political system exists in the grace of the voter's confidence. Elections express that confidence. Then the elections themselves must also be trustworthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u22	I hear Mr Koopmans mention a number of suggestions which can make it easier for the blind and the visually impaired to exercise their voting rights independently. I don't hear him mention it here, which is remarkable. It is the smaller ballot note, which then a mold can be put over. You are talking about electronic voting, but I think we still have a very long way to go before that could be done not only efficiently, but also safely. Is that smaller ballot also an option for you in this series?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u23	I ask the Minister to look at all the options and seriously consider how we can improve the voting process. Everything goes with that. I don't want to rule anything out right now. We are asking a number of serious questions about concrete improvements. I think that we should distinguish between the short and long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u24	I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u25	Madam President. I shall begin with a quote from the Minister: 'There must be no shadow of doubt over the outcome'. But what do we see? There were even several shadows above the result. Voting notes for Dutch people abroad were delivered too late or not at all. In some polling stations the bills were on before closing time or the ballot boxes were overcrowded because the turnout was higher than expected. Moreover, thousands of votes were not counted. In Boxmeer only the votes of four parties were counted. The preferred votes per candidate are still only known at electoral level. The proverb is: not the one who votes determines the result, but the one who counts the votes. After closing the polling stations, that starts counting. It is nice that tens of thousands of volunteers want to work for this, but 50PLUS believes that the guarantee for error-free counting at the polling station deserves tightening up. After all, the paper ballots are counted there and the central election office works with minutes at its headquarters. An existing means of control is the right of voters to attend the counting. 50PLUS thinks this beautiful, democratic way is great, because it is close to the voter. But is it being used? We read that the door of polling stations at previous elections was locked during counting. Can the Minister indicate whether this time it was the same? Have people been sent away? Does the Minister have any idea how many voters actually used this right? Is it true that this guarantee is actually a dead letter? And if so, is the Minister prepared to promote this right, for example with a public campaign?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u26	Before you proceed, Mr Van Raak has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mr Krol deals with his own words and subjects; I do not want to enter them. However, I would like to say that we had the debate on the problems of counting during the elections on 20 June. Some conclusions were drawn at that time and even motions were adopted. I also have questions on this subject, but we already had the debate on this on 20 June.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u28	I understand that, but you also understand that I still have questions. Maybe now I'll get the answers I didn't get. Mr. Chairman. There is little control over the candidate voters. Although the vast majority of volunteers undoubtedly want to make a positive contribution to our democracy, it cannot be assumed that all volunteers have the best interest in it. Recently, a message appeared about criminals who would like to infiltrate municipal councils. Pre-knowledge of policies can be lucrative. As a result, fraud in the counting of votes could be close by. Can the Minister indicate whether it is appropriate to demand a statement on the behaviour of candidate voters in future? Or does he have another solution? Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS also requires attention for people with disabilities. It wasn't spotless for them. Two thirds of people with visual impairment have difficulty filling out the ballot. According to the Human Rights College, polling officers were not always aware that people with visual disabilities should receive help in the polling booth and also be allowed to decide for themselves who is providing this help. Is the Minister going to do what to prevent that from happening in the future? And what is the status of the special mould for visually impaired people, which has been mentioned many times, which is already common in Germany and on which the Minister previously informed the Chamber? Digital voting with DigiD could be a solution for people who cannot go to a polling station themselves. Can the Minister indicate whether this will be possible in the future? And is that going to cost money, as I have heard today, or is that even going to make money? I like to hear the answers. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u29	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u30	On 20 June, we already talked about the mistakes in counting the votes. In that debate, the Minister said that all kinds of matters need to be settled, but I will not be sitting here for very long, so my successor will have to do so. We've been three months and the minister is still here. He's been very busy lately. I would like to congratulate him on the performance of the Dutch military and the other Dutch aid workers on Sint-Maarten, Saba and Statia. At a later date, when emergency aid has been granted, we will probably be able to discuss this with each other. During that debate on 20 June, a large majority of this Chamber said that a number of measures should be taken to ensure that we do not have the same problems of counting votes in the municipal elections in March. Now the influence was not so great because of the large numbers, but it will soon be in the municipal elections. This is about the possibility of correcting errors, counting on time, publishing minutes and a number of other cases. If we want to settle these matters by March, I think that legislation should have been there by now. We've been three months. I therefore ask the Minister when these laws will come. When are these legal measures coming, so that we can settle it properly in March? We also discussed the shortage of polling stations in June. Municipalities simply do not set up sufficient polling stations. We talked about the fact that people at polling stations are not sufficiently trained. There was also a motion by myself and Mrs Bruins-Slot. That motion was adopted unanimously. It states that the government, in consultation with the VNG, must ensure that in March there are sufficient polling stations in each municipality, that employees of the polling stations are always adequately trained and that the required checks are always carried out when counting. How's that going? Is that settled now? Is this at least settled? An important point today is the fact that everyone must be able to vote, including the people with disabilities, with disabilities and the visually impaired. Those people should be able to do that in secret, just like everyone else. I have heard a number of suggestions today from spokesmen for practical tools that could be used. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response. I'm very much in favour of ensuring the secret of voting for everyone. So I am not in favour of family, friends, people from political parties, people from mosques or anyone else joining the voting booth, because voting secrecy is not guaranteed for people with disabilities. That's very important. But are there other ways? A number of practical tools have already been mentioned. But is it possible, for example, to appoint someone by voting booth, to train, to teach someone who may be able to accompany people, to the voting booth or perhaps even to the voting booth? Is there any way to do that? But I also know that people working at a polling station often have political preferences. For example, people from political parties are also involved in this. In such a case, of course, we are faced with a problem again. But what practical solutions does the Minister see? Is he also prepared to take measures before the March municipal elections to ensure that anyone with a restriction, whatever restriction, can participate in the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u31	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u32	Madam President. We're approaching a little jubilee. Tomorrow it will be exactly six months since we went to the ballot box to choose the House of Representatives. I'm sure there'll be cake at the negotiating parties who're still in the middle of building a new cabinet. Pending the final outcome of these negotiations, we may now have a further discussion with our outgoing minister on a number of points relating to the conduct of the Lower House elections. I would like to put my brief argument to three key words: care, honesty and transparency. First of all, the issue of care. We have already spoken before the recess about the mistakes that have been made in counting. It is indeed about many thousands of votes. One thing has become clear from this: manual counting is not the alternative to digital voting and/or counting when it comes to reliability. As far as the SGP is concerned, there should be at least a possibility of using all kinds of tools. What possibilities does the Minister see in the forthcoming reclassification elections, which will take place first and for example in the forthcoming municipal elections, to count electronically? Have any steps been taken to this end? There must also be full clarity in the direction of the municipalities on this issue at an early stage. Work should also be carried out as quickly as possible at national level to enable electronic voting tools to be used. There are also complaints about the timely availability of ballots abroad. This is now partly offset by the possibility of permanent electoral registration. Is the Minister convinced that the problems of receiving the ballot too late are completely over and can be avoided in this way? Then the point of honesty. I wholeheartedly agree with my fellow Members that if the voting process is not fair, careful and transparent, it gnaws at the root of our democratic system. There must be no reason to distrust the outcome of the election. The Election Council therefore rightly points out that it should be possible to decide on recounting at municipal level. Will the Minister prepare a bill that will allow for recounting at municipal level? That honesty also includes ensuring that people with disabilities of all kinds are given the opportunity to cast their votes on hundreds of thousands of fellow-nationals, who are Dutch citizens. I admit that this is a difficult point. You absolutely want to guarantee the secret of voting. That is also crucial, but I would like to join those Members who have asked the question: how can we take that a step further? The third point is transparency. We have received several comments about the fact that a vote on a particular candidate is not visible in the result: the preferred vote. Citizens must now go to a town hall to see the results at the candidate level. In our opinion, it would be a good idea to publish this in each municipality, by polling station and by candidate. My question to the Minister is therefore: can the Chamber soon see a legislative change on this issue? One more comment, which I will conclude with. For the purposes of historical research and electoral research, it is important that the electoral results database is and remains complete. According to the advice of the Election Board, a legal power is needed to collect the results per municipality, per candidate. We do not read in the letter that the Minister is going to give the Election Council a legal role to this effect. Is he even planning to come up with proposals for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. On March 21, the last remaining seat was announced. It became my seat, making me the 54th elected female representative in this parliament. 54 women, that is equal to the number of women representatives in this house in 1998. That was 19 years ago. The equality of men and women does not appear to be reflected in political levels of government. What does it say, 100 years after the introduction of passive women's right to vote, that of the thirteen group chairmen in this Chamber there is only one woman? Former President Gerdi Verbeet said that the Chamber should reflect society and that a different composition is good for decision-making. Whoever looks at the numbers sees that the crooked male-female relationship can't be a coincidence. It is a mockery to democracy that the diversity of people in society is so difficult to find a way to the blue seats in this Chamber. Attracting female leaders should be self-evident to political parties. That this is not the case requires firm self-reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u34	This point was also made by the Animal Party at the time of the election campaign. She did, among other things, by making a poster that said Che Guevara. That's where we saw the gentleman depicted. And Che Guevara is a murderer. He killed 14,000 people, executed. He killed people in La Cabaña, in Havana, with his own hands. Is it tasteful for animals to sell the subject, women's right, by using Che Guevara, a psychopathic communist mass murderer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u35	Those are strong words. The poster was intended as a reflection of peaceful resistance, the promotion of vulnerable values for humans, animals, nature and the environment. It refers to the outfit our group leader Marianne Thieme wore on Princess Day. Thus, the poster refers to peaceful resistance. There was a bond with carrots, so it's really about a peaceful resistance and sticking to these ideals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u36	Peaceful resistance? Che Guevara shot kids in the neck, tortured kids with his own hands. As Minister of Economy, he ransacked the entire country. He's taken the country all the way to the begging staff. Someone like that doesn't use the Party for the Animals to sell women's right, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u37	Again, the poster was absolutely not meant to be. It's up to the PVV to take it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u38	After this wonderful appeal to get more women into the Chamber, I would like to point out that my party consists of half women both in the First Chamber and in the Second Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u39	Then you also made your point, Mr Krol. Not at all!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u40	Greetings! The main challenges were only addressed side by side and with fresh reluctance during the election debates. But when we talk about the Wilhelmus, it can be said that this is a kind of top priority from debate to formation table. The Animal Party often hears from women that they think it is a relief that we are doing politically based on ideals, that we stand up for fragile values that transcend the old-fashioned "left-right" thinking and that we have a long-term vision that keeps the Netherlands and the earth generally viable. That's what we're holding on to. These women seem to prefer to focus on a policy that sets a course before there is danger, so not on "compromism" that the conventional power parties have become so addicted to. It is important to realise that an enormous number of women and minorities in our society want to see this society become a reality in our layers of government. Foundations have been set up prior to the Lower House elections and actions have been set up to get as many women as possible into the Chamber. Unfortunately, that objective has not yet been achieved. It is important that political parties provide room for women and minorities who want to contrast the status quo. This contributes to greater diversity and solutions to the major challenges we face, such as climate change and the resolution of the food crisis. I am considering tabling a motion which states the desirability of a cabinet to be formed reflecting the diversity of society. The Gender Concerns International Foundation conducts worldwide research into gender equality in political positions and ballots. She also made observations during our Dutch Parliamentary Elections and published a research report with recommendations on this subject. We understand that the Minister has taken note of this report. Will the Minister reflect on the recommendations? Where does the Minister think it can be done even better in the Netherlands when it comes to gender equality in politics? The organization has had a lot of trouble observing our elections. This has to do with an opaque accreditation system that would allow such organisations access to our voting rooms. Such organisations may gain relevant insights that can be used to improve voting. Is the Minister prepared to make the accreditation system more transparent so that such organisations can carry out research more easily? Finally, Mr President. Let us be clear that the structural imbalance between men and women in our Parliament is no coincidence. It's a democratic deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr. Chairman. Elections are the cornerstone of our democracy. This is the day when the people decide the future of the country. That is why the electoral process must be careful and correct. We at DENK therefore find it very regrettable that thousands of votes were lost on 15 March, votes that were not counted, votes that went to another party. There are even votes that have never been cast. Not only within our borders, but also abroad, Dutch voters have been victims; victims of a bureaucratic system that is not working properly. Because there have been voters who have not received their ballot until after the elections. Some of them haven't received anything. This, while a record number of Dutch people had registered as voters abroad. These citizens have been denied their constitutional rights. Some of them have even brought an interim action against the State; that is a pity. This kind of event further undermines confidence in our democracy. Elections don't take place every day. That is why we of DENK believe that we should never cut back on democracy. How is it that 110 polling stations were less organised on 15 March compared to the national elections in 2012. This, while the turnout was 6% higher in 2017. I'd like a response from the Minister. We believe that we should invest in our democracy, and in particular in the transparency and quality of our democracy. That is why I have a number of proposals, firstly in the area of transparency. Can we, for example, place mobile cameras during the count so that everyone can count? 100% transparency, no doubt, no mistrust. I'd like a response from the Minister. I see that the Minister is doing something, but I would like to have a reaction from him in a moment. We are also in favour of the experiment of centralising ballots during the municipal elections, so that several people can control them. How many municipalities have signed up for this experiment so far? Then the quality. In the previous debate, we tabled a motion on training for voters. We continue to regard this point as very important for the quality of our democracy. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether and how this motion will be worked out. I would also like to mention the members of the polling stations and their composition. There is nothing to read in the evaluation documents. Is the Minister prepared to investigate the composition of the polling stations and the representativeness of their members? We would like more young people to vote as a member of the polling committee. I'd like a response. I'm rounding up. Democracy is innovation. And democracy sometimes also needs new energy. Young people and new parties can also help us with this. We believe that we should involve our young people more in the electoral process. DENK calls for more polling stations to be set up at MBO, HBO and WO educational institutions. Let us bring local politics closer to young people. But we must not only call on our young people to vote, we must also dare to entrust our democracy to them and give them a piece of responsibility. Therefore, in the run-up to the municipal elections, let us launch a public campaign to recruit more young people as voters. I already have an idea for a name: let democracy lit, become a polling station member. The word "lit" with a t seems to be a widely used word among young people nowadays. All madness: let us do everything we can to involve young people in our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u42	Mr Martin Bosma had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u43	Hey!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u44	One of the incidents during the last election occurred in Amsterdam-Oost in Joubertstraat. That's where people had to vote in a Diyanet mosque. Diyanet is simply the Turkish Ministry of Religious Affairs. So you're actually walking on Mr. Erdogan's territory. And there were all Turkish flags.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u45	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u46	A lot of people were very upset about that. That came in the publicity. The mayor of Amsterdam was very correct and at least removed those Turkish flags and pamphlets from that terrible Diyanet. Was Mr Öztürk pleased with the intervention of Mayor Van der Laan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u47	Fortunately, in the Netherlands we have polling stations in many places, including in other religious communities and sometimes also in institutions that have xenophobic ideas, the ideas of the PVV. There are also polling stations. I think that in Amsterdam a few people complained and that the right-wing xenophobic media have been pushing it up to give you material so that you can ask me this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u48	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u49	And I think it's resolved well in Amsterdam in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u50	That xenophobic ideology is called "Islam" and people have to vote in a mosque. That's bad enough in itself. But how do you feel about the Dutch, just Dutch, voting at a polling station where all Turkish flags hang? Turkey - you will agree with me - is a terrible dictatorship. Mr Erdogan is a dictator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u51	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u52	If you could just give me a second...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u53	Yeah, but you're talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u54	No, don't talk through it, Mr Öztürk. Do you complete your question, Mr Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u55	My question is very simple. Does Mr Öztürk understand that the Dutch feel unheimish at a polling station full of Turkish flags of an Islamic dictatorship?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u56	I think that in Amsterdam-East everyone is happy to vote in a mosque. If there's one dictator in this room, it's your boss. You're Geert Wilders' servant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr Öztürk...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u58	You are here as a servant trying to raise a subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr Öztürk, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u60	Through the chairman, I believe that Mr Bosma is a servant of the dictator Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u61	I now give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u62	Thank you, Mr President. It has been said before: elections are, of course, the foundation of our parliamentary democracy. If we no longer have confidence in elections, that also undermines the trust we have and need to have in parliamentary democracy. That is what everything is based on, and so the elections must be flawless. In practice, we saw a lot going wrong in the last election. Thousands of votes have not been counted, including in Bergeijk and Boxmeer. The Political Academy comes to 14,000. We had an interesting debate on this in June. The Minister has said that everything has gone wrong, especially when counting, and that mistakes have been made. He also said that a number of things would be improved. In addition, he said that he could not do everything, because it required a change of law and it was already June. He wouldn't make it before March, because it still had to be written and then passed the Upper House, the Lower House and the Council of State. He said this at the end of the debate: 'I will do my best, but I cannot promise that everything will be settled by then'. I didn't understand that at the time. It was June, but such a law is not very complicated. You don't have to change the Constitution three times. A couple of civil servants working for a while actually did it in a couple of weeks. It's not legally full of hooks and eyes. So why couldn't I? I had that question then, but the Minister made his statement at the end of the debate, so I ask him now: why should this take so much time? And why did everything have to go wrong in the elections before the Minister, who is dealing with this and who has a system responsibility for the elections, found out that there is a problem that needs to be resolved through legislation? Why is it so complicated? Why does it take so long? Why wasn't the problem known before? The minister could have seen this coming, couldn't he? And what exactly has improved since then? Serious things have gone wrong. Is everything in the cans and jars for March now? Then the municipal elections are; I'm not telling you anything new. They are much more local than Lower Parliamentary elections. Is there sufficient national control of that? My impression is that municipalities do this all by themselves, in their own way, and that there is hardly any control. Should we fear that things will go wrong again? Shouldn't we go to a protocol or regulation to determine how that count should be done? There must be sufficient transparency. Does there have to be a notary? Should there be a second count? Everyone should be able to be there. Shouldn't that be centralized so that we don't get all kinds of misunderstandings? Shouldn't we record in such a protocol, or whatever you want to call it, that people should be trained, that there should be enough people and maybe there should be multiple shifts in one day? Because if I started in a polling station at 8.00 a.m. in the morning and finished counting at 3.00 a.m., I'd put a ballot on the wrong pile. Shouldn't that kind of thing be taken care of centrally? We're probably gonna run into new problems. A number of points have already been made. What does the Minister think of the recommendations of the Election Council? What's his reaction to that? There must be enough polling stations. A motion has been passed on that. Is that settled now? There are 110 polling stations less. Is that all in jugs and jugs now? It has been said before: the turnout was very high, namely 81%. That must remain the case, but there must be enough polling stations. Is that settled? In previous elections, we saw all kinds of excesses. Whole families stayed in voting booths. Imam's gave clues there. We have seen excesses around the Diyanet Mosque in Amsterdam-Oost within walking distance of the Minister's residence. Of course, that should not happen again. We shouldn't vote in mosques at all. Points on visually impaired people, accessibility and people with disabilities have already been made. I'd like to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u63	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister can respond immediately, so the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr. Chairman. Let me thank Mr Van Raak for pointing out that we are in a crisis situation in Saint Martin and that many people are making a big contribution at the moment. We are also in that state of crisis at BZK and are currently working on it 24/7. I take this opportunity to draw attention to tomorrow's action of the Red Cross: giro 5125. I'll kick that off at 6:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Let's switch back to this afternoon's topic. First of all, I will deal with the voting process, ballots, electronic voting and so on. Secondly, I will deal with the subject of helping people with disabilities in voting in the electoral booth, which many have raised. Thirdly, I come to vote from abroad. I shall then try to answer a number of questions per speaker. I always try to answer the questions on the spot as much as possible, but since this debate is now spreading very widely, I do not rule out the possibility that I may have to undertake to answer a number of specific questions by letter. But I will try to do as little as possible. First of all, the voting process. Mr Koopmans asked for electronic voting. We have had a lot of debates on this, so let me briefly say that I have been trying to do so for four years. When I arrived, Mrs Jorritsma of the VNG said to me: if there is one issue where a win-win can be won, it is electronic voting; just do it. I then asked Mr Van Beek, including the VVD, to chair a committee that advised on electronic voting. He took back a proposal from Mr Korthals Altes that if it were to happen, it would have to be done in a polling station with a printer and a counter. I then asked the Van Beek Committee for a second opinion. I asked to map how many machines would be needed and what that would cost. An estimate came out of that. Then, in consultation with the House of Representatives, I decided to explore the market. Mr Taverne was also very much in favour of this at the time. This means that it would cost about EUR 300 million. I understand from Mr Van Zanen of the UNG that the UNG is now saying that it will not bear those costs. That is the state of play on this point. I don't feel like I'm in a position right now to speculate about that market exploration. I hear a lot of people say that such a market exploration is often relatively cheap, but in practice it turns out to be more expensive if you actually do it. I just assume that this exploration has been done bona fide and that such an order of magnitude of cost will be one-off anyway. But every year it also costs something, because you have to keep track of, maintain and update those things. That is the position, but I do not think that the process is going to stop, I say in the direction of Mr Koopmans. It is now ready and my successor can bring this further on the basis of the preparatory work that has been done. At the same time, I hope that the better doesn't have to be the enemy of good. I've been waving this before, but this is the ballot issued to voters abroad. 400,000 Dutch people vote this way. By the way, it is also useful for people with disabilities because it has a logo on it, so people can recognize the image of a party. If they vote on it, that vote shall be cast. If they wish to vote in favour, they can vote in favour below. This has been evaluated and those evaluations have been shared with the House of Representatives. This shows that 7% of voters voted only on a list and that, apparently, 93% of voters voted below 1, 2 or 3 et cetera. You have that evaluation, and you know my opinion on it. Let me add that such a note would fit into a mould which would make it easier for people with visual impairment to read the small numbers. We even have a beautiful version with Braille so that people who are totally visually impaired can single-handedly vote with such a note. That's not new in the world, because it looks a lot like the German banknote. They have a slightly different format: Sie haben eine Stimme. There's Braille on it and a number. We could follow that example, but we need to change the law and I am no longer in a position... The law's ready. Let us put it this way: I hope to be able to see from the sidelines how the ball that is now on the middle tip is kicked off by a successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u65	Thank you for this visual support from the Minister. The Minister is right to say that this can be a solution to various problems in terms of, for example, counting and accessibility, including for visually impaired people. The law is there. So it seems that it is up to the Chamber to ask the Minister to re-table the law now. Did I get it that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u66	First of all, thank you for reminding me of an aspect that I did not mention, but indeed: this can be counted quickly. On the election night you initially only have to count the top part and then you have the result at list level in no time. But it can also be counted electronically because these A4s fit in a simple scanner. I hadn't mentioned those benefits. I submitted a bill to the Chamber, but it didn't make it. Not everyone will be convinced in advance. I do not think it is my place to start the process now, but I hope that there will be a cabinet in four weeks or so and perhaps it will be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u67	Then it will be very short day before March.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u68	Frankly, with all the support of Mr Van Raak, I think that we are virtually not going to make it through the whole of March.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u69	Well, well, well. We can still do that, because the law is already in place. In fact, the law has already been dealt with. So a great deal of work has already been done, including in terms of advice and so on. The Council of State can advise very quickly, which is the same as last time. I do think it is possible, and I would point out that the Minister is outgoing, but the Chamber is not. I am still considering tabling a motion in the second term to instruct the Minister to submit that law quickly so that we can have it settled by March.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u70	But Mr Van Raak, that law has been rejected by the Chamber. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u71	That is true, but I am now hearing voices from parties who have rejected this law, that such a ballot can be a very good idea and offer a solution. They all see advantages in that. Apparently, a number of groups have gradually come up with the idea that it may not have been wise to amend that law. I can see a possibility that they're in front of it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u72	Mr. Chairman. And it's a new room. It has been dealt with by the previous Chamber. That is what the voting process is about. Maybe I can add something to that. Mr Koopmans asked and Mrs Van Engelshoven also mentioned it, namely whether there is otherwise support for people with visual impairment. The rule is that a check must be made in all voting rooms by default. I will remind the congregations before the forthcoming elections that the members of the polling stations must know that this is the way it should be done. I am also prepared to engage in discussions with the organisation of visually impaired persons to check whether the scope currently being used is adequate or whether there is a need for even greater use of guns. I admit that in the election circular which is sent to the municipalities prior to each election, I will point out to the congregations that when setting up the polling room, they must pay attention to sufficient lighting so that people with visual impairment can get as much light as possible. For the rest, I refer to what I have just said. I think that is what I have been discussing here. A second issue that concerns Members, and me too, is to support people with disabilities who, despite their limitations, attach themselves to voting. Of course, there is always the possibility of another voting, but I can see very clearly that there is a commitment to exercising this civil right as much as possible. Let me tell you what the Tickets Act says about it, because the voting process is regulated by law and I am standing here to enforce the law. Of course, we can always reconsider it, but the Election Act says in Article j28: "When it appears to the polling station that a voter needs help because of his physical condition, it allows him to be assisted." In the explanatory statement, it says: "The presence of a mental disorder cannot be a reason to allow assistance, for in that case there is no guarantee that the vote will be cast in accordance with the will of the electorate." So that's the law now. I can very well imagine that a category of voters cannot do it on their own. This concerns, for example, people who, because of a cognitive limitation, have difficulty in remembering something, or who are delusional, so who for a short time lose what they actually find and who afterwards wonder what they have done, because they did something different than they wanted to do. I don't want to put it in one category. It's about people who have any mental disorder or disability that they can't do themselves. The law does not allow them to be helped in the voting booth. Unlike people with physical disabilities, this category cannot exclude the fact that a different vote is being cast than intended. For example, someone else can lead the hand of someone with parkinson when casting his voice. It is then certain that it is also intended to cast that vote. The law does not allow this for people with mental disabilities. There has been an amendment in the past. I have the parties here: that amendment was rejected by a clear majority. So that's the situation. I'm in no position to reconsider that. If we wanted to do that, we would have to start a whole process of reconsidering that point. I must honestly say that I do understand the legislator's consideration. You really want to be sure that someone in the voting booth is voting as he means, and that no one else can have a leading role in it, not even a family member or someone from the polling booth. They are often people who are politically involved, which is, by the way, very much appreciated. For this category, the voting shall remain by proxy. This has all kinds of other disadvantages, which not only apply to this category. There's nothing I can do about that right now. That is the state of play on this subject. For the reason I gave, the Netherlands gave an explanatory statement to the OSCE Convention that there is support for assistance, but that this should be read as: up to the voting booth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u73	I understand that very well, because the voting secret must apply to everyone. But there is also, for example, a separate category for visually impaired people. Mr Koopmans has already made a number of suggestions. I've heard other suggestions, too. Is it possible to create practical tools in the voting booth? And would it be possible to appoint someone from the polling station, to train or whatever, to accompany someone? So not a family member, someone from a political party or from a mosque or whatever, but someone designated to do so, and who might have to take an oath or something? Is that a passable path, or does the Minister think it is also contrary to the obligation of confidentiality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u74	I'll give you that first one. I will look again at whether the tools available, such as a magnification and sufficient lighting, can be even better. As far as the second point is concerned, I cannot escape saying that no matter how many people take oaths, it is ultimately contrary to the text and the explanatory statement of the Election Act as it stands. So if one wished, there would have to be a change in the law on this point. The subject of voting abroad has also changed in the wake of previous debates. Mrs Engelshoven, Mr Koopmans and most of the other speakers have already asked. 88% of foreign voters who wanted to vote by letter voted. This is similar to the Dutch Parliamentary Election in 2012. In the next election, the voters who are in the permanent registration no longer have to apply for registration, so the city of The Hague can send those voters much earlier than in previous elections, and therefore very well before the day of the votes, all the letter voting evidence, i.e. the equivalent of the voting pass in the Netherlands. The ballot can be sent to the electorate by e-mail, so the voters can receive it immediately after the final decision has been made on which parties and candidates to participate. Then they have about five weeks to post the vote on time. That is the measure that has now been put into effect. The aim is to set up as many letter voting offices abroad as possible, so that the letter vote does not necessarily have to be sent by post to The Hague. This will also prevent the late reception of votes. I've already had questions about that. I will come across the answer in a moment about voting at a letter polling office. From the suggestion of the mayor of the City of The Hague to vote by international courier, the mayor rightly notes that this has financial implications. The cost of shipping by courier is really many times higher than the cost by post. I do not have any resources for this in my BZK budget at the moment, so if a decision had to be taken, that would be up to the next cabinet. But I honestly believe that with this permanent registration and those five weeks, we will come to an end and that it may be, but that is up to a next cabinet, that it will not be necessary to vote by courier. The Hague has already registered 500 000 persons who, according to the basic registration, live abroad. So far, 38,000 people have registered as voters. Actions will be launched to draw the attention of the Dutch abroad to the possibility of voting from abroad. I think I have answered most of the questions. From abroad they have therefore voted with the banknote that I have just shown. The number of invalid votes was 0.23% last time, at the first experiment, and 0.19% last time, so that's extremely low. We are still working on proposals, which would aim to amend the law, to replace, for example, orange return envelopes and to do so in a different colour. There are all kinds of good intentions to do that in orange, which we can always reconsider. That should be done by law. The one about voting abroad. I come across a single part of it when I answer the questions in the order of the speakers. Mrs Van Engelshoven asks about people with a sailing profession. The voters are often resident in the Netherlands and receive a regular voting pass. The problem is that they will then be on the move and unable to vote in the voting room and therefore cannot give the voting card a direct power of attorney so that someone else can vote. The most obvious solution is that the electorate authorizes someone in writing, but he has to make a written request to the municipality. He doesn't have to do that in person. The voting pass can then be sent to the person in the Netherlands who is authorised. The Election Act provides for a minimum period of time for applying for a written authorisation, five days before the day of the vote. Requests for written authorisation can therefore be made well before the election day. Another option is to register with the municipality of The Hague as a voter abroad because he or she will temporarily stay abroad on the day of the vote. This can only be done for the election of the House of Representatives, the European Parliament and consultative referenda. When submitting the application for registration, the data subject may choose to give a power of attorney to another voter or voter. The Tickets Act only provides a minimum period for the submission of an application, six weeks before the day of the vote. The application for registration can therefore be made well before the elections. The timetable for the legislative amendment of voting abroad aims to amend the Election Act in time for the elections of the European Parliament in May 2019. The bill is now being drafted. I told you I'd come back to the letter polls. Now there are about twenty, only outside Western Europe, so for example not in Germany, Spain or France, but in those countries many Dutch live and the mail is not always efficient. Think of the Greek islands, for example. So in these countries too, an embassy could have a letter polling office. I'd like to consult with the Secretary of State if that's possible. Mr Özütok asked about the number of polling stations...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u75	Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u76	Mrs Özütok, excuse me. She asked whether consultations with the municipalities were ongoing. It is true in the system that the municipalities are free to set up that number themselves. It is therefore a core task of the municipalities. One could say that it is one of the basic tasks of the municipalities to carry out the electoral process. That is also financed by the lumpsum. In this case, there is indeed no financial incentive for municipalities to maximise this number. No one in the municipality thinks so, but of course it should not be the reason to cut back on it. I'm consulting with the VNG on this. It is, however, a reason why I have always been careful when it comes to accessing the polling stations to a percentage, because if the number is not fixed but the percentage is, you would indeed encourage municipalities to close down polling stations because otherwise they would count in the wrong row. So we don't want to. By the way, the good news is that accessibility in the last elections scores 8.2, so that has gone up compared to the past. That information was also sent to the Chamber. That figure could go up even further. So there's still some things to win. Because of the implementation consequences, I would like to leave it to the next cabinet to respond to the investigation that has been carried out and to decide on the entry into force of the amendment on that point. At least it's heading in the right direction. Mrs Özütok also asked about the low turnout at the BES. Yeah, it's a shame. The Lower House elections don't matter. The criticism heard was that the participating parties are invisible there. I can't do much about that. Part of the problem is that the political parties do not correspond one-on-one with people on the island council. Of course, that island council isn't that big. So one can't put a face on it locally. Let us be honest, in many Dutch municipalities the national political parties are also represented in the city council. Well, that'll help with the choice process. At least we're doing everything we can. We recently had a constitutional change here and in the First Chamber to ensure that people also have the right to vote in the First Chamber at the BES, but indeed people could make more use of this possibility. Mr Krol asked if I could see the number of people present when counting the votes. I don't have any exact numbers left. In my perception, it's rare for people to come and look at the counting of the votes. I would like to call on the municipalities to make public the possibility of being present at the time of counting, because it can take care that something wrong happens. There's nothing to hide. There is an explicit possibility, so we will point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u77	The minister has passed from the second block to the third block. So I'm gonna get back to voting abroad. I had also asked a question about The Hague's suggestion to investigate the digital transmission of crucial voting documents in order to determine whether this is a way to achieve the desired time savings. I was curious to see how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u78	Thank you for pointing this out to me. That is quite different from what I have just talked about. I mentioned this in the evaluation of the Lower House elections. Work is under way on a bill to amend the Tickets Act in that respect. The provision of a replacement letter voting certificate or, as suggested by the City of The Hague, a duplicate of the letter voting certificate is also included in that bill. I am prepared to examine whether the letter voucher can be sent to the electorate electronically and whether that is possible in a reliable way. Mr Krol asked whether a DigiD vote would be possible in the future. We are indeed talking about voting on the Internet. We've had a lot of discussions about that. I've promised in the past to test there, and that's something other than experimenting with it, just to try and figure out how that would work. That's still going on right now. I must honestly say that due to the recent concerns about hacking, just from the counting process, my enthusiasm for voting over the Internet has not increased. You're always stuck with the integrity of the voting process. You come here on a whole different terrain. DigiD is very sound and sound, but it is another matter to rule out 100% that a foreign power, if it wishes, can be included and that there is no doubt about it. Mr Krol asked whether it would be desirable to demand a statement on the behaviour of the members of the polling bureau. I'll discuss that suggestion with the congregations. I would like to know whether this is feasible and what consequences that could have for finding sufficient members for the polling station. Mr Bishop reminded us that tomorrow, I believe, it will be six months since we had elections. I was in the Caribbean this week, as you know, and I discussed there with the governors of the Caribbean countries that it is time that the Netherlands might be given an indication under the Kingdom Statute, so as to make the establishment of a new government serious in the context of sound administration. No, of course it's a country matter, and we're all waiting for it with interest. Mr Bishop asked whether steps had already been taken to count the ballots electronically in the municipal elections. No, the current ballot cannot be counted electronically. The only way to do that is if there's another bill. Then I come to Mr Bishop's question as to whether I could have the Election Board keep a database. That could be and, as far as I can see now, there is no legal basis for that. So they can decide to do so on their own. I promise I'll talk to them about that. Mrs Arissen made a glowing plea for more women in politics. As a former Minister of Emancipation, I recognise that discussion very well. You understand that the lists are made by the political parties. One party is quite accurate in that fifty-fifty system or goes even further in that, while other parties do not. I cannot, of course, interfere with the list of candidates and it is now in Mrs Bussemaker's portfolio, but in general the government is enameling. It is really idiotic that you should say it so often that in all ways the differences disappear. That certainly has all the attention of the cabinet. There is a general public campaign "Every Voice Count" which points out the importance of voting to all voters. In all respects, we try to enter it as much as possible. Mr Öztürk asked how many municipalities have reported for the experiment with central voting in the municipal elections. That's about fifteen. They've expressed their interest. Final participation requires a Council decision and a decision of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It will be decided later this year. Finally, Mr Bosma asks a logical question about the improvements that we have discussed before in connection with the elections and for which a legislative proposal should be drawn up. I sent a letter on 30 June. In this context, I would like to comment on the question of whether, in view of the delegation status, I will take the initiative for new legislation. I will conclude by saying that there are a number of points where improvement can be made, that I map these improvements and that I leave the final decision to the next cabinet. These include the extension of the time-limit between the day of the vote and the day of the first meeting of the House of Representatives, the decentralisation of any recounting, the tightening of the rules for the use of supporting software for calculating the result and the regulations to determine what the polling agency app should comply with. We are preparing this now, including in the consultation process, and I expect to be able to submit this bill to the Chamber in the first quarter of next year, so that, if that timetable is maintained, it can enter into force for the combined State and Water Council elections as well as for the island council elections of March 2019. So that's the timetable at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u79	I see all kinds of members standing close to the interrupting microphone. I call Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u80	I do not wish to interrupt the Minister, but it is not clear to me whether he is done with his answer or whether he is going to continue answering some of the questions I have asked. As a reminder, I asked a question about the cost of possibly voting electronically and I asked how we could possibly do something more for our soldiers abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u81	First of all, I believe that I did discuss the question of the cost of electronic voting in that block. A market survey has been carried out, which amounts to the amount that I have sent to the Chamber. That's the score. We should now be discussing whether next steps should be taken, given the advice of the Van Beek Commission and the market exploration, but that is really up to a new cabinet with the municipalities. I would first like to know from the VNG whether it is prepared to bear the possible costs, regardless of whether market exploration is too high or too low. Left or right will have to bear the cost of a process the costs of which are now borne by the municipalities and for which BZK now has no money in the budget. Either a new cabinet should bring this to itself, so to BZK, or the municipalities should be prepared to accommodate these costs. That is the state of play on this point. I have not treated military people abroad in any way other than others who are abroad for other tasks. They are fully covered. They are also certainly well reachable for pre-registration. Someone who is somewhere in the interior of some country may be difficult to reach, but that does not have to apply to the military. I therefore believe that this offers good solutions for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u82	About that last point. I appreciate the fact that the Minister has opened special polling stations in certain mission areas, such as Mali. The specific point, however, is that there are also soldiers on mission in very small areas. They're standing right there in front of all of us. Are there more things we can do for, for example, the people who are in South Sudan or in other small mission areas? That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u83	Let me say that I will take this point with the Minister of Defence to see if there is a problem. If so, we will ensure that we find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u84	I also do not know whether the Minister has finished replying. I had two more questions. The Gender Election Observation Mission shows that women with a migrant background in particular are less involved in the electoral process. I asked the Minister about a response to these observations, as well as what possibilities he sees to improve them. My second question concerned the initiative of the West district of Amsterdam to give expats and refugees the right to vote to participate in the forthcoming municipal elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u85	As far as the first is concerned, I have said that there is a public campaign, every vote counts, which is aimed at everyone in width, but also at specific groups. That's what it says. As regards the second, the law provides fairly precise rules on who has the right to vote and not the right to vote. I can't just change that. You really need to change the law. I don't know what the proposal would be, but I can't promise it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u86	The minister says gender equality has some kind of top priority within the government. I did not want to stress that '50/50' is the problem, but it is a structural problem that women are not represented in proportion in all levels of government. The Party for Animals is not really for a om-and-over system that is artificially imposed on parties. We see much more in a transformation of culture within political parties, so that more attention is paid to long-term vision. Will the Minister respond to that? I had also asked if the Minister could respond to the recommendations of Gender Concerns International. The organization has had serious difficulty observing our elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u87	First of all, I am not talking about compiling the lists. I am a member of a political party that does know the om-and-round system. It may be a bit mechanical in its operation, but the effect is always that it becomes around 50%, regardless of the number of seats obtained. Each party needs to know how it does it. I had already mentioned a number of recommendations from Gender Concerns International. They also asked for the election dates to be broken down into gender. That is difficult, because the starting point is that after the pass is handed in, it is no longer stated whether the person concerned is a man or a woman. I referred to campaigns to encourage votes. We feed it. It was also recommended to explore the possibilities of strengthening the understanding of the electoral process, in particular of the power of attorney, among ethnic minorities, and to ensure that that information is provided in a language that is in the group's control. That recommendation ignores the fact that only Dutch citizens are entitled to vote in the Dutch Parliament. In that light, you can assume that the voters have some control over the Dutch language. Consultation with political parties on how to increase the number of women on the list of candidates goes too far from my position. In the end, parties have to do it themselves. These are some of the recommendations of that organisation. I don't know about the observation position. It is also not entirely the case that anyone can simply register as an observer. So I should take that and find out. Maybe I can respond to that on another occasion and tell you what's going on. But I do not believe that every foundation from abroad can just say: I want to be an observer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u88	Finally, Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u89	Could the Minister indicate when he will be able to return to the accreditation system for such research institutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u90	I'm standing here trying to avoid letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u91	Perhaps you could return to it in your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u92	Yeah, I can try that. Otherwise, this question will have to be answered by letter later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u93	I have received so many promises from the Minister that I still touch with some hesitation. The minister said he was going to talk to the municipalities about the right of voters to attend the counting of the votes. But, of course, there is something you could do nationally to promote that. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u94	Yeah, I'm telling you. There's always a national rise campaign. This point will be added to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u95	I have asked two questions that have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u96	I'm not done, either. I still have the name "Öztürk" here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u97	So you will have your turn, Mr Öztürk. A little patience. You can wait at the PVV, next to Mr Bosma; he offers you a chair. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u98	Mr Öztürk asked about the training for each member of the polling station. During the Lower House elections there was a handful of municipalities that had not trained the voters. However, the law prescribes training. I will draw the attention of the congregations to this. Even if voters have been members of the polls for years, it is important that they receive training every time in elections. The rules change regularly, so that's a point well tasks. That's what we're gonna do. That was the question I wrote down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u99	I had called for more young people to be involved in the elections as a member of the polling committee. Is the Minister prepared to launch a campaign to make more young people work as voters so that they can see how our democracy works all day long?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u100	I admit that, but I would like to point out that, for example, ProDemos is doing nothing but that. There's a lot going on in that area. When you walk around here, you see how young people are constantly involved. So that's not a new thought. But the more we can do, the better, because it is the future citizens who are entitled to vote, even if they have not yet reached the voting age. I am therefore committed to doing everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u101	I thank the Minister for that. Many young people do not know that they can earn €150 on such a day. Perhaps the campaign should also take that piece with it to excite young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u102	Can they make 150 bucks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u103	Yeah, as a polling station member.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u104	Oh, okay. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u105	I have received an answer to Mrs Arissen's question. In addition to OSCE observers, other observers were present at the Lower House elections. That was new. As a result, the admission took some time. For the future, we take into account several observation missions. The rules for accreditation are clear; they are laid down in the Election Act and in the underlying regulations. I have already answered part of the question. But if there is any further need to come back to it, I suggest that I undertake to do so in the budgetary procedure for BZK. Then I thought I'd run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u106	Let us now move on to the second term of office. I'll see if there's a need. That's the case. I call Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the various commitments, especially because he clearly states that he is once again working with municipalities to give even more attention to the accessibility of voting booths and voting himself for people with disabilities. That is not just about tools or better instruction. For example, the Minister should think of temporary disabled parking places so that people can reach the location properly. My question to the Minister is whether he can, of course, send us a letter as a Lower House in the run-up to the municipal elections, in which he reports back to us on what has been discussed and what follow-up actions have been taken. I believe that this is also important for us to be able to follow carefully what further steps need to be taken. I fully agree with the Minister when he says that track-and-trace transmission is far too expensive for all areas abroad. That seems pretty weedy to me. But I think the suggestion of the city of The Hague is to make an exception in the very difficult areas by using track and trace. The city of The Hague said that there is an obstacle in the law, and I agree with the Minister that there is, of course, a price tag attached to it. My question to the Minister is: would he like to go on these two specific points in further consultation with the municipality of The Hague, which is going to vote abroad, and give a feedback? How many hard-to-reach areas would it be and what exactly would be the price tag? I'm rounding up. We have indicated a number of areas for legislation in the Chamber. There was no vote, Mr Van Raak, at least as far as the CDA is concerned. I do agree with Mr Van Raak that we need to hear about the laws that we have all said they should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u108	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer and his attention to accessibility. The Minister referred to a number of aid options. I would like attention to be focused on this wider accessibility. That is why I have tabled a motion, co-signed by Mrs Arissen and Mr Van Raak. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the evaluation of the Parliamentary Parliamentary Elections of 15 March 2017 shows that many voters with disabilities experience obstacles in voting;]] [[Whereas people with disabilities also have the constitutional right to cast their votes while keeping the secret of voting;]] [[Whereas there are good examples abroad of ways in which people with visual impairment can express their voices independently, such as the use of Braille;]] [[Considering that in its report on the accessibility of elections to people with disabilities, the College of Human Rights makes various recommendations to improve the electoral process for people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine what measures can be taken to remove obstacles to people with disabilities as far as possible and to inform the Court of Justice before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok, Mr Arissen and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u109	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering the questions and for the commitments he has made on several points. I'll just remind you of that one. First of all, helping our soldiers abroad, in all mission areas, big and small, to cast their votes. I would add another possibility for others. Is there another option to open polling stations in very large population concentrations, including non-military ones? I am also thinking of the very important commitment for the blind and visually impaired. They must be able to vote independently and secretly as much as possible. I'll mention better lighting, a magnification, instructions to the polling station. I think it is very important for the Minister to say that he will continue to work on this. I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u110	When we spoke on 20 June, the Minister made it very clear that a number of things need to be changed legally in order to improve the counting, control and transparency. I then assumed that this had been decided at the Ministry, that those laws were in preparation and that they would be filed immediately after the recess. Then we could have arranged it all by March. How's that going? When can these things be submitted? The minister gave a nice performance with the new ballot. I think that can really solve a number of things. I'm thinking about counting and people with visual impairment. I do not understand why the Minister is not prepared to re-table a law on this matter. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to submit a legislative proposal for a new ballot as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u111	Of course, that could be the bill that is already before the Ministry, on which the Minister has given such a beautiful presentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u112	... and of which the House of Representatives has said: we do not want that. The coalition partner of the Labour Party, the VVD, strongly opposed this in Mr. Taverne's person. We've said no in the House of Commons. We're not gonna file motions for every law we've rejected to file the law again, are we? Then we'll have to meet day and night later. The House of Representatives has been clear, hasn't it? The VVD would like to sound reliable, so it will vote again, if that law comes by again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u113	That's possible, but fortunately the Chamber is more than the VVD. From a number of other groups that initially voted against the law for a new ballot, I hear now: gosh, we should look at a new ballot! Then I think we've just had a proposal. At that time, a number of parties said that they did not like it, but it seems that there is now discussion in a number of political groups because they do have bad experiences with the ballot at the last elections. They have seen that it is difficult to count and control, that it is not transparent and that it is difficult for people with disabilities, for example a visual impairment. I would now like to give those groups the opportunity to return to their feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u114	I appreciate it when Mr Van Raak shows himself on his sympathetic side. But is he going to table motions for all the draft laws of the last four, eight or twelve years that we have rejected as Chambers to have them filed again, so that we have to vote on them again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u115	Well, yeah! It is when parties, like now, first say that they do not want a new ballot, but a few months later say that there should be a new ballot. In situations like this, I'll do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u116	Thank you, Mr President. We would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that women are structurally disproportionate in all political levels of government;]] [[Whereas it is important that the representation of the people is a good reflection of society;]] [[Whereas a diverse composition of political governance contributes to better decision-making;]] [[points out that it is desirable for a new cabinet to have a balanced male-female relationship,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u117	I have one more motion. It is nice that the Minister is going to look at the accreditation system in terms of speed, but we also want more clarity about accessibility. So my next motion is: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the accreditation system for election observation is opaque;]] [[noting that the accreditation system is more accessible and faster in Germany and Norway than in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas such election observations provide an insight into how to improve the voting process;]] [[invites the Cabinet to examine how to make the accreditation system more accessible to election observers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arissen and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u118	Mr. Chairman. As DENK, it is important for young people to be involved in our democracy, participate in our democracy and participate in our electoral system. That is why I would like to thank the Minister for promising to launch a campaign to recruit more voters among young people. Thank you! The young people have also indicated that they would like to vote in school, in MBO, HBO and WE educational institutions. In response to many written questions, the Minister said a few words about this, but we are going a step further to encourage young people in these educational institutions to vote. I'd like to back that up with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 80% of the first-time voters are still in education;]] [[Considering that, in the last national elections, the youth turnout rate decreased by 4% compared to the national elections in 2012;]] [[noting that the Minister indicated his willingness to consider giving municipalities special consideration to the possibility of setting up polling stations in educational establishments for municipal elections;]] [[calls on the government, in addition to this, to try to reach agreements with municipalities to promote the establishment of polling stations at MBO, HBO and WOC educational institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31142/76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u119	I hope that one day a polling station will be set up for Mr Bosma in a mosque.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u120	Thank you. We await the final motion, which will be copied and distributed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u121	Mr. Chairman. You're always the last person to get the motions in box K, but that's the way things are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u122	Yeah, that's really weird. You're right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u123	I'm trying to limit myself now. Mrs Bruins Slot asked for a letter in the run-up to the municipal elections. I'll give you that letter. I will also discuss the subject of track & trace, which I can already say there is no legal obstacle to doing so by courier. It's purely a matter of numbers and budget. I shall return to that in the letter. Mr Koopmans asked for further attention, including for other concentrations of voters abroad. I think I have already said a few things about this. I refer to that, because otherwise I might just choose different words. That's got the full attention. Mr Van Raak asked about the pathways of the two laws that exist, namely the electorate abroad and the transparency of the electoral process. As previously promised, they will be sent to the Chamber in the first quarter of next year. That is the state of play. Which brings me to the motions. Some of them are political choices and would be my suggestion of keeping them. This applies, for example, to the Özütok and others motion. in piece No. 72 on measures to remove obstacles. This also refers to the discussion we have just had on people with different forms of disability. So it also affects the Kieswet or results from it. I ask Mrs Özütok to hold the motion. If I had to give an opinion now, I would have no choice but to discourage the motion. I like that one, but this is the situation right now. The motion-Van Get into piece No. 73 could also be strictly enforced. But that is clearly not the intention of Mr Van Raak, because he wants to do it during this period. In fact, referring to Mr Bosma's contribution, I can only advise against the motion. Again, we are in complete agreement on the substance. The bill also has my full support and enthusiasm. I just added a pitch for it. Perhaps there will be a majority for this in the short term, but it is inappropriate that I should have it the second time. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u124	The motion was not so much addressed to the Minister but, as always, to the Chamber. It is a request to the Chamber to give an order to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u125	But if you want to know my advice on that request, then I have no choice but to advise against it. Whether you follow that advice is always up to the Chamber. On the Arissen motion in part No. If I ask the Chamber to give its opinion on the composition of a new cabinet, I can give an opinion. I have to advise against making a ruling on that now. As a sitting cabinet member, I have no role in giving advice on this matter. So it's completely up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u126	Then so be it. Then you don't have to discourage the motion, do you, if it's up to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u127	I'm standing here in dubio now, Mr. Chairman, because I see your eyebrows rising. I see your hesitation, but is it up to the sitting cabinet to give a positive opinion on a motion on the composition of a new cabinet? I think that's close enough. So let me give you a blank recommendation. Can I do it like this? I'm not going over it. I'm not going over it in any way. That's really up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u128	Mrs Arissen probably has another question about the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u129	This motion is really meant to be: the Chamber pronounces. So the Minister does not really have to give an opinion on that either, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u130	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u131	Okay. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u132	Then I note that my advice is not appreciated and that is also the easiest. I come to the Arissen/Özütok motion on item No. 75. It is certainly a new policy to change the accreditation system. So I'd like to suggest that we hold that motion. Finally, I come to the Öztürk motion on item No. 76, which I just got. Let's see if there's something in the operative part that really needs a political weighting. I can try to make that effort, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide. It does not seem to me to be a challenging effort. I like the motion, so I admit it. At least I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-5.u133	That concludes this debate. We are not going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday, because we will have Princess's Day, but on Tuesday. I thought that was September 26th. I thank the Minister.
