ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u1	The draft decisions were presented to the Chamber by letter dated 1 July 2016 by the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today for the second time, but certainly not for the last time about legislation on spatial planning in the broad sense of the word. Last year it was about the Environment Act, now it is about the General Management Measures to concreteise that law. There will be additional laws and finally the introduction law and the adoption decision. I would like to begin by saying that the CDA Group has the last word to say about the whole change in the system when it comes to the introduction law, when we look at the whole set of laws and regulations, and we can see that the Netherlands, the government but certainly also society, is ready for the introduction, and that the major changes associated with the new system can be accepted. In preparation for this debate, the speakers of the political groups, as well as in the preparation of the debate on the Environment Act itself, held consultations on their input with a view to achieving a balanced distribution of the points of discussion in this debate. This means that the spokesmen choose certain accents, but are equally interested in and attach importance to the Minister's response to other points. In my contribution, on behalf of the CDA Group, I will focus on the character of the AMvBs in relation to the law, on various aspects of the functions, powers and roles of the municipalities and... the minister expects no different than I accept the Digital System Environment Act. In addition, I have a single point in the category 'other'. First of all, the General Measures of Governance and the Law. I honestly admit that I am looking more critically at the Environment Act now that I have seen the regulation of powers, not in the law itself but in the AMvBs, in full scope. Something similar applies to certain material standards; colleagues will come back to that. The fact that we are now looking at it more critically than a year ago is, among other things, the result of a discussion we held as a Chamber in January with members of the Council of State. In that discussion, the case of the Environment Act emphasized once again that it is important to maintain the basic principles of the Dutch legislation system, even as regards the relationship between legislation in the formal sense and General Administrative Measures. We are dealing here with two issues. The first important question for our group is whether we do not regulate too little in the law itself and too much in the AMvBs. This applies to the material standards, but also to the division of powers. The Government states that the main rule........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... the clarification of this in the AMvBs. Apart from the fact that, in some respects, the law does confer powers on the Empire, provinces and waterboards and does not seem to be entirely consistent, for example, should a key rule not be incorporated into the law itself in matters of national interest, such as nuclear energy, mining, defence and main infrastructure? The Minister explains to us that inclusion in the AMvBs offers more flexibility. She is undoubtedly right about that. But legislation is not just meant to be flexible, but also to provide clarity, continuity and stability. Secondly, my group is concerned about the procedural procedure now under way, with a wide-ranging suspension procedure, which, by means of motions or other statements by this Chamber, can lead to changes in the AMvBs and, if necessary, to changes in the Environment Act itself through the Introduction Act. On the one hand, given the choices made regarding the procedure, we appreciate the scope offered by the Minister. That gives the Chamber a lot of influence on these AMvBs, and that is what is happening, according to the Minister, because many important issues are being dealt with in the AMvBs. But that's actually the world upside down, isn't it? You correct the one error there are a number of issues not regulated in the law but in AMvB's......................................................................................................................................................................................... It's going to be some kind of pseudo-law, turning all sorts of things upside down. The Council of State advises not before but afterwards. This Chamber now has much influence, perhaps more so than in formal legislation, but in the event of subsequent changes, it has much less influence than in legislation. If the omens are not deceived, I see this Chamber today also discussing a number of motions which have the character of hidden amendments. In doing so, we are not only putting the basic principles of the legislative technique at the heart of the law, the impact of the AMvBs on the challenge, but also the principles of our constitutional system. Our group considers that to be unfortunate. We would therefore urge the Minister to make explicit reference to the issue of the relationship between the law and the AMvBs in the request for advice to the Council of State, to take the opinions of the Council of State very seriously and to incorporate them into the final form of the AMvBs and into the Introduction Act. And, of course, in due course, we will be happy to hear the opinion of the Council of State and the government's reaction to it in due course. We would like to hear the Minister's response. I would like to mention one specific point. According to the Environmental Decree, the city council is given advisory rights in the case of requests for a permit derogating from the applicable environmental plan. On our questions, the Minister acknowledges that this provision is actually superfluous, because the city council already has such competence under the Municipal Law. Nevertheless, it is considered appropriate to include a specific scheme. In my group's view, however, this is an unfortunate precedent, with no substantive argument for this superfluous provision. And if the government still wants such a provision, should it not be included in other major decentralisations where the municipality was given new tasks, such as the Wmo and the Youth Act? Why is it here and not there? And if the provision in one law is, and the other is not, or in one situation is, and is not mentioned in the other, what does that say? Is one opinion more important than another? If it's not in the law, does that fire B and W from a task in their traffic with the city council? In short, we consider this to be a superfluous provision, which merely creates confusion and should be deleted. We would like to hear a response from the Minister. In the role of municipalities as currently defined in the AMvBs, I would like to draw attention to a number of issues. An important change is being made in our environmental policy system by moving from a restrictive-imperative system of planning to a more inviting form. As a result, municipalities are given more room for manoeuvre; that is good and we support it. That is also what I said in the process of dealing with the law itself. However, this conclusion raises a number of questions. The question of whether a municipal administration has reasonably been able to reach the chosen balance of interests becomes much more a substantive question in the new system. And that means that any objection procedures become longer and more complex: legalisation. The government does not see that risk, but it is felt, for example, in the courts. Also, municipalities will always have their own rules consistently in all regulations etc. The Commission's proposal for a Council directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers is based on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the And there will be diversity in regulation between municipalities. Once again, my group welcomes this area of policy, but how do we prevent, apart from good prior participation, that the law intended as simplification and clarification would lead to opaque regulation and endless procedures? At the very least, good monitoring of the effects of the law will be very important in the coming years. The province is represented as competent authority in complex, risky environmental activities. However, generally binding rules of the municipality or water authority may also apply. And it is not clear to me at this stage either that in the cases we are discussing, the province will grant all the permits and will be able to enforce them. Shouldn't the province's primacy be further established here, and clearly cover all licensing and enforcement? We'd like to hear a response. When it comes to the workload of municipalities, I read that the Minister expects that there will be no additional work on the municipalities in a structural sense. Whether or not that is the case must teach time. I mentioned the example of citizens who come to confirm that they do not need a permit. That's just extra work. For the introduction and transition there is this extra workload. We're talking about a process of many years. I'm actually wondering if you can still call that "temporary." A municipality may extend ten years to create a current environmental plan; I think it is a long time; five years seems better for me, but all this time it is also necessary to continue working with the old spatial planning instruments. During such a long transition period you can no longer speak of a temporary situation. Then there is just a structural additional workload for municipalities. Then I come to the participation and involvement of citizens. I mean not only those who want to develop or take an initiative, but also those who are confronted with it. Initiators will normally know the way and, if necessary, surround themselves with experts to be supported in the participation and decision-making process. But the question is whether every ordinary citizen can and does that equally well. In dealing with the law itself, I have already pointed out that confidence in participation is also a risk of disappointment. Talk to people who get a windmill close, I'd say. The legislator seems to be based on a mature, competent, rational and understanding citizen, but that is far from always justified. In this respect, we have seen an interesting report by the WRR on the self-reliance of citizens these days. Earlier there was a report from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau on the same theme. Can the citizen handle all this? Does he or she have sufficient knowledge, possibilities and time? The claim of the WRR that, in its view of citizens, the government too often takes a rational rather than a realistic approach, could also apply to this legislation. A key word for participation is the concept of "equivalence." This is the principle that participation must be shaped. Shouldn't that be more firmly enshrined in the rules? Suggestions have been made for this, but they have not been taken over. It seems to us worth reconsidering. I'd like to hear it from the Minister. In addition, we also read the criticism that, according to international agreements, European or otherwise, a more substantive regulation of participation is actually required than is currently the case in the AMvBs. How does the Minister see this? If the citizen is to be able to fulfil his role properly, he must be able to learn about developments in his environment. To this end, the Digital System Environment Act, the DSO, serves. The WRR rightly points out that even in this respect, even if it is useful with ICT, you can expect him to regularly consult his municipality's digital window to know if something is going to happen in his environment. In this respect, do we not rely too much on the digital world and on the citizen who visits the municipality's website every week? I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that. This brings me to my last major theme: ICT infrastructure and the DSO. On behalf of my group, I have discussed this issue in detail with regard to the law itself. I would like to start by repeating what I said on that occasion: without a proven digital infrastructure, there cannot be a green light for its introduction as far as the CDA Group is concerned. I say this so emphatically, because I have not been reassured by the Minister's answers on this point. The budget required for the first phase of the programme, which is to maintain the current level of service provision, is now almost twice as large as initially estimated, i.e. 103 instead of 53 million. This is at the expense of the next phase, in which the so-called information houses would be built. But it is precisely these information houses that, if I understand correctly, should provide the basis for good information for citizens, businesses and administrators. There is even a call for more information houses, for example in the field of energy transition. However, the basis for adequate participation and decision-making is likely to be abandoned. From the Minister's answer, I deduce that more money is needed. How much, exactly? How many of the ten planned information houses can actually be realized with the available budget? In the course of the legal process, the Minister initially seemed to be committed to at least maintaining the current level of service provision. But later she had to acknowledge that at least a lower base level had to be secured. One step back and certainly not one step forward. I have a terrible feeling that with this information we now have to conclude again that we are only taking a step back. After all, there is no money to set up all the information houses. Looks like we're getting half a system. In addition, it is annoying that we only get a better view of the actual situation every time we ask questions. It always makes me feel like there's more bad news. What, according to the Minister, is a realistic assessment of the costs and time involved in realising the level of ambition set out in the DSO? We would like to hear that from the Minister. Then I'm going to name two small things. In article 1.2 of the law landscape is referred to as an aspect of the physical environment. However, in the General Measure of Management and in particular in the Quality of Living Environment Decision, unlike other interests, it is no longer referred to as a matter to be defended by the provinces. This applies in particular to Chapter 7 of the Act of Accession. Can the Minister explain why one interest and the other has not been taken into account in the Finance Act? Finally, we are getting signals that the wording on the conservation requirements of the nature network seems to go further in the Minister's reply than in the text of the Belgian Government itself. Would the Minister care to comment on that? That's it for our first term. We would like to await the government's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing four General Management Measures that are part of the Environmental Act. Partly regulate those issues that, my group believes, belong at law level, such as important substantive standards, normative frameworks for decision-making, discretion, licensing and powers. The Environmental Law aims to bring more clarity, predictability, ease of use and coherence into the laws and regulations. The law should create more administrative discretion and speed up decision-making. The Minister made a number of promises in this new law: an equivalent level of protection of environmental quality and equal legal protection, the promotion of participation, the promotion of sustainable development and an integrated approach and approach. We are happy to keep these promises to the Minister, which have been mentioned as starting points in the law. In our contribution, we will examine the current regulations, inter alia, in the light of the objectives and principles of the law. We have concerns about ensuring an equivalent level of protection. As the RIVM also argues, the term "equivalent level of protection" is not defined and not clearly defined in the law and the rules. The RIVM therefore concludes that the question of whether an equivalent level of protection is actually provided cannot be answered, certainly not in a quantitative sense. We are pleased to receive a response from the Minister to this opinion from the RIVM. RIVM believes that many goals and ambitions, such as sustainable development and health, are not reflected in the AMvBs. They should be made operational, so that it is clear whether and how the ambitions in a decentralised system are being fulfilled. On this point, too, we would like to receive a response from the Minister. In its replies, the Minister states that the degree of protection is partly determined by state rules, but also by the choices made by the local authorities, within the administrative discretion left by the Empire. That space is not unlimited and the Minister trusts that municipalities and provinces handle that space prudently. Yet there is a lot of tension in this assertion. Municipalities have to balance many interests, such as economic interests, the interests of companies and interests such as health, a clean environment and nature protection. We have plenty of examples of situations where this balance of interests has been at the expense of health and the environment, such as in areas with an enormous concentration of intensive livestock farming. That is why clear normative frameworks, within which this discretion lies, are so crucial. In this way, a basic level of protection is always provided for health, the environment and nature. However, the new rules allow for many deviations from standards, depending on the administrative balance. Also, a number of standards and protective measures are no longer reflected in the new regulations, such as the Decision on sensitive destinations and the designation of buildings sensitive to odour. Noise levels no longer need to be tested for maximum noise levels during the day and this is a deterioration for people and children who sleep during the day. When determining the group risk, the focus area taken into account becomes significantly smaller, as it focuses only on protecting the people inside the buildings. In order to give greater consideration to local authorities, there is more flexibility in the rules and in the transmission of standards. Standards can work on decisions at different levels and thus also at the level of protection. It's quite a difference whether you have to "involve" something or "take into account" something or whether you have to "take into account" something. The limit values for odours in livestock farms and treatment plants allow for derogations in the case of "heavy economic and/or social interests." The cabinet writes that the local context and the local social base are also important. So if you're unlucky enough to live in a municipality with a lot of intensive livestock farming, you're screwed in terms of smell. The balance between protecting and exploiting can easily go to economic exploitation interests. For noise, external safety, water quality and air quality, the limit values are "real" limit values, but exceptions are possible. How do you prevent a lot of exceptions due to local administrative considerations? Guarantees in the Crisis and Recovery Act and in the Interim Act urban and environmental approach do not come back when inserting into the Environmental Act. The Minister did not agree with GroenLinks that this would weaken the guarantees, because she felt that the framework in the Bkl draft was strong. These must be important economic or social interests. But the duration of the derogation is no longer limited and depends on the local situation. So the deviation could go on forever if no one calls the bell. Who protects neighbors who suffer? Not everyone is self-reliant and well-spoken. We attach great importance to the maximum duration of the derogations and I would like to hear a response from the Minister. To sum up this block, how will the Minister ensure that there is an equivalent level of protection? Will it use monitoring for this purpose and report regularly? Will it take zero measurements when the law is introduced? Health is one of the main objectives of this regulation. The Health Council was critical on 20 July 2016. Air pollution and noise contribute significantly to the disease burden in the Netherlands, and the Cabinet has also recognised that people are becoming ill with noise and air pollution, even if the current standards are met. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Why is the Minister not prepared to include the stricter standards of the World Health Organisation? At the very least, health targets, environmental values with an effort obligation are necessary for particulate matter, NO and ozone, and it should be established that air quality should not deteriorate further until these targets are met. We know the reasons for the Minister's njet. Over and over again, the cabinet says that it does not want to do more than what Europe needs to do, while research finds that, for example, fine dust standards are inadequate and that standards are lacking for the smallest particles, and that they are the most dangerous ones. Here is the balance between protecting and exploiting already in advance search. How seriously can I take the Minister on her promise to protect health? Even health protection targets are not negotiable! I'd like to hear what the Minister himself thinks about this. The Minister writes that promoting health in one municipality by improving air quality can and in the other municipality by increasing the distance to sound sources or by smart and healthy furnishings of the city. What does she mean by that? Are air quality and sound interchangeable? She can't mean that, can she? Surely, in all cases, there must always be a basic level of protection, both in terms of air quality, noise and other aspects? And isn't it true that a smart and healthy interior of your city is something extra to promote the health of your citizens, but which can never replace that basic level of protection? For example, a smart design that invites walking, cycling and sports cannot replace clean air. It is precisely with regard to health that the accumulation of different environmental taxes is a major problem, as is the threat of standard filling. The IPO is also concerned about this. How does the Minister prevent standardisation and accumulation lead to a serious burden on health and the environment? The Minister writes that municipalities can opt for stricter air quality standards or stricter noise standards. Moreover, the Minister himself is putting on the brakes again, because these stricter standards should not restrict the national roads.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Norm padding is not necessary, but can be, depending on the choice made by the local government. But how does the Minister prevent norm filling from becoming the normal course of action? There is also little regulation on cumulation. Local authorities have a lot of discretion. The Bkl draft states that the municipal board "takes account of it if there is, in its opinion, a relevant accumulation of smell or sound" but the cabinet itself states that this is a political opinion of the municipal board, whereby the board can take the advice of, for example, the GGD. The scope for consideration is therefore very broad and political. What guarantee of a balance between protecting and exploiting is here? I'd like a response. Is the Minister prepared to include an instruction in the Bkl to prevent and address cumulation? In the note to the Bkl it will be added that a higher load on one aspect can be weighed against a lower load on another aspect, or against, for example, spatial quality. Also the question: is there or is there not a basic level of protection that you should never fall under? In the Bkl we find no rules aimed at sustainable development, such as anchoring the energy transition. The cabinet replies that the AMvBs give room for this, but it is obviously about the actions, and that is why this should be made much more binding and should not depend on the goodwill of the various governments. An environmental value for CO would contribute to this, but for the time being the cabinet wants the Dutch Parliamentary Motion-Van Tongeren c.s. do not execute. There is, as the cabinet says, the energy agreement, there will be an Energy Agenda, and we will look into its development to see if, for example, that environmental value is needed. If we want to get to Paris, we need much more after the energy agreement and there is no time to lose. In addition to an environmental value for CO, instructional rules can be included in the Bkl which instruct provinces, municipalities and water boards to include energy targets in their environmental visions, environmental plan or regulation. Why doesn't the Minister fill in the energy transition in the BKL? I'd like a response. We're considering a motion. Similarly, the draft decisions do not require municipalities to include the issue of energy supply in their environmental plan, while clarity about the design of energy supply is of great importance for investors and companies, as well as for the effective realisation of the energy transition. Without clarity, it becomes more expensive and uncertain whether goals are being achieved. For example, a decision by the competent authority on the phasing-out of natural gas and its energy infrastructure is crucial for effective cooperation and the affordability of the energy system. I'd like a response from the Minister. A few more questions about nature and landscape. The Cabinet considers it sufficient that the provinces can draw up rules aimed at guaranteeing the quality of the landscape, but I would once again ask the Minister if the Cabinet is prepared to arrange for the provinces to make instructions for the protection of the landscape in the environmental regulation. The Empire is responsible for achieving the Natura 2000 targets, but these targets are still very far out of sight. According to the Planning Bureau for the Environment, the Netherlands never achieves more than 65% in 2027 with its current policy. The cabinet leaves the initiative to the provinces to actually achieve the goals. Why does the Minister not take control of the system of responsibility and the obligation to which the Empire is addressed by Europe? How does the government see the realisation of these goals without a strong direction and investment by the Empire? I'd like a response. How does the cabinet see the responsibility of Rijk and provinces for the realization of the Dutch Nature Network? In the reply, the Minister writes that the provinces determine both the level of protection and the way in which it is done. What options does the Minister have when objectives are not achieved? In Section 4.4 of the Bkl it seems as if the Nature Protection Act will not take place one-on-one in the Environment Act and the implementing regulations. I'd like a response. The General Court concludes that nature compensation is not working properly. Is this reason to include additional measures in the Environment Act and the implementing decisions? A number of questions on the protection of public drinking water supplies, because we are not satisfied with the Minister's answers on this point. Mining activities remain possible in and under areas designated by the provinces for drinking water supply, for example by drilling from the outside under such an area. Is the Minister prepared to completely exclude mining activities in these areas? Is it prepared to regulate which surface waters have a drinking water function and to establish protection zones for surface water? Is it prepared to include area files containing risks and measures to protect drinking water production? Is it prepared to include the main infrastructure for the transport of raw water and semi-finished products? Is it prepared to regulate a binding advisory right for Rijkswaterstaat in the event of indirect discharges? The Minister makes use of the extensive preparatory procedure. Municipalities should use the regular eight-week preparation procedure. The VNG considers this an undesirable restriction to achieve important objectives of the Environmental Act. The Minister insists on this and says that it certainly saves time in all cases where no one objects or goes to court, but that is no reason not to allow municipalities to choose which preparation procedure is most appropriate. Is the Minister still willing to give that space to the municipalities? Nor does the Minister consider it necessary to ensure effective participation. It is only stipulated that there should be participation, but how, that remains unclear. Participation must be of sufficient quality in terms of content and procedure, otherwise it will become a wash nose. If there is something that leads to frustration, it is organising participation that is nothing. It is also very difficult for project and activity promoters to know what the path of participation should look like. Nature and environmental organisations therefore advocate the establishment of framework conditions for participation, both in terms of content and procedure. According to the National Platform Citizen Participation Environment Projects, the current Environmental and Implementing Laws are in conflict with the Aarhus Convention and EU Directives, as substantive quality requirements for participation are mandatory. I'd like a response from the Minister. I would also like to ask for extra attention for people who are low-literate or less self-reliant. Will notification of a planned project or activity and information on it also be accessible to them? The Minister is very reluctant with cooperation programmes between the Empire and other governments, such as now the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme. In some cases, when environmental values are exceeded in a municipality, the Minister sees reason to join a municipality in a joint programme, for example in the case of ozone and PM, because it sees a shared programme obligation. Then the real question is why it does not see it when it exceeds PM values and NO. And what if a national road or main rail link is part of the cause? I'd also like a comment on this. We are concerned about whether investing in knowledge and skills in all governments and enforcement agencies, which is, of course, crucial for the success of this massive reform of the system, is adequately supported throughout this operation, including in the financial sense. We would like to hear from the Minister whether the funding is sufficient and whether the progress is sufficient to be ready in time for the actual introduction by 2019. The Minister states that RIVM and GGD are working on integrated indicators, such as an environmental health indicator. What progress has been made and is funding sufficient? We have asked many questions about monitoring. In the Bkl is the task of monitoring and data collection. Management shall be governed by ministerial arrangements. The funding will be supported by many parties with the task of monitoring, namely the Empire, the provinces, the municipalities, the waterboards and the business community. But how does the Minister guarantee that all this will work out, that there will be sufficient funding and that good quality monitoring will be on essential elements? We still have concerns about the way in which the obligation to monitor is regulated. In order to determine whether policies and measures have sufficient impact, it is necessary to monitor environmental values, activities and the quality of the environment and to make zero measurements at the outset. Structural monitoring is crucial in order to be able to intervene in a timely manner. What guarantees will the Minister provide for this? In part, the Minister leaves the monitoring to the project promoters. Who checks whether they do their job properly and do sufficient quality monitoring? Finally, I would like the Minister to confirm that the AMMs will be brought into line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and that the existing accessibility requirements will be inserted into it. My group has asked many critical questions about the current AMvBs. We do not consider it sufficient to ensure the protection of health and the quality of the environment and nature, and to achieve sustainable development, such as the energy transition, in these AMvBs. We are curious about the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. We also thank the Minister for the detailed answers to the questions raised in the written procedure. Nevertheless, we have raised a number of important questions regarding the feasibility and enforcement of the present legislation. After all, we are talking about a huge package of AMvBs, 2,400 pages, which are the very substance of the framework law, the Environment Act, which we adopted last year. In view of the size and pace of the Labour Party, the Group of the Party of European Socialists sees a highly demanding programme with high ambitions, partly because the aim of its introduction is to decentralisation of environmental values and coordination in the regional context of major environmental issues, linked to a complex ICT project. I will concentrate my contribution on six points. Increasing the policy and balancing area at the decentralised level should lead to compliance with European directives and obligations. But more importantly, we can put with the objective of the Environment Act in mind, a better living and working environment in the municipality or province. Where the minister focuses on "regular" implementation, it becomes the challenge for local authorities to deliver tailor-made and territorial differentiation, and customization usually means "more work" in terms of both cost and administrative energy and cooperation. This also raises questions regarding the legal protection of citizens and businesses. In this context, I would like to touch on the first point, which has also been addressed by other colleagues: does not the standards actually form part of the organic legislation of the Environment Act? This discussion is not new; we also had it with each other in 2016. It refers to the principle of law of the publicity of the law. In preparing this contribution, I noticed that for some decades now the First Chamber has been discussing with the government changes in delegated regulations that are not reflected in the law itself. The Council of State has also stressed this in other laws and on previous occasions. With the special construction of the Environment Act we see that this is now completely tilted. The Environment Act itself does not contain any substantive standards. He's a framework or trial law. It therefore raises the crucial question of whether it fits in with our administrative law to establish a framework law system as comprehensive as it is, while the substantive standard is incorporated into a bundle of AMvBs. The argument put forward by the government for this is that there is a great need for flexibility - "feasibility" - the Council of State calls it "feasibility" - also in view of the implementation of European legislation, which would be affected by legal adaptation periods. In addition, there is the goal of overview and coherence of the comprehensive regulation in the field of the physical environment in one place. That place would then be the bundle of AMvBs. However, in view of the process of the creation of the new law, the States-General first established the frameworks, the Environment Act, and we are now, actually one and a half years after that, discussing the material standard by reducing the 120 previously existing AMvBs to the four new bundles. The cardinal question at the moment is whether this is an inevitable and also desirable result, and whether the Council of State at this stage, while it may still be available at this time, would like to give a final assessment of the present result about 90% of the work available. Previously, the Council of State did indeed advise the government and the States General on this. In June 2014, he stated: "(...) for this reason, essential standards and a careful limitation of the regulatory power delegated to the administration should be laid down in the law in a formal sense. Environmental law contains important binding rules that intervene in the daily lives of citizens and the activities of businesses." That was June 2014. It is precisely now that the bundles of AMvBs are in place that a more complete picture can be obtained of the relationship between framework legislation and delegated regulation. The starting point in administrative law is that citizens are supposed to know the law, but there is no need to fully control the delegated regulation in order to understand the impact in practice. Delegated regulation should also not deviate from what is laid down in the law, except for emergencies; otherwise there will be a conflict with Article 81 of the Constitution. On this point, the Government argues that the pending procedure is a necessary and sufficient alternative to a complete legislative review procedure. The colleague of the CDA, Mr Flierman, already commented on it. The distinction between delegated legislation and conditional delegation with regard to the powers of the Chambers for the States-General still stands. The PvdA Group would like to ask the government, now that there is almost a view of the complete package, namely the Environment Act, four AMvBs and the Implementation Act, on which the Advisory Department of the Council of State will give its opinion by mid-year, to ask the Council of State, through its mediation, to give specific advice on this point regarding the desirability of anchoring the essential standards in the Environment Act. Should the Council of State give a positive response to this, we would also like to hear from the Council of State how this can best be achieved. Our question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to do so. How does she feel about asking for advice or information on this issue? How does the Minister himself see the relationship with the Council of State's mandatory substantive advice on the present draft decisions? We are pleased to receive an answer from the Minister. Another issue that concerns us is the DSO, the digital information provision. In the PvdA Group, there is broad feeling that the DSO should be in order before the law can enter into force. The answer shows that the Minister is planning a deficit on the initial investment and that part of this deficit will be transferred to a subsequent cabinet. For us, that gives rise to a few questions. Is this digital route accessible to citizens in a timely manner, in such a way as to provide accurate and up-to-date information on which the competent authority can base its decisions? Have governments covered the investments in the digital system in their budgets for 2018 and 2019? After all, the government's position is that we still have a working system in 2019. Does the Minister have sufficient and up-to-date information at her disposal? It is obvious to assume that the other governments will also have more costs. A "go/no go" moment has been established in the framework of agreements with the 2015 umbrella organisations. At what point will the Minister inform the Chamber about this? Is it reasonable for the States General to be involved in the assessment of this "go/no go" decision? I'd like an answer to that. With regard to participation and information, the essential tilting in the law is that the classical vertical control is exchanged by the Empire for the principle of mutual consultation and the principle of trust between levels of government. Under this legislation, therefore, many administrative agreements are concluded between the levels of government. Citizens are usually not a party to this. The question arises as to the position of the citizen vis-à-vis these mutual administrative arrangements and what this means for transparency of information, decision-making and legal status. The law does, however, have an important participation obligation towards citizens. Because it is linked to large-scale digitisation, it becomes a vulnerable part of the system. Our questions relate in particular to how citizens could test public information. We discussed this earlier this year in this Chamber, in the debate on environmental impact assessment obligations. At that time, the Minister said that it was very important that there should be good professional information and testing facilities in order to properly organise citizens' anti-information powers. At my question to see if there is another hole, a vacuum, she said to do so and that we should discuss it in more detail. I said at that time that we would be very grateful if we could draw conclusions in a further debate that would allow citizens to use a neutral facility to test public sector information. We therefore call on the Government to inform us to what extent it can undertake to provide an independent facility so that, at the request of stakeholders, the public support for plans and project decisions provided by governments can be assessed as early as possible for accessibility, which is an important condition of performance and quality. If this does not happen, there is a very high risk that research costs and contradictory information will lead to a multitude of legal procedures, which are likely to cost more in terms of energy and money than meeting citizens' needs and providing such a neutral facility. How can this suggestion be included in the introduction law or decision? We, too, have seen the appeal of various bodies in favour of a comprehensive procedure as a starting point for the procedure at issue in the competent authority. This is particularly important in the case of complex projects. We also share the view that participation in the preparatory procedure should already be an important part of gaining support and that views at that stage can help to promote agreement on the application and authorisation. The regular procedure now imposed by the Minister does not, in our view, provide enough scope for this. The competent authority is and will remain responsible for both a careful procedure and a careful decision. I'd like a response in that context. Then there are the national responsibilities. My group questions the legal anchoring of national responsibilities in the Environment Act. The Empire seems to withdraw from responsibilities linked to the national scale at European level, such as air quality. We see in the written response a lot of text on the obligations of local authorities, but little effect on the role of the Empire. This plays on several subjects: not only in terms of air quality, but also in terms of nature, water quality and landscape. For example, the Minister indicated that there would be administrative arrangements for a programme in the event of a threat to exceed fine dust and NO. We understand this, but we do not think it is the responsibility of the state and the fact that air pollution is primarily a cross-border phenomenon where the opportunities for local authorities to influence local air quality from a source-oriented strategy are very limited. There is a need for coherence between state measures, provincial measures and municipal measures in order to achieve an effective and successful approach. I therefore call for the joint programme obligation to be imposed on the Empire in the event of a threat of overrun. Is the Minister prepared to take on this initial role, given the European commitments in this area? We have spoken before about the participatory citizen. However, there is also the citizen who relies on good governance and expects the standards to be clear. In its 2016 Annual Report, the Council of State also made an interesting statement on this issue, namely that legal certainty requires that it is clear what the norm is intended to do and how it is applied and enforced in a specific case. According to research, a majority of citizens are not willing or able to participate in participatory processes, but would like to be taken care of by the government and can rely on good governance through a clear standard setting with a well-motivated balancing framework. With regard to enforcement, the PvdA continues to have concerns in this regard. The Minister replied: "If the rule is focused on the local situation by the ruler and is therefore concrete and clear, it does not matter to the enforcement effort in itself that the rule on the same subject may be different at another location. All that matters is whether the rule is sufficiently known to the person carrying out the activity and to the enforcement body. The Digital System Environment Act provides for this." However, that rule must be specific, concrete and clear. The study presented to us last week by the Ministry of the Interior shows that municipalities should set much stricter and more measurable targets in terms of supervision and enforcement. These are the main recommendations of the Monitoring and Enforcement report by municipalities of Pro Facto. According to the author, worrying and striking is that budgets for supervision and enforcement are not known. Municipalities don't think specifying the costs is important enough. Quote: "Until the contribution to the environmental service is explicitly published. They sometimes think that is too much." Moreover, it is not clear to my group at the moment what is and is not to be found in the DSO at the time of its entry into force. How can the enforcement authorities in the DSO see which activities are carried out on a site and what rules apply to them? With regard to the questions of standards and enforcement, which need to be sufficiently included in the DSO, the PvdA Group would consider it desirable to have a reflection from the Council of State. Is the Minister prepared to ask for specific advice from the Council of State on this point and to ask whether it considers that the test on clear standards has been carried out to a sufficient extent upon entry into force of the law and AMvB? Are we ready, that is, of course, a broad living question. Research shows that there are still many questions about the application of the current laws and regulations and about expertise among municipal officials in particular. Now that environmental services have been established a few years ago, bringing together the capacities of the Empire, the Province and the municipalities, we should be able to expect that they can be provided for. The Minister replied to questions that an evaluation of these environmental services would be carried out before the entry into force of the law. The PvdA Group would like to hear when it expects this research and evaluation to be available and whether we can still discuss it with the Minister. Finally, I need something spontaneous from the heart. We received a petition from disabled organisations right before the plenary session, who are concerned about the accessibility of buildings as provided for by the Environmental and AMvBs. In the discussion with this action group we understood that they were not informed of the fact that in December the House of Representatives asked questions to the government and the government reassured it that it will re-enter the traditional accessibility requirements when they come back to the Council of State procedure. In this debate, it would be desirable if the Minister could confirm that point in the direction of the audience.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Verheijen. I've given you room to speak for three and a half minutes more. I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. The new environmental law system is being pursued diligently. If we had a debate on the basis of the Environment Act, we will have to see today as the debate on the masonry of the ground floor. There's still a lot of things to do: supplemental laws and half of the dozens of AMvBs that need to be integrated into the four AMvBs we're discussing today. In particular, let us not forget the closure, the roof that should form the introduction law above this house. In addition, the four AMvBs we are discussing here today are very important. They determine much of the view and decoration of the house of environmental law. But let me start with the most difficult question that my group has in this procedure: is there going to be a moment when we can see the whole thing, when we are sure that this is a sensible plan? And is that a time when this renovation can be stopped or fundamentally different? Or is the choice of the new house of environmental law already inevitable? Can this Chamber, in this way, fully fulfil its role as co-legislator in such an extensive operation? Or is that also to be assessed only if we stop at the introduction law? I'd like to have a reflection from the Minister on this point. In dealing with the Environment Act, I congratulated the Minister, who must be repeated at least as strongly today. The Minister and all those who support her, the authorities involved and many interest groups have done a great deal of work. This leads to comprehensive AMvBs, which, despite their enormous size, offer more simplicity than what has been contained in the dozens of laws and many AMvBs so far. Here lies a solid or, rather, impressive piece of work. The objectives are appealing and the Christian Union Group has also agreed to the Environment Act. At the same time, we were already critical of the reasoning line of a bare procedural framework law and the setting of all material standards in the AMvBs. The guiding standards do not belong in an AMvB but in a law. The Chamber is a co-legislator and, in order to fulfil that role, the substantive discussion must be able to take place at the heart of the matter. In particular, I mentioned water safety as a point where European directives also do not set a standard. Because the minister left the door ajar at the time, we let ourselves be persuaded. Literally, the Minister said: "If you still feel after the AMvBs that it is not properly arranged, there is always a possibility to give certain matters a place in the law under the introduction law." But now this cabinet continues and over time the Minister seems to have less and less understanding of the idea that principles should be enshrined in the law. Speed and clarity in particular are the arguments for all material standards in an AMvB. In the last answer to our questions, it is mainly argued that it is undesirable to spread water or air standards across different levels. That is confusing for the citizen, the Minister said. The Minister closed the door, but I had the hope that if many discussions were crystallized, they would still lay down the basic level of protection of water safety at least, but possibly also of air and noise in the law. Of course, it is important to find good underlying principles, as was recently done in the Water Act by taking the basic level of protection as a starting point in terms of water safety. The risk of death for an individual as a result of a flood should not exceed 1 in 100 000 per year, with additional protection in areas that are very busy or where there is vital infrastructure. Not the standards for the dike paths are now in the law, but the underlying starting point. The Council of State also previously recommended that the underlying standards be defined and inserted into the law. I am very curious to see how now the AMMs are being weighed by the Council of State in this respect. In particular, I would like to ask the Minister to make an effort to achieve these underlying standards at law level and at least to ask the Council of State's opinion specifically on this at the introduction law, because the arguments are not convincing my group. The legitimacy of a law and the responsibility of the Chamber as co-legislator are thus weighed too lightly. The thesis to regulate everything as clearly as possible at one level raises the question as to why the cabinet does not place all substantive regulations, all material standards in AMvBs from now on. Now, pragmatically, it could be argued that the veil already makes a pseudo-law of these AMvBs, but let us take into account that examination by the Council of State showed that the veil of AMvBs in the Chamber rarely leads to adaptation or debate. Moreover, the Court now lacks the opinion of the Council of State in the assessment of the present AMvBs. The Chamber should not count itself rich in this respect. I would like to invite the Minister to open the door again and at least to specifically involve this issue in the sending of the introduction law to the Council of State's advice. These proposals also delete many of the rules. There is rightly confidence in the local authorities and the rules of general administrative law are also a good guide. The Group of the Christian Union shares the confidence, but wonders whether the removal of rules at the state level also means that there are ultimately fewer rules for the citizen or entrepreneur. Actal points out that the impact on the size of decentralised regulation has not yet been identified. How does the Minister prevent her from seeing what she was cutting on the one hand, shooting again on the other? It seems to me that in any case it is important that existing and useful powers of the local authorities should be re-established there. Otherwise the same result will be sought by means of detours and agreements. I am thinking, for example, of the regular advisory right granted to water boards in the case of indirect discharges rather than an opinion with agreement and the advisory right already in force, which is binding in some cases. The Minister considers binding advisory law to be the exception and does not want to raise it to a standard, but I do lack a weighting of the financial risks to the waterboards or at least the possibility of monitoring indirect discharges. That's possible under the current Wabo. I hope that the Minister will look at the introduction law to see whether this is not better to resolve. I'm getting to the water test. The Minister and my group do not differ on the importance of this. At a time when, as a result of climate change, we will have to do more and more work on a water-robust design of our country, an instrument that guarantees this importance in all phases of spatial planning processes is of great value. With the water test we have that instrument in environmental law. In the Bkl, the Quality of Living Environment Decision, the weighting of the water interest is secured by an instructional rule which implies that the impact on the management of water systems should be taken into account in municipal environmental plans, provincial environmental regulations and project plans. That is a good thing. However, the spatial figure that is missing in this list is the environmental vision. Many groups in this House have argued in the various written rounds that this instruction rule should be extended to the environment view. The Minister does not feel that much about this, as it became clear from her response. The environmental vision is only a policy document and, moreover, there is no hook in the law for an instructional rule in the Bkl for the environmental vision, according to the Minister. And then there is Article 2.2 of the Environment Act, which lays down that one administrative body must take into account the functions and powers of the other administrative body in the exercise of its powers. In other words, the Minister seems to think it is logical that no rule of instruction for environmental views has been drawn up to guarantee the water interest. My group does not look at that in the same way. The Minister overlooks the fact that, on a proposal from the ChristianUnion Group in the House of Representatives, environmental visions have become mandatory. Moreover, the 2011 Water Management Agreement has agreed that the water test will also apply to structural visions. It is precisely in an environment vision that the strategic foundation for all concrete spatial plans... is of great importance, also in view of the challenges for which climate change poses us, that the involvement of waterboards in the design of environmental visions is well secured. That is why I ask the Minister if she still wants to make an instructional rule possible in the law and add it to the Bkl in order to ensure early involvement of the water manager in environmental visions. As far as relations between the authorities are concerned, the speakers have already said more to me. I wholeheartedly agree with that. In the written preparation, the Christian Union has had a lot of exchanges with the Minister about the disappearance of planning reduction powers by the provinces. I thank the Minister for her constructive response and the consultation with IPO and VNG. I note that there is still a difference of opinion as to whether the same result can be achieved with the current rules in order, for example, to reduce the number of square metres of vacant offices. Is the Minister prepared to include this aspect explicitly in the next evaluation? Then it would be easy to determine who is right on his side. The success of the introduction of these AMvBs and the Environment Act stands or falls with the ease with which the target groups can work with this. The target group approach of the AMvBs is a good guiding idea, but in this search engine age it is important that the digital system is in order. I have concerns about this, including the budgetary resources, or the lack of them, in order to get the system in order. I wholeheartedly endorse Mr Flierman's comments on this matter. I do not know of any examples of such an extensive legislative operation as that of environmental law. It's handsome and comprehensive work that's being done. This Minister has done an admirable amount of work in this area. But during such a heavy and complicated construction project it is important to keep the drawings in order. I recently read in the book The Law as an artwork by former senator Willem Witteveen. It is for everyone with a heart for legislation to be recommended. It is a plea to continue to realise that a law is so much more than a policy instrument, not to subordinate content to the process, not to subordinate quality to quantity. I wish the Minister that firm conviction in pursuing the route to a new system of environmental law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. This debate concerns the decisions taken under the Environment Act. A framework law that hardly sets frameworks, but forms a casco in which you can build what you want, without being put in the way of a strobe. A law that is not intended to better protect the environment, but only simplifies and merges the rules for spatial development. That does not sound very optimistic, and it is not in the eyes of many people who want to offer the environment not only legal protection, but also, above all, real protection. With the AMvBs, the law gets more shape, and so our concerns grow. The great concern of my group is whether everything that is of value and defenceless is still protected by these draft decisions. In other words, whether they serve the social purpose of achieving and maintaining a safe and healthy physical environment and good environmental quality. Because the other goal, the efficient management, use and development of the physical environment to meet social needs, seems to be a gap between exploitation and protection, where it is very doubtful whether the tendency to maximise the use of the living environment will not overshadow the so-called softer values such as health, soil fertility and nature. The cabinet is based on a "equal level of protection" in relation to the current rules. But what exactly is meant by that is not defined and whether it is actually achieved is very much the question. Environmental, nature and health organisations and RIVM indicate that equal protection is not guaranteed at all and depends on how municipalities and provinces will fulfil their responsibilities. In 2019, when the Environmental Act enters into force, not the same amount, but much more is needed than the current protection. To tackle climate change hard. To make sure we don't have any less nature left. After all, the Netherlands Nature Network has long since ceased to have the size of the original main ecological structure and we need to strengthen and connect biodiversity with this new legislation. In order to prevent the number of animals slaughtered annually in the Netherlands, by now over 600 million, from increasing even further, with all animal suffering, manure surpluses, greenhouse gases and health risks. And finally to safeguard people's health. This requires stricter standards than the current ones, also according to the Health Council. I like to remind you that a healthy environment is a fundamental right. Article 21 of the Constitution states: "The concern of the public authorities is aimed at the habitability of the country and the protection and improvement of the environment." It does not say: the government is doing its best to maintain the quality of the environment, if it is not too much against economic interests or if Europe is allowed to do so. No, it's a national constitutional responsibility. Then, of course, it is sad to see that hundreds of questions have to be asked about whether a level of protection is maintained at the same level as the present one, and that there has not been a conclusive answer. More is needed for a future-proof environmental system. I realise that an integral assessment is not possible at this stage, but the first outlines give great cause for concern as far as my group is concerned. Climate policy is not anchored in these designs. Two years after Paris, you would expect climate targets to be firmly anchored in a future-proof environmental system, especially one that will only enter into force in 2019, so that the energy transition does not become unnecessarily delayed. But nothing could be further from the truth. The Minister stated in the further reply that "when developing the transition paths of the Energy Agenda, it will be necessary to consider whether the AMvBs should be adapted." So now no national rules for energy saving, renewable energy and CO targets of the transition, no decentralised translation of those targets, and no guarantee of regional and local implementation. Locally, in particular, sustainable heat supply is a huge challenge. The heat infrastructure must be included in the environmental plan to secure it properly. Climate objectives should not only be anchored regionally and locally, but also civil servants should have much more knowledge of the energy transition. From the Minister's answers to questions about anchoring climate policy in the implementing rules, there is no urgency, while we cannot afford to postpone measures. I'd like to get a reaction to that. Air quality is particularly cross-border. In any case, therefore, an environmental value at a rich level must be included. In this respect, I wholeheartedly endorse the previous pleas. It is also important to adhere to WTO standards. Colleagues have already said that. The WHO has not for nothing drawn up guidelines for particulate matter, NO and ozone. These should be the basis of the Quality of Living Environment Decision. The Party for Animals finds it unheard of that the cabinet deliberately does not put health at the centre, while a healthy environment is a central starting point of the Environment Act. There are also too few guarantees in the AMvBs that protect our drinking water. Mr Bikker already referred to it. Last week I went to work at the drinking water company Dunea. The company, like other drinking water companies, is deeply concerned about the consequences of the Environmental Act. It had to come to trial a year and a half ago, because too much pyrazole had been discharged into the Meuse and the province of Limburg and the Empire did not intervene. The supply of drinking water to Hagenaars, Hagenezen and their surroundings was at stake. Already, drinking water companies already have dozens of intake stops per year due to discharges. Release is still prohibited, unless, for example, a company has a permit. In the Environmental Act it is reversed to: discharge is permitted, unless an activity is subject to authorisation or is subject to general rules. That's the upside-down world. I therefore wholeheartedly support Mr Bikker's call for additional safeguards to be included in the implementing rules. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Even a minimal level of basic protection is not enshrined in these draft decisions. For example, the RIVM's environmental impact assessment shows that there can be no guarantee of equivalence in advance, since municipalities may deviate from the standards of clearance for noise, vibration and odour in the Bkl, even below the basic level of protection. The current emission standards for noise, vibration and odour in the Activity Decision do not include this discretion. How can an equivalent level of protection be guaranteed? In the further written reply, the Cabinet states that this is in line with the principle of an equivalent level of protection, as this type of derogation also exists under the Interim City and Environment Act and the Crisis and Recovery Act. However, not all existing safeguards, such as monitoring, have been incorporated into these laws. Also for temporary buildings and locations, which can be allowed for up to 10 years, the rules for sound, vibration and smell are not applicable. This means that emergency rooms of schools can be built at a location where children are constantly dealing with noise or odour nuisance. This is irresponsible. Why do temporary locations not enjoy the same protection as permanent locations? During the consultation a lot of attention has already been paid to this and during the veil in the Lower House a number of motions have been adopted. Is the exception for temporary locations and buildings under the rules for noise and odour-sensitive locations and buildings adapted on this basis? It is worrying how the compensation of nature is arranged. The Netherlands Nature Network needs to be repaired in a good way in the event of the attack. In the past, the compensation obligation has not been met at all. Although the Animal Party welcomes the Minister's intention to amend the rules of instruction in order to comply with the recommendations of the General Court of Auditors on improving the protection of compensation nature and on the motion of Member Van Veldhoven on high-quality compensation, the Cabinet wishes at the same time to respond to the IPO's wish to make the rules of instruction less detailed. The Minister stated in the detailed report on the timeliness of compensation measures: "Temporary means that the compensatory measures must be implemented with adverse consequences at least before the start of the activity in question. By its nature it may then take some time before the compensatory nature values are again equally present." In other words, an activity harmful to nature may begin once the compensatory measures have been implemented, and there is no need to wait until the values of nature are present. How can the Minister guarantee that natural values will be equally present again? This could take years. In response to a follow-up question, the Minister says: "The absolute lower limit according to the new rules of instruction is that the quality and surface area of the nature network should not deteriorate and that the coherence between the areas of the network should be ensured. This is a matter of performance obligations." That sounds positive, but here too we have some questions. When should it be clear that coherence, surface and quality of the network will be ensured when the harmful activity begins? How can you be sure of that if the natural values are not yet up to date? It is good that attention is paid to the importance of improving nature values and that it is clarified that these are results obligations. But is it true that there is a good chance that there will soon be twelve different protection regimes and also twelve different regimes for adjusting the boundaries of the Dutch Nature Network? Neither effective nor effective. Our final concern on this issue is the deterioration of the legal protection of citizens. The Empire will find fewer cases nationwide and municipalities will be given much more local consideration and assessment space. The result is that a judicial review will also be difficult. The court can then no longer determine whether or not the national rules are being exceeded, but only whether the municipality has remained within its jurisdiction and the procedure has gone well. Additional danger is that endless procedures are needed to clarify what the standard should be. In what way will the Minister prevent judicialisation and better anchor legal protection? My colleague from the SP Group has discussed several times during the preparation the limitation of the application of the extended public preparation procedure. I suspect she will go into that further, and I would like to join her. As far as we can judge now, protection of the living environment with these AMvBs is not dressed in, but undressed. Although there is room for improvement in the draft decisions, this is far from guaranteed. To this end, it is necessary that implementing acts provide at least an equivalent level of protection. In addition, where improvement is urgent and/or necessary, we consider it necessary for the law and the implementing rules to provide for it. A legislative proposal which, because of insufficient guarantees, has the potential to achieve not an optimal living environment but maximum economic exploitation, at the expense of further impoverishment of the living environment and in favour of as many new roads and railways as possible, of industrial sites, of mega-stables and waste incinerators, does not benefit humans, animals, nature and the environment. I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. More than a year ago we talked about the Environment Act and this Chamber had the idea that this law would be a useful addition. Today we are looking at the General Management Measures that give substance to the law. So we are a step further on the road to merging the laws and AMvBs that come together in the Environment Act. We have taken a good time for today's debate. We did written rounds, we spoke to experts and the Ministry: it was not the preparation. Hail to those who contributed to this. There were concerns, too, and some of them I'd like to walk by. The concerns of the SP Group are mainly about the procedures, the quality of the environment and participation. Last year it was discussed in detail whether this law really benefits users. We are talking about both the local authorities and the people. Over the past few weeks I have been asking around municipalities and provinces: how is the Environment Act experienced there? The answers differ. A number of municipalities manage to do it, but there are also those who believe that the knowledge is still far from there. Looking at the past, you can see that a system change takes a lot of time and effort. The introduction of the Wabo also required an update of the zoning plans and it sometimes proved too much. This can also apply to a number of municipalities and provinces. My question to the Minister is: is he prepared to explain to the local authorities how far they are going, and to identify what assistance needs to be provided in order to be ready to start in time? In addition, the question arises as to whether people, for example residents and other stakeholders, have sufficient guidance to the AMvBs. What is their legal protection according to the Minister? Has it evaporated and has participation replaced this? Can residents and stakeholders not only influence decision-making at the right time, but also really achieve their rights? I would like to go into this in more depth with the Minister. There are good reasons to doubt whether the subject of citizen participation in the Environment Act and the Environment Decision has been brought into line with international obligations of the Netherlands. At the heart of the matter is one issue: both the Aarhus Convention and three EU directives impose substantive requirements on the quality of citizen participation in environmental matters, while both the Environment Act and the Environment Decision limit themselves to a procedural requirement and do not impose any requirement on the quality of that citizen participation. This gap is not filled by the General Administrative Law Act: the submission of an opinion under the "expanded procedure" means ex post review rather than consideration before a decision is taken. The quality requirements of the Aarhus Convention and the EU Directives ensure that there are reasonable deadlines and therefore there is sufficient time to inform and enable citizens to participate. Citizen participation should take place at a time when all options are still open and participation is effective. Applicants for a decision should be encouraged to inform and engage with citizens. Competent public authorities should give citizens access to all relevant information as soon as possible. Citizens should be given the opportunity to bring forward all the information they consider relevant. The competent authority must ensure that the outcome of citizen participation is duly taken into account in the final decision. These are requirements that the Netherlands must meet when setting up citizen participation. Both the Aarhus Convention and the EU Directives sometimes elaborate these requirements in great detail. The Netherlands is obliged to ensure that these requirements are met and that they are implemented. However, as regards civic participation, the Environment Act does not go beyond the following provision: "At the start of the reconnaissance, the competent authority will be informed of how citizens, businesses, civil society organisations and administrative bodies will be involved." For example, this could be an announcement for an information evening. The Environment Decision contains this provision: "In the notification of how citizens, businesses, civil society organisations and administrative bodies will be involved, the competent authority shall, in any event, include: who will be involved, who will be involved, when will they be involved, what is the role of the competent authority and the initiator in the involvement of these parties and where is additional information available." These are purely procedural provisions, whereas the Aarhus Convention and the EU Directives contain substantive quality requirements. What I have just described applies to the project procedure leading to a project decision. These are decisions on large-scale projects for which the Empire, the provinces and the waterboards are competent, and not the municipalities. The notification obligation therefore does not apply to decisions for which a municipality is competent, such as planning plans and environmental permits. Under the Environmental Law and the Environmental Decree, there is no obligation for municipalities regarding civic participation, not even a procedural one. Even for the project procedure and the project decision, the scope of the two provisions is extremely limited, because they relate only to the stage of exploration at the beginning of the procedure. There is no question of citizen participation at later stages of the decision-making procedure. You may ask yourself whether the Environmental Law and the Environmental Decree do meet the conditions for citizen participation in environmental matters as set out in the Aarhus Convention and the European Directives. I would like the Minister to go into this in detail and take the possibility of the Netherlands being flogged back when the judge is asked for a ruling. I am, of course, curious as to how she intends to rectify this. I also ask her about the implementation of the Smalling motion on equal participation. Can she also tell us about the development of interactive games, proposed by Mr. Smaling, to make people more familiar with spatial quality? I would also like to look with the Minister at the deadlines she is proposing to us. The time limits for certain procedures are shortened. The procedure for an out-of-plan deviation from the zoning plan shall be shortened from 26 weeks to 8 weeks. These are derogations from land use plans which the municipalities and provinces previously considered needed a longer procedure in order to reach a reasonable balance. This concerns an intervention in the rights of interested parties, for example when a plot previously assigned to a place of residence is destined for industry. A period of eight weeks is almost certainly too short. You can expect stakeholders to be less able to defend themselves and there is not enough room for careful consideration. There is a reduction in legal protection and participation. I wonder what kind of problem the Minister intends to solve with this. The government can decide at the front, in the zoning plan, what it wants or does not want to include in the zoning plan. This includes a careful procedure with participation. Does the Minister agree with me that stakeholders other than the government or the applicant, such as those living around, should have the same level of participation as is currently the case in determining what the environmental plan is now? Does she agree with me that a procedure in which there is a reaction and argument on views is more appropriate to the interested parties than the limited review of objections and appeals as they currently apply in the regular procedure? A deadline of eight weeks is also considered too short for sound decisions by others than citizens. From various sides, it is asked to allow municipalities and provinces to decide for themselves whether the regular or the extended procedure applies to an application for authorisation. The Minister wants the extended procedure to be applied only when Europe has to. It argues that there is considerable time savings because the extended procedure involves 26 weeks, while the regular procedure is fastest done in 8 weeks. But that is only true if no objection or appeal is made, because then both proceedings will take about the same time. Who would like to meet the Minister with this? This seems particularly to be the initiator and not the citizen who stands up for his interests or the government who has to go through a procedure with steam and boiling water. Municipalities and provinces will now have to handle complex licence applications in eight weeks. You cannot expect evaluators, such as municipal councils, and stakeholders, such as local residents, to be able to make a good judgment in that short time. That is why IPO, VNG, the Council of Justice, the Union of Water Councils, as well as nature and environmental organisations, professors and lawyers are asking for local authorities to decide whether to opt for the regular or extended procedure. Let them decide by what procedure they are entitled to the smooth handling of an application for authorisation. It is trusted in this law that those who take an initiative have an eye on the interests of others and will not harm them. It is trusted that municipalities and provinces benefit from this law, which should clarify what should and should not be done. Let us therefore trust that governments understand and argue the appropriate procedure for an application so that a good decision can be taken. We thus also avoid the risk of rejecting complex applications too quickly or the very detailed and closed environmental plans. The shortening of procedures now seems to be a kind of rapid procedure for substantially changing a zoning plan, but that is not what the Minister is trying to do. I trust the Minister will take this plea very seriously. I will tell her that I am prepared to submit proposals in this area in the second term. I come to the subject of health, which has also been discussed on a number of occasions. The point here is the balance between exploiting and protecting the physical environment and filling up user space. I don't think we'll ever agree on that. The Minister states that she does not want to be more ambitious than Europe demands, while we can make meters here and work faster towards the ambitions we have been set by, for example, the World Health Organisation. Even the IPO warns of a sneaky deterioration in air quality and of standard filling. Europe demands air with no more than 40 micrograms of fine dust per cubic metre, while the WHO recommends a maximum of 20 micrograms. The Minister himself is in control of this by setting the maximum speeds. She is the minister of the 130-signs. They have a psychological effect: the motorist can enter the gas pedal deeply, while it saves little time and the neighbors breathe dirtyer air than is necessary. My question to the Minister is: why is she taking this kind of action? Not because you have to, but because you can? The SP doesn't want to complete that space entirely, but just constantly adjust the boundaries to work on health. The Empire should not take measures that do not actually serve any purpose, but rather create a part of the space. Health is a big good. We must also ensure that people are not exposed to too much noise. This law does not have to comply with noise standards for 10 years. That is an outstretched hand to those who want to take an initiative, but who will stand up for those who suffer from it? The Minister's reply that the cabinet is committed to further improvement without setting new standards is too non-binding. The starting point "no deterioration" can be much more ambitious by referring to "as much improvement as possible." In addition, I would suggest to the Minister that the quality of the living environment should be kept under constant review and that this should be taken seriously. ICT is vital to this law. The Minister's latest reports are alarming. Is she prepared to keep us regularly informed of the state of play? And can she tell us how the project will fit without the bill being deposited with others? I come to my conclusions. We can improve the environment with the implementation of the Environment Act, but unfortunately the Minister opts for the much less ambitious European standard. I would suggest to the Minister that she can go into history if the Minister of Transport protected that health and environment vigorously. The SP wants to maintain the legal protection, the 26-week deadline for outdoor plans to deviate from the environmental plan. They are complex decisions that have a major impact on the living environment. Citizens must be able to defend themselves carefully. I also note that there is a contradiction with the Aarhus Convention and European directives on civic participation. I'm asking the Minister to put that right. If we rely on trust, then we should also give municipalities and provinces the opportunity to use the procedure that best supports the process. Let them choose for themselves a regular or an extensive procedure. We know this minister as someone who seeks solutions and, if possible, responds to questions and proposals. I look forward to her reply, but not until I have reported that the SP also supports Mrs Vos's words on the Disability Treaty. Another speaker spoke about this, but his name slipped my mind for a moment. We too hope that the Minister will be able to reassure the people on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u9	Mr Verheijen spoke about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u10	The SP strongly supports Mrs Vos and Mr Verheijen's plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. "If you had to study all the laws, you wouldn't have time to violate them." I don't know if Goethe, when he wrote this down, thought about the draft decisions under the Environment Act, but in that case he had a forward-looking perspective. Today we deal with four AMvBs with about 600 pages of hard legal text. I am not even talking about annexes, definitions and explanations. It's unprecedented. This legal text may have even more influence than the Environmental Act itself on the protection of citizens and the environment and on the development potential of businesses. In dealing with the Environment Act, my group has already objected to the many important standards being passed on to AMvB level. That objection has only increased in the course of the review of these AMvBs. Democratic legitimacy is at stake. The Council of State has also warned about this before. I would like to urge the Minister to consider what important standards should be included in the Environment Act itself when completing the introduction law. The Council of State still has to advise on environmental decisions. I ask the Minister to make the decisions final only after the Council of State's opinions have been sent to the Chamber and the Chamber has been able to take note of them. These are environmental decisions that would not be inappropriate to the level of the legislative proposal. Please be careful over speed. With regard to the SGP, it is unsatisfactory to introduce so many important standards per AMvB. I also have a look at the Supplementary Nature Act, which has been submitted for consultation. The substantive provisions are all transferred to an AMvB, while, in fact, these substantive provisions derive directly from the European Birds and Habitats Directives. They have a lot of impact and are subject of strong political discussions. We shouldn't want that to happen. Then I'll come to the Environment Order. The Minister chooses to follow the extended authorisation procedure in much less cases. That is a good thing in itself. It is now too often that initiators have to wait much longer than is necessary. I do have a few more questions. Lawyers indicate that, for example, in procedures involving several administrative bodies, the regular procedure gives little time. There is a risk that decisions will have to be made hastily and that stakeholders will object, with all the delay that this will cause. How much does the Minister consider this risk to be? And is the assumption correct that the introduction law gives initiators the opportunity to opt for the extended procedure? Has the Minister considered allowing municipalities to opt for the extended procedure if another administrative body is involved? In the case of "no significant changes', the extended procedure is not involved. The legal text does not properly indicate what is meant, with all the legal risks involved. I'd like a more detailed explanation from the Minister. Isn't it wise to record this better? We must prevent a forced choice of the regular procedure from having a counterproductive effect. That is something to at least follow well after the introduction of the law and underlying decisions. Then I come to the Decision quality living environment. The Delta Programme and the Water Management Agreement indicate that it is very important that the use of the water test in planning processes is adequately secured. The Water Management Agreement also mentions structural visions, now the environmental vision. In the Design Decision quality living environment an instruction rule is included for environmental plans, regulations and project decisions, but not for environmental visions. The SGP does not consider this to be a good thing: water safety and climate adaptation can have a major impact on plans and projects. This must be taken into account at an early stage. The water test should also become less non-binding, including mandatory disclosure of the advice of water managers. I would like to amend the decision on this point. The SGP is also deeply concerned about the rules of instruction for nature conservation, section 7.3 of the Quality of Living Environment Decision. The intention was initially to implement the current rules in a policy-neutral way. In the further report, however, the Minister says that she is going to put a shovel on top of it. Compensatory measures must be implemented before the start of the activity. Now it says that significant deterioration must be avoided. The Minister wants to prevent any deterioration, whether significant or not. That is a fundamental difference. The possibility of financial compensation through the National Green Fund also seems to be at risk. The SGP cannot yet follow this line. I fear that legal struts on the square millimetres, as is already the case under the Natura 2000 regime. We don't have to go that way. Is the Minister prepared not to pursue the tightening up of Article 7.7 of the Quality of Living Environment Decision? Article 8.7 of the Quality of Living Environment Decision provides that an environmental permit may only be issued if it is ensured that, among other things, no significant environmental pollution is caused. I believe that this wording goes far beyond the current provisions for the Environment Environment Authorisation. Is that impression correct? And what consequences does that have? Does that mean more research requirements for companies? Does that mean more legal twitching on that known square millimeter? That's what we need to avoid. Article 8.8 of the Quality of Living Environment Decision provides that the rules in the environmental plan should be included in the review of the application for an environmental permit for an environmentally harmful activity. A fairly non-binding formulation. Environmentally harmful activities not subject to authorisation shall be subject to the rules of the environmental plan in any case. This would mean that in similar situations a particular rule in the environmental plan is not directly applicable at one time or another. Why not opt for a less non-binding provision? The Environment Act contains a general duty of care to ensure that companies do not do anything crazy, even if there are no specific rules or licensing obligations. In addition to the specific rules and licensing obligations, there are also specific care obligations to ensure that environmental values are protected. These care obligations are much broader than in, for example, the current Activity Decision. How is this going to work in practice, especially now that open standards have been set in various respects? That's what I'm worried about. Can this mean that citizens and businesses will have to show much more often that they comply with the duty of care? Should citizens and businesses strike a blow in the air about the application of environmental values? The government states that it is possible that, in the event of a progressive understanding, promoters may even be forced to do more than the rule in question. The SGP doesn't want to just go along with this. The duty of care is intended as a safety net. Does the Minister intend to ensure that the legislative power does not place the interpretation and interpretation of environmental values and standards entirely on the board of the executive and the judiciary and that citizens and businesses have to prove that they meet these requirements? At the time the Environmental Act enters into force, the existing zoning plans are designated as an environmental plan. Municipalities get up to ten years to draw up a new environmental plan. But what about, for example, the standards for sound, vibration and smell? They're not in the zoning plans and they're just coming back into the new environmental plan. However, the legislation in question will expire as soon as the Environmental Act enters into force. How's the Minister gonna take this? The final introduction of the Environmental Law and the decisions under discussion are eagerly awaited. Apart from the content, it is crucial that the whole system is adapted to the new way of working. Do civil servants and directors indeed seize the opportunity to deliver customised work and to fully assess plans or fear their consideration space and do they not get enough of new investigations, delays and detailed regulations? In the latter case, we're a long way from home. I get the signal that many municipalities, provinces and environmental services are hardly yet involved in the Digital System Environment Act, while this system is going to play a very important role. How does the Minister deal with these risks? I look forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u12	Madam President. For the D66 Group, the key question of this debate is: do the four AMvBs that are before us today make it easier and better for citizens, administrators, business and civil society to create a good balance in the Netherlands in protecting and exploiting our physical environment? Of course, my group appreciates the amount of work that has already been done in this complex and necessary legislative process. Nevertheless, my group is questioning the chosen approach to introduction tracks, main tracks and complementary tracks, and constantly new parts of legislation with conditional information and promises that more information will be forthcoming soon. The question is above all what moving to AMvBs and the Introduction Act means for legal certainty. I'd like a response from the Minister. After all, it is difficult to get an overall picture and always to judge by individual subtrack. Of course, the Introduction Act is still in place, and the AMvBs are relatively easy and quick to adapt. The National Environment Vision will also have to provide more clarity. Nevertheless, the D66 group feels that the Ministry's train is pervasive on all these tracks, but that citizens, drivers and business at the station are watching the train pass by and there is too much uncertainty as to what happens to that train when it is beyond the horizon. In other words, how does the Minister ensure a balance between the importance of rapid implementation and due diligence of the process? I'd like a response. In addition to what many colleagues have said, my group confines itself to three key points of the Environment Act: the participation, the position of municipalities and the climate. I'll get to the participation first. It is clear from the Minister's reply that she considers that there is sufficient attention in the Environment Decision to the issue of participation because the environmental plan, the environmental vision and the programme state that citizens, administrative bodies, businesses and civil society organisations should be involved in the preparation. This involvement must be demonstrated in retrospect. The city council should indicate in advance how these parties will be involved in the preparation of the environmental plan. In addition, the Minister refers to the inspiration guide on the website aandelagmetdeparatiewet.nl. Does my group understand that this is the forthcoming hand-out? We received an interesting suggestion from Eelco de Groot of TU Delft about the instrument Social Impact Assessment, the sister of the EIA. Is the Minister aware of this instrument, which has apparently proved to be very useful in participation pathways abroad? Would she like to include it in the inspiration guide? Unfortunately, this inspiration guide has no legal status. And, of course, municipalities must have the space to shape participation paths on the basis of local conditions and their own culture. However, the D66 Group continues to raise serious objections to the fact that no standards and no minimum requirements for participation are laid down in the Environment Decision. For example, when did participation take place in an appropriate way? Or what happened to the results of the participation process? In addition, there is in practice no way to assess whether the competent authority has adopted a participation plan. I'd like a response from the Minister. Much has already been said by my SP colleague, Mr Meijer, about the extensive preparation procedure. That is why I repeat here only where my group sees particular problems. The members of the D66 Group consider it to be too limited an indication that the application of the extended preparatory procedure is limited to what is mandatory under European law. We would like to hear again from the Minister why this was chosen and whether she also sees the risks in this choice. If local authorities do not have the confidence to use the extended preparation procedure, but are limited to the regular procedure, then the participation procedure for stakeholders and anyone who wishes to submit an opinion will also disappear. The competent authority may not take a final decision accompanied by a public opinion paper. This note is in practice an important source of information for municipal councils and provincial states. VNG, IPO and the Union of Water Councils also advocate giving municipalities the opportunity to apply the more extensive procedure and to do justice to participation and public administration. Of course, the D66 Group supports the ambition to make governance as effective as possible. However, my group is in favour of allowing the competent authority to apply the more extensive preparation procedure, so that, in the case of complex and controversial decisions, there is sufficient time for careful decision-making by the municipal council and participation of citizens. Companies are also obliged to involve their environment in construction activities. What impression does the Minister have on how the Environment Act lives with construction companies and developers? In the end, they will be an important partner for municipalities in the implementation of the Environment Act. How is it ensured from the government that the interplay between companies and their environment is in good harmony? Finally, there is the question of participation. The legislation stands or falls with digitisation and access to information. Other groups have already contributed to the cost aspect and the concerns about it. This country has 2.5 million low-literate people and many older people struggling with the digitisation of information. These people also have the right to participate in the organisation of their environment. How can these groups also have access to understandable information, thereby increasing the likelihood of them being involved in participation pathways? Is the Minister prepared, for example, to involve the Reading and Writing Foundation in the environmental vision and other communication surrounding this legislation, so that equal opportunities for participation are guaranteed? I'm joining the congregations. This complex legislative operation requires a lot of our entire administrative system, whether national, provincial or local authorities. At all levels, among civil servants, city council members, citizens and businesses. The D66 group received signals that mainly municipal councils of smaller municipalities struggle with the preparation for the Environment Act because they do not yet know what to expect. Previous speakers have already asked extensive questions about the planning and financing of the digital systems that are crucial for the implementation of this law. What happens if municipalities are not in order at the planned time of the introduction of the law? I'd like a response from the Minister. Asking council members shows that local and local initiatives are being taken by municipalities, but that regional initiatives are still often lacking, especially when it comes to cross-border problems in the areas of housing, space and sustainability. For example, ambient air quality values for particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide have been laid down by municipalities only without a joint programme obligation to ensure those environmental values. This choice, which is made at a rich level, can in practice lead to curious situations. My question is therefore: what is the Minister going to do, on the basis of her responsibility for this choice, to ensure that municipalities cooperate properly at regional level on cross-border issues? Fortunately, there are some good examples: in the region of Gooi and Vechtstreek, a regional cooperation agenda with council members from seven municipalities has been developed with implementation programme. But how do we get all the municipalities to pick up the glove? I'd like a response. I'm getting to the climate. Following the Paris climate agreement, calls for green measures have become increasingly loud, not only from different environmental organisations, but also from industry. In a transition coalition, Heineken, Shell and the port of Rotterdam call for a new climate law. Ten youth organisations of political parties, led by Jan Terlouw, released the climate manifesto. Lots of fine words and commendable ambitions. However, the harsh reality is that the Netherlands and Dutch companies are by no means the forerunners they claim to have. On the contrary, especially when it comes to CO and healthy air emissions. My group would like to see more ambition, including in these AMvBs, so that the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement on sustainability, energy transition and healthy living environment are brought closer sooner than later through this legislation. The D66 Group therefore wants to hear from the Minister how the present AMvBs can contribute to an Environmental Law that is climate proof and future-proof, including at regional and local level. Not only that, we also like to hear how this whole legislative process can contribute positively to achieving the goals of the Paris Climate Treaty. We would like to see a concrete timetable for this until the moment of implementation of the Environment Act in 2019. My group has some specific questions about standards. In a further written consultation, the Minister indicated that it would only include CO as an environmental value in the Quality of Living Environment Decision if it appeared that this was an appropriate way of achieving the longer term objective. Will the Minister explain what the conditions would be for her to actually do so? In further written consultations, the Minister replied to our question about peak noises following the Peutz report that it did not include general peak standards for the day period for reasons of feasibility. Isn't it a little easy to say that we don't adopt healthy standards when they're hard to achieve? I'd like a response from the Minister. Healthy air is vital, not only for the one million people in the Netherlands with lung problems, but for the entire Dutch population. We regret that the Minister is not already committed to maximum health benefits and does not wish to go beyond achieving EU standards, which are not equivalent to really healthy air. That is why my group continues to advocate sound standards for particulate matter, for example, where the standards set by the World Health Organisation should be appropriate for the members of the D66 Group. Why does the Minister not take over the World Health Organisation's target for particulate matter? After all, ambitious local authorities know what to strive for if they really want to make the air healthy for their inhabitants. I'd like a response. The D66 Group looks forward to the Health Council's opinion on clean air, which is expected at the end of 2017. This opinion is not only about particulate matter, but also about other substances harmful to humans, such as nitrogen dioxide. My question is first of all: does the Health Council have actual targets? To that end, the D66 Group in the Lower House asked for the investigation. The second question is, logically, how the opinions of the Health Council are taken into account in this legislation. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally. The D66 Group also supports earlier comments from colleagues from GroenLinks, SP and PvdA on the need for reassurance on the application of the Disability Convention. We note with regret that, as demonstrated by the Minister's reply in the further written consultation, there is no possibility of exemption for accessibility requirements, for example in the case of student residences. I'd like a response. My group is also looking forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u13	Madam President. First of all, the VVD Group would like to thank the Minister for answering the many questions put. To be able to live together in a densely populated delta like the Netherlands, a fine-meshed web of legislation and regulation has emerged. Since the Mining Act of 1810, the first Dutch law on the environment, this system has become increasingly complicated, more fragmented and increasingly opaque. We're jammed in our own regulations. Or, as someone put it, we kind of lost the common conversation underneath the oak tree. Or isn't it? Because an important second reason, among many others, can be read in the recent TrendRede 2017. It shows that the individualisation effort continues at a rapid pace. Our society is rapidly developing in a direction where residents pick up more things themselves, organise their own partnerships and especially expect a facilitating role from the government, in order to make the most of our common space and to set up on the basis of faster decision-making and local balancing space. At the same time, however, the same government is also given a caring role in terms of safety, nature, the environment, climate adaptation, health and so on. This is also within a framework of careful rules, predictability and legal certainty for residents and businesses. Many of the previous speakers commented on this. In short, reasons too over to adapt our spatial laws and regulations to the developments and wishes of our time. The members of the VVD Group therefore wholeheartedly support this major change in the system, together with a large majority so far in the Second and First Chambers and a wide range of civil society organisations. However, this wording has been used by members of the VVD Group - there is clearly work in progress. The extended follow-up trails are not entirely temporary. Subjects that are not yet ready have been moved to a later part to be completed. Other issues will be included retroactively in a previously agreed regulation. Two-way crossover. To maintain the momentum, that is more than understandable. For the First Chamber as co-legislator it is not super clear. For the VVD Group, the main question is: will paper and physical reality meet? In other words, what about the EXERCISE, feasibility in capital, viewed from our position as members of the First Chamber? The members of the VVD Group have opted for three subjects that we would like to put to the cabinet. First, the concepts of "up-to-date" and "fit for the future," in the context of other recent decentralisations and in the context of new political and administrative developments. Secondly, the Digital System Environment Act, which focuses on security, knowledge and finance. And finally: measuring, monitoring and learning. To start with "up-to-date." In the meantime, several governments are working with each other and with residents, companies and organisations of all kinds with the Environment Act in over 100 pilots. Positive sounds can be heard about this. Governments must learn to act in a different way and to relate to their environment in a different way. For all governments, this also means internal social innovation and a different organisation of their work. The Minister also regularly states that the Environment Act offers opportunities for directors with vision and courage. The members of the VVD Group support that call. These members would like to hear the Minister's views on the decentralisation paradox which is now well-known in the social domain. Smaller municipalities in particular will not be able to cope with this mega operation, which is likely to result in a decentralised scaling-up and thus a gap in democratic control and balancing. Of course, regional environmental services can play an advisory and supportive role with their knowledge and skills. The risk of a policy-making RUD is looming. How does the Minister view these two points? And then "fit for the future." The legal fitness seems to be present in the proposals, but now the mental and physical fitness. After all, the administrative visions and developments follow each other at a rapid pace. I'll give you three. First of all, the report entitled Make the difference, of Secretary-General of the Interior Richard van Zwol from more than two years ago. It preaches on a dehierarchization of the relation provinces-municipalities. Pilots should provide recommendations based on empirical analyses on the functioning and organisation of public administration aimed at facilitating economic growth. The content is paramount, with a leading role for the municipalities and a much more marginal role for the provinces. There is actually no relationship with the Environment Act, which polishes the role of the provinces. In the meantime there are six regional test gardens, where for example those of the Amsterdam Metropolitan Region are starting to get schwung and energy. A second political-administrative development is Code Orange, the initiative of several hundred mayors, aldermen, entrepreneurs, scientists, active citizens and others, which advocates a thorough redesign of the administrative establishment. It looks at the combination of representative and participatory democracy. The Vice-President of the Council of State did not say very positive words about this in his 2016 annual report, but the initiative stands. Finally, the report on multiple democracy, the report by Commissioner Wim van de Donk. He advocated the restoration of local democracy. According to him, the existing administrative mold doesn't work anymore. A "right to inequality" should be introduced, both in working methods, tasks and administrative arrangements. In other words: one municipality is not the other, says Van de Donk. Would the Minister also like to give her views on these developments in relation to the proposals before us on the road to a completely new environmental law? The question arises as to whether the institutional plans, which Home Affairs and others developed and develop in relation to the establishment of the public administration will soon be consistent with the division of competences in the Environment Act based on the traditional classification through Thorbecke's home. And although the aforementioned initiatives do not advocate the complete destruction of Thorbecke's house, there is a possible different classification, with parallel stairwells and a few bays. The members of the VVD Group are curious about the Minister's view on these developments in the light of the Environment Act and the present AMvBs. Is the intended set of laws and regulations sufficiently adaptive in a responsible way when looking at the division of powers? And would any future shift of powers between different levels of government or possible new forms of government cooperation, given the great importance for citizens, not be better placed through a legislative change than through an amendment of the environmental decision? My group is also looking forward to the Council of State's view on this in its forthcoming advice on the current AMvBs. This brings me briefly to the plenary contribution of my colleague Siebe Schaap recently on 16 May to the Law on land-based growth dairy farming. That law hardly does more than converting an AMvB into a regular law. At the request of the First Chamber at the time, this is in fact a correction on constitutional grounds. According to my colleague Schaap, it is "the example of a trend in which legal texts are transferred to implementing acts. This gives laws the character of framework laws, which no longer regulate the content. AMvBs are upgraded to regular laws, which is contrary to the purpose of implementing acts and related procedures." It's like we're talking about the whole environmental law process here. The members of the VVD Group are well aware that they agreed to the basic design of the new environmental law at the time of the adoption of the Environment Act. However, the reservations expressed by the members of the Council of State during a recent discussion did, among other things, rethink. Wouldn't some important aspects be better off with a position in the law? In particular, my group is thinking, on the basis of the principle of care, of the issue of new forms of cooperation between governments or the desired shifts of powers between governments. I would like to refer to the comments made by previous speakers on this subject. I'm going to go to the Digital System Environment Act. The aforementioned Secretary-General Richard van Zwol offered the Mak Waar report in mid-May! of the Study Group on Information Society and Government. Among other things, it talks about the necessary digital leadership of the government. The attack of 12 and 13 May with hostage software also illustrated this. The Internet has become a public space. That's where order has to be kept. And the government has an important role to play in this. In any case, this requires an immense catching-up of drivers and civil servants. This goes without saying for all levels of government and policy. But doesn't the minister, in relation to the new Environment Act and the crucial role of the Digital System Environment Act, also see a role for the government in helping to achieve this knowledge catching up? For this immense system revision, digital communication is a prerequisite for success. This is still separate from the financial predictions, which also do not show a rosy picture. The Minister's replies to several political groups on this issue, as included in the report of the further written consultation, do not reassure the VVD Group. The necessary funding, which has already been forecast, does not seem to be secured. At the present time, there is also a need for strong security mechanisms. Has this been taken into account? That is what my group is asking itself. The DSO looks at several points the Achilles' heel of the Environmental Law Process. The VVD Group is looking forward to the Minister's view on this. Finally, our third point is measuring, monitoring and knowing, and so learning. Legal craftsmanship is largely behind us. The real work, the implementation, is now starting to start. For example, we go from tens of thousands of zoning plans to 382 environmental plans. Partly because of the complexity of the implementation and the transition period of ten years, it will only become clear if and how the Environment Act helps achieve the underlying goals. In addition to the hard goals of environmental plans, environmental visions, programmes and procedures, environmental legislation also uses a different way of working, whereby interests are weighed early, limiting to important aspects, enabling local customization within ranges, trust is the basis and a more cyclical approach is pursued. Governments will choose their own path. The way in which this road to full and full implementation is made is still largely unclear. This process is reminiscent of the Delta programme process. The goals are largely clear, the path to them will be quite different. The implementation of the Environment Act is therefore not so much a project as a process, a movement. An important part of the success of the implementation will therefore be determined on the way. In doing so, we will have to jointly organise learning capacity. In this respect, the Empire has a great responsibility not only to continue to guide the introduction, but also to keep alive the philosophy behind the new legislation. In response to GroenLinks' request on monitoring in the second round of questions, the Cabinet indicated that integrated indicators would be developed and that monitoring and data collection would be regulated by ministerial regulation. We do not yet have the impression that there is a structured, robust and coordinated approach, and the response of the cabinet therefore sounds a bit thin in the ears of the VVD Group. We believe that the introduction of the Environment Act can be described as a so-called large project, in accordance with the large project procedure in the Lower House. As an example of a major project, the scheme mentions new legislation with major administrative or organisational implications. In my group's view, this includes a full, robust, well-designed and well-thought-out monitoring with also well-thought-out indicators, feedback mechanisms and reports on target range. This is important in the context of political accountability, but it is also crucial for the joint development of learning capacity and therefore for a successful social introduction. Many of my colleagues have already mentioned this need for serious monitoring in different terms. The VVD does not seek to further increase the costs of this system review. However, the costs seem to be able to bear fruit here. Can the Minister tell us how she looks at setting up a long-term, well-structured monitoring and feedback programme as an essential part of a successful implementation and, in particular, successful implementation of the overall environmental law system? We, too, naturally await the Minister's answers with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u14	I see that none of the Members wishes to speak in the first term. I shall suspend the sitting until 4.50 p.m. so that Members can take part in committee meetings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u15	Madam President. There have been so many questions asked that my file does not remain on my cathedral. I will give you the breakdown I will use when replying. That might help the various members of your Chamber to know when a question will be answered and what piece it will be in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u16	I hope that we can be ready at 6.30 p.m. so that we can suspend again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u17	I will try to keep up the pace, Madam President. But that also depends on the amount of questions that are going to be asked in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u18	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u19	But that's what you're about. I shall first make a few general remarks about today's debate before I give the layout to you. On 15 March, in this house, we talked about the Environment Act, a new law that replaces a lot of laws that are governed by current environmental law. At that time, we found that it was time to come up with a new law, because the current laws are ultimately an obstacle to better and faster decision-making. A new law can not only speed up decision-making but also reduce the burden and improve the quality of the environment. This law therefore has two objectives: it needs to be simplified, but it also needs to be improved. In order to ensure that the Netherlands is ready for the complex tasks ahead of us in the coming years, it is important to come up with such a new legislative system. Last year, on 22 March, this Chamber gave broad support to the Environment Act during the votes. Since then, very hard work has been done to further concreteise the objective of the Environment Act in four coherent AMvBs. These decisions have actually been made in the same way as the law: in consultation with many different parties, with the same conviction, with an open process and many stakeholders who have been able to participate. This has been achieved. Today there are four robust decisions for you. They are decisions that really mean something and really change something, but they can also count on broad support in society. Of course there are always wishes of the various groups. After all the discussion, I know these wishes. But in the broad sense, there's just a lot of support. Last July, I offered the AMvBs to Parliament. The House of Representatives discussed this with me on 19 December last year. I also had discussions with your Chamber in autumn 2016 on the procedure for examining these decisions. Because of course it is quite a complex process, with some kind of framework law, AMvB's and yet again an introduction law. You have to be able to see what's being treated in these different pieces. I have therefore also promised that I will incorporate in the draft decisions amendments that were discussed during the oral and written debate in Parliament. I have indicated that I will no longer make any major changes to the draft decisions and, if necessary, to submit them to your Chamber by means of the suspension procedure or an introduction decision. Following the examination of the draft decisions in Parliament, the decisions will be prepared for presentation to the Advisory Section of the Council of State. In addition, in addition to the points mentioned in the letter, the more technical and more detailed comments from the review and consultation will be taken into account and some clarifications will be included in the notes of the explanatory memorandum. I will inform your Chamber about the publication of the AMvBs in the Official Journal and I will send your Chamber the opinion of the Council of State and the further report. A large-scale review of the regulatory framework creates a tendency to renew the policy immediately. I heard this in the contributions of some groups. However, I have dealt with this very carefully. I have said that a number of smaller innovations could be included in the process of the Environment Act, but a number of larger innovations I deliberately put into separate complementary traces. I believe that the House of Representatives should be able to discuss the substance of the innovations. Think of a new basic policy. There are many political wishes, but also very different wishes in the House of Representatives. You should be able to discuss this separately in the relevant committee, before we can get it incorporated into the Environment Act. The same applies to the subject of nature policy. This was also the subject of a separate discussion. This will also be done in the future with a number of other, larger, substantive pathways. The substantive discussion on the implementation of the Environmental Act will thus take place in a number of separate complementary paths. So that's not because we weren't ready or because we didn't want to do it at once, but because it's wise to do it this way. We can now concentrate on the system and we can concentrate on its content at another time. I would also like to prevent the debate on the new system from snowing down by questions about the need for a different set of standards. I would therefore ask Members to focus today on the functioning of the new system and not so much on all the policy objectives, although I can imagine that Members would like to express them. I would like to say a few words about the process of the introduction law. The renewal of environmental law of course does not stop at the AMvBs; quite the contrary. I sent your Chamber a letter in May of last year, in which I indicated what the main lines of the environmental law would be. I have developed these guidelines in recent times, and consultation on this bill and the review was also launched in January of this year. I have also previously promised Parliament that the introduction law and the AMvBs will be offered simultaneously to the Council of State, so that the Council can look at the documents in conjunction. Of course, the council, like your Chamber, has asked questions about what should be in the law and what should be in the AMvBs. I'll go into that in a minute. But the Council of State will be able to review the documents at the same time. After processing the opinion, I offer the introduction law to Parliament. I suspect that will be in the course of 2018. Today we are talking about all those rules from 60 AMvBs and about 20 ministerial arrangements that we have integrated and harmonised in four AMvBs. The aim was not only to harmonise and integrate. The most important thing is that we have tried to bring the rules into line with the improvements in the system review. I am referring to improving the clarity, ease of use of environmental law, achieving a coherent approach to the physical environment, increasing the scope for consideration and speeding up and improving decision-making on projects in the physical environment. Those are the main targets that were set at the front. That sounds simple, but it was a huge job to finally make that improvement in practice. Take, for example, the instructions for drawing up a zoning plan. They're still shattered over 30 or more AMvBs. All these decisions make use of different concepts, different legal form and different forms of administrative discretion. This complicates the preparation of a good zoning plan. In the Decision quality living environment all those instructions for the environmental plan are just to be found in one place. They are designed in the same way, without all those historical differences. In practice, this really means great simplification. You can imagine that I'm excited about what we've been doing all along. At the same time, your Chamber has asked me a large number of questions and concerns have been raised about certain issues. I have been asked to explain this. I will go into this in my reply as follows. I start with the discussion about the place of standards: in the law versus in the AMvB. How is this system actually set up? Then I will cluster the questions per AMvB. I'll start with the Environment Order. I take the subject of participation with me and, for example, the questions about complex companies. Then I'm gonna move on to the Bkl. In it I take the questions about operating space and balancing space. Next, I will address the questions about implementation, including the Digital System Environment Act. Finally, I would like to answer the questions about the structure of the system review and to say something about the planning and the follow-up process. If there are other subjects, I will deal with them. To start, I'm going into the discussion about AMvB's versus the law. We have had this discussion before, both here in the First Chamber and also in the Second Chamber. Do you have to include the standards in the AMvBs? Why don't you include the standards in the Environment Act? I have talked about this several times with this Chamber, but I also heard Members here saying that they are not convinced on some points. I will try to give you several reasons why we are doing this. The first reason is that there are already a lot of differences. Environmental quality requirements for air are regulated at law level, water is regulated at AMvB level and soil is regulated even at regulatory level, while the nature of all these standards is the same. So these standards are already in different places and it is not that we have now taken them from the main law to the AMvBs. No, they're already in several places. That also means that if you want to take an initiative and do something, you have to look at all these different levels. Sometimes you find it in a ministerial arrangement, sometimes in an AMvB, sometimes in the main law. For the implementation practice this actually means that you can hardly see the forest through the trees. We have chosen to bring all the rules together at AMvB level, because at least you can quickly see at that level where you are in need as a citizen or as a initiator or as a company. Those AMvBs also have some democratic control. If you want to make changes to it, you have a good talk about the content, but there is a certain speed and flexibility in it if you want to change things. A very large part of the substantive standardisation is now regulated in AMvBs, think of the Activity Decision and the Building Decision. For the functioning of those rules, it does not make any difference: that is also important where something is regulated, whether it will be in the introduction law or in the AMvBs: the protection of interests is secured in the same way. That is also what I said in the previous debate on this subject. It does not matter whether it is designed in the AMvB or in the law: the standards are equally harsh and the standards are known. I think I have also chosen a good balance in the relationship between law and AMvB. We will have another discussion about whether or not to include CO in the environmental values. That is a point that was raised by one of the speakers. I would say: wait until the Treaty of Paris is ratified. If you've done that and you agree that that's a good environmental value, then you can record it. Then of course it is as nice if you can do it at a bit of tempo via an AMvB, because a change of law takes many times longer. It can therefore have advantages and it often has advantages: it can be quickly regulated in what is a democratic process. It is, of course, different from the amendment of the law. The Chamber will be involved in another way, but she will be involved. Is it the case that we do not regulate anything in the law and too much in AMvBs? Should you not, for example, simply place powers of national interest, as Mr Flierman also mentioned, with the Empire? Shouldn't you just settle things that lie with the Empire by law? We believe that we have found a good balance, because the law gives guidance on this point, but also leaves room for flexibility and the elaboration of details, in such a way that a layering of the scheme is also prevented. I told you, you shouldn't be looking on three levels. You need to be able to limit yourself to one level. The Council of State will continue to advise on this, but it is clear from the law, not only in Article 2.3, but also in Articles 5.11 and 5.46, which specify more specifically where the State is competent. Now, for example, in my area in the Infrastructure and Space Structural Vision, we have identified a number of national interests. They are, of course, part of that now, but these national interests are changing over and over again. I'm also working on making a national environmental vision. It may well be that new interests will then be appointed at a rich level. For example, we sometimes have discussions about whether a landscape should be regulated at provincial or national level. That's also something that can be constantly adjusted. National interest is also subject to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u20	I'd still like to go back. The Minister actually repeats her arguments to say that material standards should be fully in the AMvB, for reasons of flexibility, speed and awareness for the citizen. In my speech, I have tried very hard to get the Minister to take into account the importance of the co-legislator, who is also this Chamber: we want to deal with the most basic things from a law in the law. We no longer chisel the laws into stone, so they can really be changed, but AMvBs, as the minister now suggests, are almost pseudo-laws. Some of her arguments are no longer as strong as they might have been at the first drawing table. I attach great importance to the co-legislator's interest. That is a great task and a great task for this house, and I am committed to that being taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u21	Mr. Flierman then, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u22	I had the exact same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u23	I understand that, and I recognize that question. There are different interests. You have the importance that as a citizen, initiator, company or anyone else, it can also be a government organization, quickly find what can and cannot be done. It is an interest that, if we want new policies, we can shape them with each other at some pace, but we can regulate them so democraticly that they are visibly secured, not just by ministerial regulation. As I said earlier, there is indeed a difference between the role of the First Chamber in legislation and the role of the First Chamber in an AMvB. That is true, but it is not the case that the First Chamber is not mentioned and cannot influence the legislation. It's just a faster process and it has a different form. It is a social interest that we can respond quickly to things. In matters such as the Delta programme or the Energy Agenda, we often follow an adaptive programme. In the case of the Delta programme, for example, we say that this is where we want to go, but we cannot yet fully see what steps we are going to take. I will then put into a programme what I demand from the other governments, what I want them to do themselves, what I think is of national importance, and what programme we are putting into it. This flexibility is also urgently needed, because the world is not unambiguous. That makes an AMvB more suitable in my view. Is it true that by law, the Chamber can talk about it longer and more? Yes, indeed, that is the case, but given the other interests I think it is better to shape it into an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u24	I think this is a very special balance of interests, where the interests of the citizen are weighed in finding the underlying principles so that they can be found most quickly in the AMvB, an assumption that I have my questions with. If you ask someone here on the street where you can find information about how the regulations are in this country, the answer is: in the law. An AMvB is a lot less known to a citizen as a tool, so I doubt the assumption. I think the most important thing is that laws are passed here, in Parliament, which have a legitimacy in which representative democracy is reflected. That's our job here. The Minister says, above all, I want to be able to be quick and that is why these AMvBs are so incredibly handy. I like it handy, but all the underlying principles of what is being worked out in these AMvBs belong in this Parliament. It may be that sometimes it slows down, but a democracy is sometimes also a little slower. Otherwise, we would have had to choose another form of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u25	Mr. Flierman, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u26	Indeed, in addition to what Mrs Bikker just said. That the Minister says: these AMvBs are more flexible and it goes faster. I believe all of that. That the degree of influence of the co-legislator is the same, I don't believe that. Especially when we define the "co-legislator" as Second and First Chambers together, it is indisputably so for me that Parliament has more influence on legislation in a formal sense than on AMvBs. It is precisely that that is an important reason for me to ask the Minister, in consultation with the Council of State, to look again at the current distribution and to see whether it should not turn out to be something else on a few main points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u27	Clear questions from Mrs Bikker and Mr Flierman. I am not saying that it is at the same level, but I did say that it is also democratically supported. The Environment Act naturally includes safeguards for parliamentary involvement in parliamentary proceedings. Both spokesmen asked to reflect on that. The pending procedure is also common in current environmental law. I follow the well-known principles of legislative technique and procedures. So it is certainly not the world upside down, because the procedure of the veil also provides a guarantee of parliamentary involvement. The draft AMMs have been sent to both Chambers. This has been the subject of an extensive examination, first in the Lower House and now in this Chamber. Both chambers have also organised extensive round tables. I am also grateful to the Chamber for this, because this leads to a deepening of the substance and to a good social debate. It also leads to adjustments, as Members have seen in the answers to the questions. I would like to say that the legal guarantees under the Environmental Act will also apply to future amendments. In addition, the results will be reviewed by the Council of State. This can also be involved in the implementation rules. Afterwards, Parliament can also take stock of the situation, specifically with regard to the introduction rules. As Mr Flierman said, this Chamber is therefore taking stock. That's right. The system is a system under construction. I admit immediately that there is a difference between legislation and AMvBs, but I also argue that there is a good reason to include the standards in the AMvBs, because the societal issues that lie ahead require us to be able to respond quickly and flexibly to them. It really contains a lot of democratic guarantees, as I have just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u28	Mrs Bikker, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u29	The Minister rightly mentions the Council of State. I had very much attached to the opinion of the Council of State on the standards currently mentioned in the AMvBs. However, we have been so organized together, because AMvB's more detailed rules are that the Council of State will not deliver its opinion on them until later. This is a typical example of the fact that the treatment is different in nature and character, whereas there are many standards, at least a number of standards, which had been treated differently at legislative level. This Chamber now lacks the opinion of the Council of State. In this particular case, this will come back to the introduction law, but this will not apply in the future. I think that the Minister's reasoning is too easy from the administrative point of view. I had hoped for a little bit more on the constitutional line. But perhaps she can pick it up now, following this invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u30	I've just tried to indicate why it's partly in line with current environmental law. Some of them use the same structures. A very large proportion of the standards are now either ministerially regulated or in AMvBs; that is what the discussion was about before. Almost all of the spokesmen have asked whether the Council of State is still in a position to give a ruling on this matter. I understand the point. This does not even require a specific opinion, since the AMvBs and the introduction law will be submitted to the Council of State at the same time. The Board may also assess them in conjunction with each other. He also said he'd look into it. The council said at the beginning that it's pretty exciting for him: an Environment Act that doesn't contain the standards yet. Then, as the Council has said, we have to wait for the AMvBs; and then you, Minister, tell us, just as I have said to this Chamber: if you do not like it, you can fix it by the introduction law. So that's as exciting for the Council of State as it is for this Chamber, I think. But the council has also indicated that he dares, that he wants to look at it and see if it works out well. He will certainly not fail to give his final opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u31	I do not know whether the Council of State has already said that it has the courage to do so; we heard some other noises about it a few months ago. But I hear the Minister say the following, on which I think we agree. The questions shall be submitted to the Council of State. The Council of State takes note of this debate but will also be informed through the request for an opinion that the issue of the relationship between the law and the AMvBs is an important issue in this Chamber. That is the subject of the advice, which I welcome. We see the result of this advice and the way in which the government continues it. I am pleased with that. We will examine to what extent the government is implementing this. I only hope that the government will look very seriously at these opinions and, where appropriate, follow them up. We will of course check that again, but then we are already on the back hand. I do think that the Minister should actually promise us that she will look very seriously at it. If she does, I am satisfied on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u32	I'm gonna do that anyway. As I pointed out, there is no need to ask for a separate opinion on this, because the Council of State is going to do the same. Before I started this law, I also asked the Council of State for information, precisely because this is such a complex operation. Actually, due to this operation, the field has been in turmoil for years. You start with a base, then you fill in slowly, and then all the underlying regulations and the introduction law have yet to come. Before we reach an introduction decision, we are really a long way away. In the meantime, it's always a balance. In the meantime, policy-wise, there are new wishes and other things. I also discussed it extensively with Mr Deetman, who did so at the time. He said to me: I dare, because I know that it can be repaired by the introduction law; this is exciting for us too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u33	At this very point I had a question, which occurred to me because the Minister was talking about tension. I didn't actually find that tension in her answer. She did point out the tension we are having about whether it is going to be okay and the tension at the Council of State. My more formal question would be whether this will now be considered in the consultation request. Is it being asked whether the Council of State is again reflecting on the question of standards, whether they should not be laid down in the law in general terms? This also raises an active question to the Council of State on this consideration. We ourselves, as the First Chamber, also have the opportunity to ask for information on this matter, I think. I think it is rather important that, one and a half years ago, when we started the route of adopting the Environment Act, we found that we did establish the body but not the content. Now we see the content and now we ask ourselves: is there sufficient balance between standards and awareness on the one hand and detail and flexibility on the other? The Minister gives us the impression that she is now convinced that this is a good, viable route, while we are still in the apple label balance as to whether this is sufficiently secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u34	Of course I feel that I am on the right route; otherwise I would not dare to submit this to this Chamber. Actually, we said to each other last time, "Wait a minute." Soon this Chamber will see the AMvB's, and then it will get a feeling if she thinks it's safe enough. Most of the Members are now saying that they do not know it quite yet. They would also like to know what the Council of State thinks. That is, of course, the complexity of the AMvBs, which is the opposite. It's coming back. As I have just said in reply to Mr Flierman, there is no need for a specific request for advice, since the draft AMMs and the implementing law are presented at the same time. They are assessed in conjunction. The same applies to the level at which the rules are laid down. This point is therefore already part of the advice provided by the Council of State. Of course, I will make that opinion available from the Council of State and the Government's response to it. I have also promised to do so before the adoption decision is submitted to this Chamber. I just wanted to say something about the standards...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u35	Mrs Stienen, I see you in the starting blocks. Can I get you anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u36	Madam President, I do not know how much longer the Minister intends to deal with the issue of standards and the AMVBs. I have a point about the National Environment Vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u37	I still have some answers to this point, but I would like to say something about the Environment vision in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u38	Otherwise you'll have to suspend until we're ready, Mrs. Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u39	I'm just waiting for the points that are still being inserted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u40	I'll come back to the standards and the law. It is not that there is nothing in the law; I must repeat that. For example, Mrs Bikker asked whether the basic level of protection for water safety and air quality should not be included in the law. But the environmental values ensure the basic level of protection for air quality, water quality and water safety. The principles for the basic level of protection for air quality and water quality are already set out in the law. The basic level of protection is determined by the Air Quality Directive and by the Water Framework Directive. That's what it says. The Council of State can then say what it thinks of that relationship between the law and the AMvB. Following that opinion, it will be considered, if necessary, whether it is appropriate to include the principles for, for example, water safety standards at law level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u41	Can I still listen to this as a, albeit small, commitment? Is the Minister saying that she will look particularly closely at the Council of State's opinion on these points? Will it mention the tension that has been at least raised in the First Chamber and indicate whether it is experiencing it the same way? Of course, it has great confidence in the balance that has been found, but will it come back to that specifically in the introduction law? That would be a small but meaningful commitment for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u42	I have no choice but to come back to this. I think this is a very important element of the discussion we are having here. That was the case with the Environment Act and now with the AMvBs. This will, of course, be the case again with the introduction law. Sometimes you see a lobby to incorporate certain standards into the law, because people think that they are better protected and then I think that one is not more beautiful than the other. However, you are talking about a different discussion, namely the question of how it is democratically regulated and what that means. Is there sufficient consideration of changes? I think that should be discussed in particular. Is this an instrument that works well or not? You said, I think, it may also have been Mr Verheijen that the citizen recognizes himself more in a law than in an AMvB. Of course, because the majority of people probably don't even know what an AMvB is. However, look at other places in my portfolio, such as mobility. We have a taxi bill, an O.V. Act and a road traffic bill. Look at what new vehicles are coming on the road, technologically speaking: cars that can fly, manned drones and hyperloops that go 1,000 km/h. Are the WEpods running between Ede and Wageningen now vans or cars? What are they: there is no steering wheel, no brake, nothing. I think you should actually go to one mobility law where you lose all this distinction and just say what you want in terms of security, data protection and some of those things. If you want to respond to societal developments, legislation may need to become more general. The Chamber is the one that monitors the soundness of legislation, but I myself think that is going to be a bit of a trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u43	Mrs Bikker, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u44	I'm glad the Minister's already putting down an agenda for her successor. Whatever. However, I am not just concerned with the solidity of the law, although I love it solidly. I am particularly concerned about the role of the legislator. That's where the tension is. I hope the Minister really wants to give it up and say it's ready-to-use. In fact, she made a very nice speech, but I still do not have a clear answer as to whether she will agree that precisely that tension, which several colleagues mentioned, will be addressed in the request for an opinion to the Council of State. I mentioned the water safety standard as a starting point. Will she reflect on how she deals with it? Isn't that tension field "that poor First Chamber has something to worry about," but will she be a little intimate in her application and answer her?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u45	I will certainly do so in my reply, addressing the concerns of the First Chamber. I think the Council of State will look at this from its own perspective. I think, however, that the most important thing will be the answers to the questions about the introduction law. The Court can therefore now give its opinion on the AMvBs in the framework of the pending procedure. It is then involved in the creation of the new system at various times. Soon the introduction law will be submitted to your Chamber, so the law. At that time, the First Chamber can also give its final judgment on the new system from its co-legislative role. It can therefore assess the system in its consistency. All the supplemental laws will pass through this Chamber, so she can always keep her finger on the wrist. It may be a little different from what it was, but there is still a lot of monitoring from the Chamber of Appeal. Then there's the clear standard. I believe that the question of the division of powers between AMvB and Mrs Klip's law is at the same point. Mr Van Dijk has also asked questions about the standards in the law. They're at the same point, too. Mr Flierman asked about the parliamentary process. I just said something about that. Mr Verheijen asked how citizens can be relieved by clear standards in environmental planning and permits. We offer the citizen a clear standard. We do this in the Environment Act and in the four AMvBs, but also at a decentralised level in the environmental plan or in the permit. That is what legal certainty demands. In the current situation, location-specific rules are spread across the different AMvBs and separate regulations. In the Environment Act, these rules come together in the environmental plan. That'll make them more findable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u46	I understand, but that wasn't my core question. Now that we see the result, after the deadline, we would like to hear the Council of State explicitly reflect on this too. Does he think that the standards currently contained in the AMvBs are sufficiently enforceable and sufficiently clear for citizens to be considered to be known?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u47	I think it's the same as I just answered. It's offered in conjunction. The Council of State can also assess it in conjunction with each other. This also applies to the level of rules, the level of standards. This is therefore already part of the advice provided by the Council of State. I do not need to give any further examples at the point I have just mentioned. As far as I am concerned, this was about the AMvBs and the legislation. I don't know if there was another question about the National Environment Vision, or is that entrapment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u48	The Minister said she would make a number of points. I'm happy to help her. She talked about frameworking in important transitions that are then included in the National Environment Vision. A number of transitions that we see coming are of course related to energy and climate, housing and mobility. The question is what exactly does the Minister mean by these clear frameworks and how we can take our own role here in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u49	In the National Environment Vision, we are going to address a number of major issues, such as the energy transition: what are we supposed to do with it and what does that mean for the use of territory? If you choose everything windmills, it has a different effect than if you choose nuclear power, for example. Such issues will come back, including mobility, the environment, heritage and so on. At the moment there is an agenda in the Lower House about how we want to draw it up. If the House of Representatives agrees, the Environmental Vision will be further developed. It's a vision, so I don't know by heart how it goes with the First Chamber. Actually, I'm assuming she's going over it, too, but I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u50	Finally, on this point. We just talked about standards in the law and AMvBs. When the Minister talks about frameworks, my group's question is exactly what she means by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u51	It will not be the case that the Environment vision will say that we are going to apply different standards. It actually indicates what the dilemmas are now and how we should translate it spatially and ecologically. Subsequently, the standards and standards will be defined in the laws and regulations. That's the difference between the two. The next part of the Environment Decision is the preparatory procedure. I thought: I'm just doing the hardest things first, so the participation, the preparation procedure and that sort of thing. The question of most groups is why I am carrying out the regular procedure and I do not allow municipalities or other authorities to opt for a more extensive preparation procedure. For the environmental permit, we have said that the most effective procedure applies. The main rule is that that's the regular procedure. A lot has already been discussed with the VNG, the IPO and the Union of Water Councils on this subject, both administratively and administratively. With varying arguments, the domes have always argued in favour of being able to determine the procedure themselves. This is mainly about arguments such as too short a decision-making period or insufficient possibility of participation. I will comment on the arguments and state why I am not in favour of local authorities being able to determine the procedure unilaterally. First, the argument that the decision-making period of the regular procedure would be too short. The regular procedure is fast and effective, within eight weeks. The procedure can be extended to 14 weeks where necessary, for example for complex assessments. In response to Mr Van Dijk's question, it is also true that the involvement of other authorities in the form of consent rights automatically extends the regular decision-making period by four weeks. The term is then 12 weeks by default and can also be extended by six weeks to 18 weeks. I believe that these deadlines are sufficient to enable decisions to be taken in a regular process, because that is what this is all about. If necessary, deadlines may be extended even further with the consent of the applicant. After the regular procedure there is an objection phase. It provides good safeguards such as a hearing, often an independent advisory committee and a full review of the decision. The objection phase thus provides better guarantees for an oral exchange of views with interested parties, the applicant and the competent authority than the extended preparatory procedure. The objection phase only follows if there are real objections. The extended procedure lasts up to six months, as it makes a draft decision available to the public, with an opportunity to submit views. This opportunity is therefore part of the procedure itself and it also occupies a significant part of the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u52	It was not a question of the VVD Group, but the request of the domes, and in particular of the VNG, was to have the opportunity to opt for the extended procedure itself. The essence of the Environmental Act is confidence................................................................................................................................................................................................. Does the Minister not see it as a major risk that, if there is no possibility of the extended procedure, municipalities will tend not to make a very open environmental plan but rather to make it very close? That would happen precisely because of the risk that it will not be possible in the near future or that there will be a huge number of objections and procedures. Then you're actually a lot further away from home. The question is therefore certainly against the background that the Environmental Law assumes trust in the local authorities or by holding on to it, does not throw away the child with the bath water.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u53	That is why I indicated that the municipalities, in consultation with the applicant, can opt for a longer procedure, but the applicant must accept it. They can also extend if necessary because it's complex. If consent is required, the regular decision period is automatically extended by four weeks. There are therefore several possibilities for municipalities to implement the extension. But you have to imagine it a bit: an applicant is already working on a plan but doesn't yet know if he gets the regular procedure or the extra-long procedure. So he doesn't know if he's going to get a procedure of 8 weeks, possibly with a run-off, or 26 weeks. The latter is just very difficult. That is why we have made the choice with the applicant. When it comes to complex questions, such as large chemical companies, the extensive procedure will always be chosen, because it will make them more comfortable. When it comes to simple matters, one can very well choose the smaller procedure. Many of the applications are already covered by European law, for example. This is the subject of the extensive procedure. The extended procedure also applies to an EIA procedure. In fact, everything that is difficult and complex is already dealt with in an extensive procedure. I can hardly imagine what's simpler than the things that remain. You say, isn't it distrust? No, as far as I'm concerned, it's not mistrust, but it's just clarity at the front of the process, where municipalities have the opportunity to apply for extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u54	Now I'm going to hook in, because this is, of course, a point that I raised. I am surprised that the Minister says that it can be eight, twelve, sixteen or eighteen weeks and that it is so very clear. I can't actually make it a chocolate. If I'm a company and I think I'll be done in eight weeks, I understand that very well, but if I know it can be 18 weeks, then I might as well just choose the extended procedure. In other words, just consult with the municipalities and let the municipality or the province make the decision. Isn't that a lot easier and obvious to everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u55	I am not in favour of a competent authority being able to decide itself and unilaterally what procedure is being followed, because I think that really leads to arbitrary choices and uncertainty for initiators. It is then actually a kind of interim decision that has yet to be taken. I think that will only lead to judicial and procedural procedures. There are possibilities for municipalities to ask the applicant to extend the procedure if they are concerned or if necessary. He's gonna have to do that. For you too, an important argument was whether participation can be arranged in such a short time. Participation is, of course, the most effective if it takes place early, so at the front of the procedure. The whole essence of the Environment Act is actually that we don't give all kinds of say afterwards but that we ask all parties to talk before we come up with a good decision. An initiator has often involved a wide range of stakeholders. He shall not do so until an application has been made and the draft decision has been adopted. When we talk about participation, we will also talk about the fact that, as far as I am concerned, participation is not the view, but the process that is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u56	I have a supplementary question on this point. The minister said she doesn't want the competent authority to decide unilaterally on the procedure. In the end, however, the competent authority is always responsible for the decision, for its quality and for the final procedure. The competent authority can also say not to deal with the application because there is not enough information to enable it to take a decision. So the discussion seems to me to be getting semantic. In the end, the competent authority always determines the pace and conclusion of the procedure, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u57	If we look at how we can prevent different decision-making moments in such a procedure and how we can ensure that it is done as well as possible at the front, then we are already trying to have the different interests on the front. That's what we're trying to do. We do not want to shut it down in between or afterwards and then talk about it for a while and look at it. I understand that this leads to uncertainty because it is different from what it was, but at the same time, by making such an enormous commitment to participation at the front, it should be clear to most parties that something has become a simple process at the time a plan is submitted. The Environmental Act states that early participation is encouraged by the need for a person to state whether and how he has involved stakeholders in the submission of each licence application. If a competent authority says that further contact is still needed with interested parties, it may be chosen, in consultation with the applicant, to first submit a draft application for inspection, with the opportunity for views. The application may then be submitted after any adjustments have been made. Another option is that the competent authority, as part of the regular procedure, makes the application for views available. A third option is for the competent authority to establish direct contact with those persons who are presumed to have concerns about the application. Finally, at the request of the applicant, the extended method may also be chosen. There are therefore several possibilities, both for the competent authority and for the applicant himself, to opt for the comprehensive method.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u58	I understand. That is why I would like to clarify to what extent the competent authority actually determines the procedure. You said it so simply: I do not want the competent authority to be unilaterally responsible for it. In my view, in these situations, the competent authority will always determine the way in which the procedure will be concluded. We have now removed the lex silencio positivo. No application may enter into force automatically. I think it is very good that these AMvBs provide that consideration and consideration should be possible. But that means, in my view, that the competent authority will always determine the procedure and how it will be completed. Comprehensive or simple procedure; we note from the discussion that it can go either way, but ultimately the competent authority itself will have to take responsibility for the content of the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u59	For the choice he eventually makes, but not for the procedure. That is the initiator in this case. He's gotta do it right. He's got to back it up. He must also ensure that he engages stakeholders. We give space and speed to an initiator, but we also give that person, that company or that organization the responsibility to do it right. So the initiator bears the responsibility. The municipality has possibilities to intervene, but is not the one who determines the procedure in advance. That's the difference. There is a legal provision when you have to do an extensive procedure, both in EIA cases and in European cases. Furthermore, an initiator can also opt for an extensive procedure. I do not want to give municipalities the right to opt for the extended procedure. So they are responsible for the decision, but not for the procedure. I have just said something about participation. In reply to Mrs Stienen's question, there is therefore no risk that the possibility of participation or good dialogue between the parties will be reduced in a regular procedure. I hope I've just been able to explain why it's the same thing, if not better with the Environment Act. The way we designed this offers the opportunity to take extra time, but the responsibility remains with the initiator. In doing so, we have struck a balance between the interests of the competent authority, silent partnership partnership holders and initiators. I think this is a solution that does justice to all the interests involved. Mr Van Dijk also asked for this, in relation to the not important change. It is true that the Environment Decision contains an exception for minor changes. If a company with an environmental permit for which the extended procedure is mandatory, such as a chemical plant, applies for an amendment to its environmental permit which is not important, the regular procedure shall apply. This scheme is the successor to what is now covered by the environmental neutral change in the Wabo. It is intended that everything previously covered by the environmentally neutral change should be subject to this scheme by the regular procedure. The term "environmentally neutral" was a Dutch invention that exudes that any additional burden on the environment is not environmentally neutral and therefore had to be authorised with the extended procedure. The Industrial Emissions Directive, where the option to apply a lighter procedure for minor changes comes from, offers more scope than that. Therefore, in the Environmental Decree, it was chosen to opt for "not important' rather than "environmentally neutral'. In the consultation responses to the Environmental Decree, a lot of questions came about this term. So Mr Van Dijk is not the only one with questions. I have come to the conclusion that the term 'not significant change' is not clear enough. I would like to be as close as possible to the European directives and to make the most of the scope they offer, but I also want to avoid that the terminology chosen will lead to additional legal procedures. So I will further clarify this provision in the Council of State version of the Environment Decision and bring it into line with the Industrial Emissions Directive in the legislative text. A wording such as "a change which does not have a significant adverse effect on human health or the environment" or similar will be chosen. I will also mention in the explanatory statement what is meant by the provision. Again, the Environment Decision therefore states the activities to which the uniform extended public preparation procedure applies. Thus, for all activities where significant environmental impacts may occur, activities where international law and European obligations require a public preparation procedure, major national monuments activities, environmental pollution activities, the export of an IPCC installation or a Seveso facility and its discharge activities, discharge to the surface water body, landfill at sea, and EIA-related projects, the comprehensive procedure applies. That's also covered by the Environment Act. This was the point concerning the extended preparation procedure covered by the Environment Decision. Of course, the Environment Decision is about much more. It concerns all procedures in force and which administrative authority is competent to grant an environmental authorisation. But it is also about participation, for example. A lot of questions have been asked about that too. Most of the questions that have been asked are about whether the participation as it is currently included complies with international obligations. I really thought: where would this question come from? Because we ourselves feel that this is the case. I'll explain why. A number of international conventions and European directives ensure access to information and participation in decision-making. This applies, for example, to the Aarhus Convention, the Granada Convention, the EIA Directive, the Industrial Emissions Directive and the Seveso Directive. It follows from these guidelines that the public concerned should be able to provide early participation when all options are still open, i.e. again at the front of the process. In the Environmental Decree, in view of the international participation obligation, I also made provision for certain environmental permits to be prepared with the extensive preparation procedures of the General Administrative Law Act. Under the Environmental Act, any person may submit an opinion on a draft decision. The competent authority must also take that view into account when drawing up the final decision. In contrast to Mrs Meijer's statement, an opinion procedure is not an ex post participation. The system thus actually complies with international participation obligations by declaring application of the extended preparation procedure. This is also confirmed by the ruling of the Administrative Court of the Council of State on the implementation of the EIA Directive. The presentation of an opinion on a draft decision is a proper implementation of the EIA Directive, the section said. As far as I can see, there is no need for further substantive regulation of participation on the basis of international obligations and this also complies with Aarhus and the other rules. Mrs Meijer also asks why rules are only laid down on the project procedure and not on the environmental plans or permits. I can reassure her. The Environment Decision also contains rules on the other instruments. For the environmental vision, the environmental plan and the programmes, the decision should indicate how citizens, businesses, civil society organisations and other public authorities are involved in the preparation. In addition, the Environment Decision will include that notification of the intention to establish an environmental plan should indicate how the participation project is being designed. That is also to implement the Van Veldhoven motion. Finally, the Ministerial Arrangement will provide under the Environment Act for the initiator to indicate, when applying for an environmental permit, whether and how residents and other stakeholders are informed and involved. It is up to the initiator to choose an appropriate form. Of course, this depends on the nature of the project and its surroundings, but it is regulated. Mrs Meijer also asked a question about the implementation of the Smaling motion on the development of an interactive game. This motion will be incorporated into the Environment Decision, which will be submitted to the Advisory Section of the Council of State. That's what's being arranged. The Environment Decision will further provide for the availability of information necessary for participation in an accessible manner. About the game jam the following: At the end of 2016, four parties participated in a competition to develop a prototype for a Serious Game. Mr. Smaling was chairman of the jury. The winner develops a full game, which is expected to be completed by the end of this year. Mrs Stienen asked why there were no minimum requirements for participation, for example when it comes to the question of whether participation has taken place in an appropriate manner. Last time we talked about this, too. It is difficult, perhaps even impossible to prescribe truly objective standards for a wide range of decisions. So it is also difficult to include some kind of requirements. What aspect of participation do you want to set standards on: the number of people involved, speaking time, digitisation, a reflection of society? Furthermore, of course, we cannot oblige anyone to participate. However, the General Administrative Law does require careful preparation, with the necessary knowledge and consideration of the interests involved. The General Administrative Law Act regulates that. She also arranges for each decision to be duly justified. That's why we left it there, and not included in the Environment Decision. But that's where it's taken care of. Mrs Stienen further asked whether it was not necessary to look at what has been done with participation. She actually says that only how participation took place is included. I think that is not so bad because the administrative authority must also explain why a decision is being taken. However, I am prepared to add an obligation to justify the environmental vision and the environmental plan, which states that it is also necessary to indicate what has been done with the results of the participation. Mr Flierman asked whether we would like to anchor equality of participation in the regulation. He indicated that citizens should be able to participate in the participation process in an equal way. Experience so far has shown that participation works. Of course, things don't always go well everywhere, but we all have to learn it. There are also pilots in which work is started on the Environment Act. The lessons we draw from this will be included in the Digital Inspiration Guide Participation Environmental Law, which is also explicitly intended for citizens. It focuses on involving citizens. For example, different tips are given to allow others than the usual suspects to participate. Think of the use of social media, the organisation of people who are not organized and the search for missing target groups. Work sessions and knowledge circles are also organised by and for different parties across the country, as well as participation codes and hand-outs. For example, the Association Eigen Huis is preparing a participation charter for homeowners. Different target groups are supported from the practice in different ways, so that there are sufficient opportunities for everyone to participate. I don't think it's necessary to include a requirement for equivalence in the AMvBs. You must above all ensure that you are able to involve the different groups in your inspiration guides.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u60	The Minister's conclusion that she doesn't think there's any need to include anything about that in the AMvBs is going too fast for me. It seems important to me that the administrative body that makes the decision can assess whether all the parties who wish to participate in that participation have had an equivalent opportunity to make their views known. In this sense, it seems important to me to include an equivalence criterion as a basis on which an administrative body must assess whether the participation has taken place carefully. The fact that there are now all kinds of initiatives to shape participation is fine, but I think that the administrative body that takes a decision must ask itself how that process has taken place and whether everyone has been treated in an equal manner as being reasonable. That was the background to the question. The Minister says that this is not necessary, referring to all kinds of initiatives. I think that's a little short. I think there is indeed a duty on the part of administrative bodies to look closely at that. I would like to see that duty anchored in an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u61	Let me get back to that in second term. My first thought is: you strive for equality, but you cannot drag people into it. You cannot achieve an equivalent reflection when it comes to participation. I once, when I was very young, had to create a participation manual for BZK myself. The biggest energy went to him in the question of how to get groups at the table that you would otherwise never have at the table. That was many years ago, but the problem still exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u62	The latter I fully agree with the Minister. She should not interpret my question as: how do you ensure that anyone who could be slightly involved comes to the table? I am particularly concerned about ensuring that those involved are given a good opportunity to make their contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u63	Yes. I just need to think about how best to shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u64	Thanks to this fantastic legislation, we are all becoming international legal specialists. However, according to our information, the Aarhus Convention explicitly states that citizens must be involved early. My group would be very pleased if this could also be included in the AMvB, because there is, of course, a deadline in this early stage. I can well imagine that there is a difference in interpretation: perhaps some municipal councils find "early" three days in advance, which seems too short to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u65	I also know that the public must be able to participate early, so if all options are still open. So that's not three days in advance, if the plan is already there. That is why I said: it is not the point of view, it is the participation at the front that is so important. That is why I have arranged for certain environmental permits to be covered by the extended preparation procedure of the General Administrative Law Act. Under the Environmental Act, any person may submit views on a draft decision. So that's early, too. The competent authority must take those views into account when drawing up the final decision. So this is settled. I will conclude my answer to Mr Flierman's question. I still have to think about what a good term is for that. He heard my concern, and that's not what he's trying to do. I need to see if it's taken care of. Mrs Vos asked if I wanted to set procedural and substantive conditions for participation. This is mandatory because of international regulations. Participation is bespoke. Location, kind of decision, environment and stakeholders are different each time. This makes it difficult to impose procedural and substantive requirements on participation. However, I believe that there should be good guarantees or quality standards. Furthermore, I believe they have been recorded. Indeed, it is stipulated that the notification of an environmental plan and the project procedure should specify how participation is to be regulated. Then everyone will know in good time how and when they can be involved in the preparation of a decision. I also intend, following the Smalling motion in the Environment Decision, to arrange for the necessary information to be made available in an accessible manner. I understand the desire to record as much as possible for uncertain future situations, but we do not know what types of participation will take place in the future. Who could have thought ten years ago that 3D simulations would be used to set up a square? We must choose that the competent authority ensures an appropriate form of participation, taking into account who is at the table, for example, low-lettered people, and that means of communication are again provided. This must be in line with diversity, practice and future techniques. Mrs Vos spoke about the Aarhus Convention and the EU directives. I've just tried to explain why I think it's appropriate and why I think that's important. Mrs Stienen asked if the Inspiration Guide is the same as the one previously announced. That's right. The hand-out promised to you has now been named Inspiration Guide Participation. We have used the input of nature and environmental organisations, scientists, citizens, professionals, the Commission for the Environment. And the G.D.D.'s. Anyone who has now become curious can view the Inspiration Guide on the website aandelagmetdemachtwet.nl. In any case, it is intended for anyone who has ideas about the organisation of the participation process. You can find examples, work forms and tips. He keeps renewing himself, because he can be supplemented by anyone. An instrument such as SIA, social impact assessment, which forces the analysis, monitoring and mitigating the social consequences of large, complex projects in the physical environment, is interesting. It is applied in some countries. A SME is also such a type of instrument. I can well imagine that, in certain large, complex projects, an SIA is chosen and included in the Inspiration Guide Participation. How do disadvantaged groups gain access to understandable information in participation pathways? For example, I involve the Stichting Lezen & Schrijven in the environmental vision or other communication. In any case, I intend to pay attention to disadvantaged groups in the Inspiration Guide. The work of the Stichting Lezen & Schrijven, which, among other things, makes websites more accessible through, for example, a reading button, is very helpful. The Inspiration Guide I already said is a growth document, so as long as it hasn't already happened, I'll do it. I come to Mr Verheij's question about examining a second opinion. I've put that question in here now. He has already asked me whether there is an optional opinion from the Commission for the m.e.r. there is no gap for projects, where citizens can't go anywhere if they want to examine a second opinion. I indicated that I would look into it, and I did. I think it is very important, like you, that the quality of the data that governments use is well secured. As far as I am concerned, the quality must be guaranteed in advance. I prefer not to have a test afterwards, but to have quality, accessibility and security in advance. I intend to do so by laying down detailed rules for the quality assurance and provision of environmental documents or data in the DSO. For example, for measuring and calculating for the benefit of national rules, I propose a measurement and calculation requirement in the environmental regulation. At this point in the House of Representatives, two motions were adopted by Mr Veldman and Mr Çegerek. The motion in part No. 58 is about decentralised environmental values. Local authorities should make use of substantively validated and independent investigations. I will also include that in the introduction law. The motion in part No. 59 is about measurement and calculation requirements. On this point, too, I will make provision for the introduction of central rules if necessary. The Environment Act also ensures that large, complex projects of social interest can be independently investigated at the request of third parties for alternatives submitted during the exploration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u66	I have learned from the Read & Writing Foundation that this is not a B1 level. This may not have to be done in this house, but the Minister went a little too fast in terms of accessibility. There are 2.5 million low-lettered people in the Netherlands. I understand that it is sometimes very difficult for officials to make information accessible in such a way that these Dutch citizens understand what it is about. D66 had her election program retranslate to B1 level. We were shocked at how complicated that was and how long it took. I ask the Minister exactly how she intends to do that. The Inspiration Guide alone may not be enough to ensure accessibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u67	I indicated that I am willing to look at that again, as far as we are not already doing so. I think it's a little far-reaching to tell you what sites we're going to modify. I think it's good to start with the Inspiration Guide. Actually, it's about how you involve them. If you can discuss with each other how to achieve certain groups, then you also know what a useful tool would be. You can customize all the websites, but you and I don't look all day on websites either, actually you only do that when you need something. Often it is better to take other and smarter steps to reach certain groups, for example through their own information channels, which have already been set up. Once again, I am prepared to look at it, but I cannot say in advance what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u68	Mrs. Stienen? Oh, you're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u69	I would have stayed and answered Mr Verheij's question about an independent facility. Again, I think it is important to do justice to proposed alternatives. That fits in with a participatory society. That's why I want digital environment windows. They must have validated data that is accessible to all, not only to public authorities but also to citizens. Institutes, such as RIVM and so on, have to look at the data in order to validate them. Then you already have the second test. Following the Smaling motion, I will make provision in the Environment Decision for the competent authority to ensure that the necessary information for participation in the project procedure is available in an accessible manner. If the quality of the data is good, the main question is how it is used. This can be clarified at an early stage in the process of participation. I do not think it would be desirable to create a separate facility. If there is a facility that always has to recalculate everything and everyone else is going to do it, it can be extremely delaying. I would like to take away Mr Verheij's concern by ensuring that all the data at the front are reliable and validated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u70	That's clear. I was particularly concerned about accessibility. We just had a debate about people who are less literate. That is a care group, but also the people who are normally able to read and interpret the newspaper will find it difficult to project and apply the complex and often abstracted information that becomes available in the information houses to their own situation. A helpline is often useful. We know help lines in different ministries that support citizens. They can also help to validate information. They can not only improve accessibility, but also answer the question of whether this is the most up-to-date information available. My concern and question is how, in the very complex system that is the DSO, we can make it recognizable to citizens that they can ask for help there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u71	That is an important issue. In setting up the DSO, we need to look at how to make it as accessible as possible to citizens, and not just to governments, who may be slightly better at it. I want to arrange validation by ensuring that there are only figures that have been validated. That is the problem now. Now everyone has to have their own report done. You can hire a consulting firm for that, but others don't have access to that data. Actually, you don't have anything right now. Soon it'll all be in information houses. Some information is already very good and validated, but other information is still at its starting point. We have years to go before we can do this right. Mr Verheijen asks me to ensure that if we publish it later, it is also validated. We're definitely gonna do that. But it must also be understandable to citizens; I will look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u72	I will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u73	You will return to that in the second term, Mr Verheijen? That's fine. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u74	I would come back to Mr Flierman's question in the second term, but I will do so now. His question was about equivalence. The competent authority must be accountable for whether everyone who wanted to be involved is also involved. I will state in the letter of the Environment Decision that the competent authority must also address the aspect of equality in the obligation to state reasons for participation. Is everyone involved and are the interests well weighed? I come to the powers of the municipalities and the provinces. Then I come to the general questions, after which I will continue with the next decision on the environment. I think this was about the biggest discussion, although there are still a lot of points in the decision on the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u75	So we're not gonna make it to 6:30?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u76	I'm afraid it's gonna be a little late. The CDA asked about the council's advisory right in the environmental permit. I agree with the members of the CDA Group that the city council itself has sufficient resources under the Municipal Law to control the performance of tasks by the mayor's and aldermen's college. The city council can also request all information on its own initiative, including on licensing. However, from several sides, it has been called upon to give the city council a heavier position by means of a right of assent. With an advisory right, the proposed system is in between; it is a kind of interim solution. It's not a strange figure in the city law. He's there for other subjects, too. For example, under Article 169 of the Municipal Act, the College should first give the Board an opportunity to give an opinion before, for example, private agreements are concluded or before deciding on annual markets or ordinary market days. So it already exists in the organic system of the Commune Act. Hence my proposal to retain explicitly the right of advice contained in the draft environmental decision. Mr Flierman asked how we would avoid creating opaque regulations and endless procedures by giving municipalities more policy space. This question has also been frequently asked in the Lower House. The fear is that if I give more space, it will be filled at municipal or provincial level. I don't share that fear. With the new system there will be one environmental plan in which all the rules come together in one place. In the municipalities there will therefore be more uniformity because there is an environmental plan instead of many different zoning plans. This is also clearer for the citizen. There will be differences between municipalities, but these differences are already there and that does not really cause problems. Of course, the judge will have to get used to the new environmental plan and the possibilities for invitation planology. That is a different form, but it is part of the normal task of the administrative judge to check whether there has been a careful balance of interests. I'm confident that the judge is capable of doing that. The CDA asked if the primacy of the provinces should go further. Should the province's primacy clearly cover all authorisations and enforcement in a complex and risky environmental activity? The province is the competent authority for all permits at the location of the complex company, including permits for deviations in the environmental plan. For permits relating to water activities, the primacy lies with the water manager. For this purpose, the compulsory coordination system whereby the province is designated as the coordinating authority and the province is also the competent authority for all the general national rules applicable at the site. It is thus arranged that the province has an integral overview of the company's activities. This division of tasks and powers also connects to the current environmental law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u77	Much of what the Minister says reassures me, but I still have the next question. Does the province also see general rules of municipal policy in the locations where complex environmental activities take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u78	Yes. It is true that general rules can still apply on the basis of the environmental plan. Since the province is the competent authority for the deviation permit, it can also maintain if the company does not comply with the environmental plan. It is important to add that general rules apply under the Water Authority Regulation. The water manager is the competent authority for this. This is linked to the main rule of the Environment Act: decentralised, unless. Moreover, all complex companies fall within the mandatory remit of environmental services. GroenLinks and the ChristenUnion asked whether Rijkswaterstaat would be given binding advisory rights to indirect discharges. The environmental permits for indirect discharges are granted by municipalities and provinces. Water managers, Rijkswaterstaat and the water boards, have an advisory right under the current Wabo right to permit indirect discharges. Under the Wabo, they can only make that opinion binding when it comes to discharges that could jeopardise the functioning of the RWzi or the scope of the Water Framework Directive in relation to the objectives for surface water. However, for the majority of indirect discharges, the advice of the water manager is not binding. That is why the water managers have only advisory rights under the Environment Act. The recent assessment of the division of powers also shows that these opinions of water managers are generally well followed by the municipalities and provinces that grant those environmental permits for indirect discharges. So there is not really any reason to revise it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u79	I was aware of all this, but I am concerned about the exceptions which also have major financial consequences. I have reflected this in my contribution, but I have also asked the Minister to weigh two aspects. One concerns the major financial consequences. Is this worth the risk? The other concerns the question to the Minister whether the supervisory role could at least be strengthened. So I gave two directions for resolution, and I hope that the Minister will agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u80	If you revised the right of advice in such a way as to require approval, this would be a considerable burden increase in relation to the current law. This also applies to the four-week extension of authorisation procedures. This is not in line with the objectives of the Environment Act. This is without prejudice to the fact that there may be some error in practice, and there are problems with indirect discharges, or that there may be something more serious. But we are mainly talking about incidents or illegal discharges. You cannot solve these problems on the front with a right of advice or a licence, whether binding or not, because it often turns out to be illegal. Therefore, water boards can already request measures from the licence holder on the basis of the law in the event of a calamity, in order to prevent damage to rwzis and surface water. As regards the question of the monitoring task, the water managers have an advisory role and this advice is always taken on board. The VVD has asked about the role of environmental services in the implementation of the Environmental Act. Advice and support by the environmental services, for example in the context of drawing up an environmental plan or the environmental vision, always takes place on behalf of the municipality. In fact, therefore, the environmental service serves as a centre of expertise or technical execution service of the municipality. The municipality formulates the need for advice and makes local policy choices based on the information provided by the environmental service. The municipality thus remains the competent authority to take the final decision. That is why I do not see any risk that the environmental service will eventually become decision-making. The PvdA asked about the evaluation of environmental services. The evaluation is almost complete and the results and the cabinet response, aligned with the domes concerned, will be sent to both chambers before the summer recess. I move on to the Quality of Living Environment Decision (Bkl), which contains substantive standards for municipalities, provinces, water boards and the Empire. These substantive standards, which we have talked about a great deal, are of course important for achieving a national objective in the field of the physical environment and for meeting international obligations. I have the following blocks: equivalent level of protection and consideration space, health, sustainability, energy transition, air, water, landscape, nature and other questions about the Bkl. I believe that the Bkl contributes to better decision-making on the development of the physical environment by making a coherent approach. This approach leads to a reduction in research costs and a more integrated approach, but also to room for administrative consideration. The Chamber sometimes experiences this as a field of tension: does this mean that the economy wins or that the environment wins? Our idea is, of course, that both should win. A decision must be made simpler and better, but it must also lead to an equivalent or better living environment. Increasing the administrative balance is very important in order to be able to make a good decision locally. You cannot create national rules that lead to the best results in any situation. The Bkl offers the space to take into account those local conditions, for example by setting rules for smell, noise or vibration in the environmental plan. In the Ball, for example, you can offer space for customization to enable an innovative process. During the consultation, it was also found that a large number of parties welcomed great flexibility, on the one hand, and on the other hand, are concerned that companies operating above-the-clock will have to deal with a different playing field over and over again. There is also a fear that municipalities will be too flexible or too strict. It's just like which side of the line you're on. In practice, municipalities sometimes choose to offer more opportunities for new initiatives and sometimes to protect the living environment, depending on their ambitions in the local situation. That is what is happening now, because governments already have a great deal of discretion in the current rules. Think of the projects in the Crisis and Recovery Act, the Interim Urban and Environmental Act and the evaluation of the Activity Decision. In this context, it also appears that administrative bodies themselves handle the administrative balancing area wisely. Sometimes a municipality is stricter, sometimes more flexible, but there is always a search for a good balance between exploiting and protecting. I take this issue with me in the evaluation of the new system. In this context, it looks at what it may or may not take a particular direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u81	I understand the Minister when she says that there is a need for local consideration because there is a need for tailor-made work. I also understand that there is a local need for some diversity, but that does not mean that there is a need to deviate from the basic level of protection. It'll happen now. As far as I can see, the Act of Activities did not say that there could be a deviation from smell, vibration and noise below the basic level of protection, but that is now being made possible. Why do we go so far as to allow derogations from the basic level of protection? Is this not contrary to the value that the Minister places at the centre, namely an equivalent level of protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u82	An equivalent level of protection means that the level of protection of the living environment remains equivalent to the current level. A definition of the concept cannot be given because there is a different content in each situation. The rules in the AMvB contribute to that equivalent level of protection. The Bkl contains environmental values, instructional rules and assessment rules. I also refer to the general rules in the Ball and the Bbl. RIVM notes that an equivalent level of protection is possible in the new system. That was asked for in the first period. But local choices are a factor in this. We support that conclusion. The degree of protection, as it is now, is also determined by the choices made by local authorities. We see that municipalities handle the existing space prudently. The administrative balancing area is also not unlimited. It is always about the balance between protecting and exploiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u83	The point is that the Empire does not provide the basic level of protection as a framework for acting in it. Why is the scope for consideration at a point where we could rely on the basic level of protection so large? The Minister says that it cannot be done everywhere, but it is precisely when it comes to noise, smell and vibration that we can rely on national frameworks to ensure that the basic level of protection is guaranteed. Nevertheless, we are going to depart from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u84	I will come back to this, because the basic level of protection is laid down in the law, for example in the framework directive on water. When it comes to air quality, that level is included in directives. So I do not know whether we are different from the basic level of protection, but I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u85	I find this answer extremely difficult. In fact, the Minister says that everything is going to be fine, because the municipalities are doing their job well. I am assuming that too, but on the other hand, the tension within municipalities between all these different interests is palpable every day. I would like to draw attention to economic interests, environmental interests, health interests and business interests. That is why I believe that legislation and AMvBs should provide a clear framework within which to operate. That's what I'm missing in this law. There are incredibly many anomalies possible. The Minister himself says that an equivalent level of protection cannot even be defined. However, the RIVM indicates that this can be done. It should be, because that is the only way to assess whether that level of protection is being achieved. I challenge the Minister to at least outline that framework within which the administrative authorities can make their deliberations. This will also ensure that the level of protection is maintained on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u86	There are all kinds of levels that ensure that this equivalent level of protection can also be achieved. Take the Netherlands Nature Network. A result obligation is included in the Bkl as the lower limit for the protection of that Nature Network. The point is that matters such as quality and surface area of that Nature Network are preserved. That's just it. The only thing RIVM says is that you can achieve an equivalent level of protection, but that local choices are part of it. That is also the case at the moment, because municipalities have autonomy. They also have their own decision-making options. In the case of individual decisions, a different interpretation can be made. In total, however, we see that this equivalent level of protection is achieved through, among other things, the result obligations. So I also opt for result-oriented steering. For example, the Bkl states that any adverse effects on essential characteristics or values of the Nature Network must be compensated in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u87	I would like to mention other examples. Take air quality, smell, sound and vibration. In my view, these are matters where standards are stronger, so that more exceptions are possible. On the contrary, there will be more room for administrative consideration at local level. You can also see accumulation problems. I don't think there's enough guidance on norm filling. If I add that up, it seems to me that an equivalent level of protection is not guaranteed. I also read what RIVM says. That's different from what the minister's saying now. RIVM is critical precisely because the objectives are not clearly defined enough. That's why there's no test. All kinds of ambitions are so little concrete that they cannot be tested. That's my problem. Clear objectives must be set which can be assessed and within which local authorities will have to move in their consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u88	There are. We read the RIVM report differently. RIVM argues that an equivalent level of protection is possible, but that this is complex because the Empire is not about all municipal decisions. That's right, but that's the case now. The Bkl clearly indicates which exceptions are possible as a result of local administrative considerations and which are not. There are forms of temporary and permanent deviations, but these forms already exist. They are bundled, harmonised and simplified in AMvBs. There are a number of aspects where no exceptions are possible, for example for air quality. European rules on the standard of air quality have been adopted. For sound and smell of livestock farming standard values are included in the Bkl. There is the possibility to choose a different standard within a given bandwidth. In the Lower House we have often discussed smell. Suppose you have a cattle farm with the smell you need. You live on the property. Your house is excepted from not being allowed to sit in a particular scent circle because you're the one running the company. Then suppose you do your business over to your children. They're gonna live in the main house, and you're gonna live in the back house with your wife. Then that house couldn't be there at once because you'd be in the scent circle when you weren't company-bound. That's really weird. You spent your whole life in the scent circle because you ran the company. Then you retire, you move into the back house and then you shouldn't be in the scent circle at once. In this respect, municipalities are given more room to make a sensible decision about when they want to and when they don't. You can opt for a more flexible standard, but you can also opt for a stricter one. In the Lower House, but also here, all questions about the environment are not about economics. Why should all the arrows be directed at the economy in municipal councils at once and not at the environment? That would actually be crazy. In view of the democratic process, we will see that the environment and the stricter standard are likely to receive even more attention than an extension and relaxation. These are, for example, types of rules, such as the opening hours of a terrace or loading and unloading times at a supermarket. This space for municipalities to set their own rules helps to set rules that match the nature of the activity or the location. What you call exceptions, I see as customization. Weighing frameworks are really framed. For example, for sound, the inner value is a hard standard. Of course, such a balancing area is not entirely new either, because we already know such forms within the current law. That won't change by the Environment Act, but this will make it clearer what is and isn't allowed and where you can and can't deviate. I'll monitor exactly what's going to happen and which way the trade-offs that are going to take place are going. That is what I promised at the hearing in the House of Representatives. It is not so framed that it will lead to excesses, large exceptions or all kinds of filling. I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u89	However, I note that more exceptions are possible in a number of respects. You say that air quality cannot fall below it, but I read in your texts that there may indeed be serious reasons for making exceptions. That's how you see it across the board. My group is very concerned about what the effects will be. I do believe that monitoring is very crucial. Are you going to take zero measurements and clearly define what is being tested so that we can say later what the impact of this policy is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u90	It is indeed the case that the Bkl offers scope to deviate from the limit values in some cases, which is also described here, but then the municipality will have to motivate that there are significant economic or social interests that justify this. It must really be a matter of special cases, where, for example, the protection of one house is against, for example, business continuity. In the case of permanent derogations, it will be even more difficult to justify these derogations than in the case of a temporary derogation. I will clarify that in the explanatory memorandum if there are any further points. In the event of a derogation, the municipality must make a proper balance between protecting and exploiting the physical environment. It's about both of them every time. You can submit views on that. If the college doesn't make up for the trade-off, the city council can whistle back the college. If necessary, the city council can be flagged back by the judge. There are therefore many possibilities for objection to this derogation. It is precisely my concern that you cannot understand everything in advance in general rules. Sometimes you just need those exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u91	I have a quick question. The Minister speaks of major economic interests, but they are not defined. Can it explain the nature of these economic interests? Can it not simply be a financial interest, for example, that it is said, for practical reasons, that it will be far too expensive to take all kinds of additional measures to place livestock farming 100 metres away instead of 50 metres away, so that one can still deviate from that limit value for smell in order to be able to set up such livestock farming within those 50 metres? We cannot now in any way indicate exactly the economic importance of why one can deviate. Can the Minister clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u92	I said: in relation to important economic or social interests. Those are things you can't define in advance, because you don't know what you're going to run into. I believe that a high price for measures can never be a reason or a major interest. If you permanently cause a problem, a municipality must decide that it cannot be realized at that location. What's the issue with anomalies? In the municipality of Zaanstad, for example, they want to build an island with houses, but there are companies nearby. It is a pity that these houses cannot be built, but that cannot be because they fall just within the sound or smell circle of those companies. We know that this will be further adapted in the coming years. It can therefore be determined that these dwellings are to be realized. Then for 10 years the noise or smell rule may be deviated from and then it must be regulated. It could be that kind of business. Then a college for such a deviation, if it so wishes, must clearly state and motivate why it thinks that the social importance of building the houses is greater. With regard to economic interests, I have promised in the Lower House that we will explain it in accordance with the concept in the General Administrative Law. Then you have your definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u93	Maybe I didn't hear it right. I thought the Minister said that you should not deviate permanently from the limit values if there are major economic interests, but that this is temporary. Maybe she can come back to it in second term or maybe now. I'm very curious. I believe that the decision in the AMvB states that you may indeed deviate permanently in the case of major economic interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u94	Yes, but you mentioned an overpriced measure as an example. I have said that it is probably not heavy enough to be allowed to deviate permanently. If you have to take a measure that is necessary, I do not think that can be the reason. What I just mentioned, that one house you're protecting versus corporate continuity of an entire building, could be something to deviate from. Air quality is a hard standard, so there are no deviations possible. Deviations from the limit values can only be made for smell and vibration and only for major interests. That requires additional justification. The requirements for that justification have been added by the Cegerek motion to the Explanatory Memorandum. We've been asked how to prevent norm padding. That is a question from Mrs Vos, but it is also a question that is often raised. How do the municipalities deal with that? The AMvBs contribute in different ways to countering that norm filling. That starts with the general rules of the Empire in the Ball. The imposition of preventive measures and the application of the best available techniques is a brake on the filling of standards. This is how the problem is addressed at the source. In addition to this brake, the system of local authorities also provides a driving force for dealing with multiple burdensome activities in an area. In this way, high quality can be maintained and poor quality improved and quality can be actively managed in a dynamic area. This new system offers more possibilities than current law, i.e. the decentralised environmental values and space in instructional rules and customization rules. Ultimately, it is about the balance between protecting and exploiting. A municipality or province can choose motivated to use a heavier emphasis on within the limit of the Bkl. Through monitoring and evaluation, I will keep a finger on the wrist. Mrs Klip also explicitly asked for monitoring to be properly organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u95	I would like to give two examples to the Minister. One concerns the minister himself. Of course, you also do norm filling when you say: here you can drive 130 km/h, because the air has now become cleaner, so I can add a little extra air pollution. The same is happening at a more local and regional level, for example in intensive livestock farming and its expansion. It is also quickly said: air scrubbers care about air pollution, so there can be a few more animals in this stable. It's a very well-known mechanism that you see at all levels. My question is therefore: is it not necessary to send here with a more stringent instructional rule, so that a cleaner technique for the inhabitants and the environment will actually profit and they will get cleaner air?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u96	We're doing As a result of speeding up, you're gonna emit a little more. At the same time, we know that we are less and less ejecting every year and that cars are getting cleaner, even if they are speeding up. We do not want to fill the standard up to 40 micrograms, to take an example, but we are going to sit a bit underneath it. I think we're at 38 or 37 micrograms as maximum. So you're already releasing some of the space. At the same time, you can see that the amount of emissions from cars is falling very much. You are encouraging new technologies, but at the same time we also want farms to be able to expand and the port of Rotterdam and other ports to function properly. There are always activities that require space, but we set a hard limit and try to keep with new technologies all the desires that exist within that space and preferably below it. So it's not: we can do up to 40 micrograms, let's just take that space. No, we encourage clean technology. We're gonna sit under it a little bit. But we also use space, because there is also a desire to grow, to grow businesses, to drive faster and to expand farms. It's always a combination of both interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u97	Finally, Mrs Vos, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u98	But how is the Minister going to get us into a situation where things are going to get cleaner and cleaner? I'm worried about that. Perhaps we will be able to meet even stricter standards, which are sometimes really necessary for people's health.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u99	Eventually, in a democratic process, you have to decide with each other when to set the next step for the next standard. It's not for nothing that you set a standard with each other. At European level, we have agreed on a standard with each other. I'll come back to that later. Everyone's acting on that now. This applies to emissions of nitrogen and particulate matter. New standards have just been created within the framework of the PAS. That is a very different area, not my policy area, but also this kind of thing. There may be a CO standard in the future. Then you get boundaries again with the question of who is to meet what and how. When you say that every time you have an improvement, you can't use it, you don't stimulate anyone to move to new technologies or improvements. The moment you make all the space you make available immediately, you can never go further down. You might want it to get tighter. The Secretary of State has given his opinion on this matter. We are now going to go to target values to look at whether we are going to set stricter standards at a later date. You'll all have to say that you agree on that. Furthermore, you must continue to stress that new technologies must lead to fewer emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u100	I think I'll take it from Mrs. Fox. Actually, my nugget breaks. I hear the Minister sweeping different cases in one heap. On the one hand, she says: you have to make activity possible. I get that. It is also about employment and so on. But the minister says that people want to drive faster too. That's what I've been talking about in my contribution. People love to step deep into the accelerator, but you only arrive at your destination a minute and a half earlier. I think it's a pretty useless exercise to make that possible. The Minister then says: we can do it, because car traffic is getting cleaner and cleaner. But I still believe that the vast majority of car traffic is quite polluting. The Minister says we're going to be at 38 micrograms. The World Health Organisation recommends 20 micrograms. In my opinion, this minister can go down in history as the one who goes down further, further, with the number of micrograms and thus gives more and more healthy air to our Dutch. Instead, I can just hear her fill it up to 38 micrograms. I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u101	Mrs Meijer says that no one benefits from faster driving, but that has just been a political choice. Just as it is a choice to grow our ports or our farms. These are political choices we make with each other to make it possible to drive faster. It's not because driving faster is such a nice hobby, but also because we just have bigger roads and faster cars. It is also appropriate to what is happening socially. Almost every country in Europe is at 130 or more. You shouldn't do that if it's not possible in terms of the environment, safety or noise. So we only do it where possible, while remaining within the rules we have agreed on. Mrs Meijer says: it would be nice if we were to move from the rule we have agreed on to a stricter rule. I think that's a fine discussion, which you see coming up in the Lower House under the skin, but it doesn't belong to the treatment of the Environment Act. The Environment Act is a reform of the system. If you want to change substantive standards, then it's a new policy that you have to do neatly through the Lower House. That is where the discussion can take place in the substantive committee. Then we can meet and change the standard. I believe that Secretary of State Dijksma recently sent letters to the House of Representatives: what are we doing and what are we not doing with the standards of the World Health Organisation? The fact that Mrs Meijer considers this important and strives for it is her right. Different parties may think differently about this, but that does not fit in with this discussion. I'm not going into history here to change the norm in this law. I think that this should simply be a proper process for the Second and First Chambers, especially in relation to Europe, because it is an agreement that we have made at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u102	Mrs Meijer, one more time on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u103	Last time, Mr. Chairman. The minister says it's a political choice. This Chamber and the House of Representatives are in favour of making decisions which we are convinced are good for our inhabitants. I cannot imagine that it would be good for our citizens to sit just below a dangerous limit for air pollution. It is good for our inhabitants to go down as far as possible. I prefer to make such political choices. The minister said that the Netherlands was about the only country in Europe that was less than 130 km/h. The Netherlands, as one of the few, had the exception to be allowed to cross. We're just under that. I'm gonna need that nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u104	For nitrogen and particulate matter, the problem is solved on almost all highways. There are still a few points where there is an excess, but the amount of emissions has fallen dramatically over the last period. The extra contribution of driving faster has actually been nullified. That's another discussion, but I can show you some wonderful tables about it. This is without prejudice to the fact that you can discuss with each other how those 40 micrograms were ever produced and why one party says that it is safe and the other party says that we need to sit a lot lower. I think that is a wonderful debate, a beautiful political debate in which you can go both ways. But that must be done in a democratic process. If you want to change it, you have to decide it in a European context. If Europe says no, then you can sit lower on your own nationally, but a discussion about that really belongs in the first instance in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u105	I understand that the Minister says that she is not going to make a new policy in this debate, but we are talking about how these four AMvBs can contribute to a balance between protecting and exploiting the living environment. My group has also asked a number of questions about this. I hope the Minister will answer that question. Following on from the concerns of colleagues Vos and Meijer, I would like to remind the Minister of an article in De Groene Amsterdammer of 16 May: Gambling with the world. It looks very critically at the way in which the Dutch industry still emits as many greenhouse gases as ten years ago. That's from figures from the European Environment Agency. I understand very well that the Minister says that there is order, but I will stick to my group's question as to how today we can look at how the process and the AMvBs can contribute to climate proof legislation. We do not wish to postpone this until the introduction in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u106	That is not necessary, because you can have the political debate much sooner, whether it is at the formation table, depending on who is sitting at that table, or through the House of Representatives at an appropriate time in the committee. You wonder what this law can do to help. As far as I am concerned, this law does much more for the environment than the legislation we have so far. The Environment Act says: you have to make a good balance between protecting and exploiting. In order to protect health and other values, we have included in the Decision quality living environment and the Decision activities living environment a large number of rules. They go beyond what we had before. These are different instruments, instructional rules, environmental values, assessment rules. It's really hard rules to protect health and other values. It is sometimes said 'everything of value is defenseless' but this is much more so now, also because we have an integrated approach. The first time I was here, I said: we used to make a route decision and we thought halfway through: oh, there is also nature involved. Nowadays you have to do all that in front. You're already looking at how to make sure that one and the other is made possible and that you improve both points. You want to leave a better situation. That's what we want. I am the minister who introduced the 130 km/h, but I am also the minister who makes sure that Space for the River leaves a better area. It is always a balance between economic activities and environmental qualities. The strength of this system is precisely that this integral balance can be made much better possible than in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u107	I'm interrupting, Minister. In any case, I would like to suspend at 7 p.m. wherever you are in answering Members' questions. I'd like to suspend dinner from 7:00 to 8:00 anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u108	That's in ten minutes. So I'll do my best for the next ten minutes. Mrs Teunissen asked why the guarantees of the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Interim Act did not incorporate environmental approaches. The scope provided by the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Interim Act has been incorporated into the new system, but the complex and partly procedural safeguards do not return. This is in line with the improvement of the system review, in particular with the acceleration and improvement of decision-making. But that doesn't mean there are no guarantees. That is, of course, just as important to us. However, we have framed the scope for consideration in a different way. For example, derogations may be made from the limit values for vibrations, where important economic interests or important other social interests justify it. This is comparable to the application criterion in the Interim Act. It's a different description, but the content is similar. You have to motivate this extensively and the municipality must also make a proper balance between protecting and exploiting the physical environment in case of a deviation. As I said, the city council and the judge still have a role to play, if necessary. Mrs Teunissen also asked whether increasing that administrative balance would lead to a deterioration in legal protection. Will there be endless legal proceedings? The use of the administrative balancing area may lead to a different decision being taken by the administrative body than the interested parties would have liked to see. Such a difference of opinion can then be brought before the court. Actually, that's no different than it is now. The application of the rules that allow for consideration may also lead to a reduction in procedures. Legally speaking, it is better to refer to the specific situation. For example, the administrative balancing area allows a municipality in the environmental plan to take better account of the impact on landowners. The assessment of disputes will be different when applying open standards than when applying concrete rules. The judge will check whether there has been a careful balance of interests. However, this does not mean that procedures take longer. Even now, there are many standards with an open character. For example, the permit to deviate from a zoning plan, which can be granted if good land-use planning is complied with. That's it for the consideration room. I will use the next eight minutes to move on to the subject of health and sustainability. Mrs Vos wondered whether health and sustainable development were sufficiently secured or operationalised in the AMvBs. Our ambitions will be included in the environmental vision. For the Empire, the provinces and the municipalities, it is mandatory to draw up such an environmental vision. It should also take into account environmental principles, which also aim to protect health. A healthy, sustainable and attractive living and working environment is important for citizens, but also for businesses. It is also an important location factor for companies. General rules, licensing obligations and instruction rules set limits on activities that can have a clear health impact. Environmental aspects, such as ambient values for air and water quality and noise standards, are limited. Those rules constitute the framework conditions within which the health assessment takes place. They were also asked whether they would be interchangeable. Air quality and noise are both subject to minimum standards. That has to be met. For situations under the standards for air and noise, a municipality can adopt rules or measures itself. It will then consider the subject for which additional protection is needed and for which subject not. A municipality can also choose to deliver customization. It has also been asked why there is a great deal of discretion as to whether there is cumulation. Am I willing to include an instructional rule to address cumulation? Is there a basic level of protection for cumulation? The Bkl contains an instruction rule for the municipalities to consider the accumulation of smell, noise and vibrations in the environmental plan. But it is indeed up to the municipalities to decide in which case they will take action. For example, they can set stricter values to limit the cumulative effect, or they can make use of customization options. The Bkl does not impose any further substantive requirements; for this the variation in situations is too large. The municipality can best come up with a suitable approach. Moreover, there is no basic quantitative level of protection against cumulation under the current law. That would therefore be a new policy and a strengthening of the level of protection. However, in municipalities in the agglomerations, where noise accumulation is quite common, there are also five-yearly action plans. In doing so, they are considering measures to prevent cumulation, for example. A system for the cumulation of noise will be included in the Supplementary Decision sound in order to implement the adopted Samsom motion. That supplementary decision will also be submitted to this Chamber. Then I'll get to the energy transition. I, too, recognise the great importance of a transition to a low carbon society. In the energy agreement and the climate agreement, we agreed on the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy. We need to take a big step forward in the coming years. This also means greater use of techniques such as windmills, heat-cold storage, solar panels, geothermal heat and bio-fermentation. We will have to work on an infrastructure for transport and energy storage. That is a huge change, and it requires good cooperation with all the parties that are now active in it. So that's not just the government. Those windmills must also be disposed of somewhere and the solar panels and the heat-cold storage must also be arranged with the municipalities and the provinces. The energy transition requires rules that also give room for that. In my opinion, the Environment Act offers a well-equipped toolbox for this. The Environment Act can give more guidance to the energy transition than the legislation as we know it now. Mrs Vos asked for rules on the phasing-out of natural gas. The AMvBs create space for natural gas-free neighbourhoods. With this Bbl the current connection obligation for building owners on the gas network expires. That connection obligation is still included in the building decision. The Bbl creates room for municipalities to include area-oriented customization in the environmental plan for connection obligations for building owners on the gas grid, electricity grid and heat grid. This also makes the environmental plan the municipal energy and heat plan. Work is now under way on the further development of the Energy Agenda presented by the cabinet in 2016. In this context, it will be considered whether and, if so, how the present AMvBs should be adapted in view of the desired energy transition. I'm assuming that's gonna get through to him again as soon as that's done. This is, of course, a living building. In this context, it is also necessary to consider whether there should be instructional rules of the Empire for decentralised energy targets to be achieved. For example, should an environmental value for CO be established? The question is what is the best way to achieve this. But once a decision has been taken in the Chamber, that can be included in the AMvBs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u109	I have a question. One of the objectives of this whole legislation is to promote sustainable development. You want to respond better to all societal developments. Then I am surprised that you are not already using this moment, when we are discussing this regulation, to introduce some rules of instruction. They can already mandate the achievement of certain energy saving and renewable energy targets, and also, for example, require that at least the energy and energy objectives in a municipality should be clarified and included in such a local environmental plan. I think there's a lot more to send than you're doing right now. And we're running out of time. Why don't you take that chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u110	Actually, I was just trying to make it clear that I do. The AMvBs include, for example, the connection obligation to the gas grid and the electricity grid and the heat grid. This also makes it a kind of municipal energy and heat plan. The aim of this whole system is to look more fully at the environment and the environment and thus to be able to steer much more easily towards higher ambitions. If you have to do it all through different laws, you might do something in one place that will destroy something else in another place. It is only on its content that your question is, I understand, in fact: why I do not immediately put it into substance ambitiously, I say that we should not do so now in the system debate, however nice it would be to include everything directly here. We really need to do that through the regular democratic process.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. If the Chamber really wants those ambitions to be higher, then this can be included quite quickly, especially because it is in the form of an AMvB, which allows adjustments to be made faster than in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u111	Finally, Mrs Vos, on this point, because then I shall suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u112	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I find it strange that the Minister does set ambitions. Health, sustainable development: she wants all kinds of things, but such an ambition should be realized in certain goals that you want to achieve? I also think it is not enough for her to say: I am giving space, municipalities will be able to opt for all kinds of things and they will no longer have to build on natural gas. The main point is that municipalities should choose! We are constantly reading in the newspapers that things are not fast enough. We're still stuck with that natural gas for a while. There is still plenty of new construction on natural gas. We're just gonna have to stop doing that. I believe that now is the time for the Minister to say: I have to steer on that, I have ambitions and I turn them into goals, and now I am going to set up this law in such a way that those ambitions are really being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u113	In the view of the environment, I will describe the ambitions, because that is the vision of the Empire. That's what the municipalities do in their environmental plan. This is the system discussion. How are we gonna put all these interests together in a minute? How do you shape that? How do we ensure that every decision also has an equal role in improving the living environment? The content will come at a rich level. That's what happens in the environment vision. In that we are going to say: this is our ambition with regard to the energy transition, this is our ambition with regard to mobility in the future or in other areas, with regard to water. The same applies to the provinces and municipalities. The municipalities do so in their environmental plan. So here we are talking about the system. The explicit content comes through what we now establish in the system: making environmental plans and making environmental visions. That's where it can all land.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u114	I'm suspending the debate for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u115	Mr. Chairman. We ended the discussion on the WHO and the advice of the Health Council. In response, I indicated how I feel about substantive discussion versus system discussion. It is important to note that the Health Council will deliver its opinion at the end of 2017. In my view, that is a good time for the House of Representatives and then for the First Chamber to discuss what one wants or does not want to do with WTO standards. The PvdA has asked if I am willing to take an initial direction...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u116	Sorry, we were not quite ready for the start of the debate. The Minister is now referring to another time when she says she wants to discuss WTO standards, at least that is how I understand her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u117	As far as I am concerned, the debate on whether or not to include the WHO standard in this law is part of this system discussion. I fully understand Mrs Vos' ambition and I know it, but that discussion is really about new policies. I am very outgoing at the moment and therefore believe that this discussion does not belong here at the moment. If Mrs Vos is wondering when this discussion will come back, I can tell her that at the end of 2017 the Health Council opinion will be offered to the House of Representatives. That seems to me to be an excellent moment when you could have such a discussion very quickly. I try to think a little bit with the parties who want something on the substance. Am I prepared to take on an initial role in managing air quality? For as many subjects as possible, we assume the primary role of the decentralised administration. This is also in line with the principle of subsidiarity. We naturally hold system responsibility, let us call it that, for the proper implementation of European obligations. For example, thanks to the Dutch commitment during our presidency of the EU, we have also revised the so-called NEC Directive, which further reduces emissions of pollutants within Europe. As a result, the number of premature deaths due to air pollution should be almost halved by 2030. As far as specific sites are concerned, where local sources contribute relatively much to exceedances, such as local air quality, municipalities are best placed to prevent this. We do take a directing role through national monitoring, by making European agreements, by drawing up a national air quality plan, together with those involved, and also by initiating administrative agreements with municipalities, for example, on the proper implementation of the whole system. So, yes, we play that directing role on our own, without taking over the functions of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u118	Thank you very much for that answer. What I found in the written reply was that the Empire says, for example, on an issue such as air quality and nature: under the decentralised system, we have made agreements with provinces on nature policy; there is a shortage, so it is up to the provinces to take action. I now hear the Minister say about air quality: no, we are going to take action on this ourselves, given the NEC agreements that need to be completed in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u119	Of course, I'm not very deeply involved in the nature debate. For that, you must be with Secretary of State Van Dam. However, I also believe that we have European obligations in the field of nature, that we have agreed with the provinces that they play a directing role in this, because they can do so better, but that ultimately the responsibility and obligation to comply with what you have to do lies at national level and that State Secretary Van Dam also plays a leading role in this. The same applies to the Water Framework Directive, let me take an example of my own field. I'm responsible for that. If I don't do it right, Europe will eventually send me a very high bill. So I have to make sure that there are land plans for the whole of the Netherlands, but then I ask the RBOs to give some thought to this. I am also asking other parties who are best placed to do so at that local or regional level. It is always a combination, and ultimately, depending on the agreements you have made, you have the national responsibility. This applies to European agreements. Europe will not call Brabant to account if something goes wrong. No, the Netherlands will be called to account if something goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u120	In addition to Mr Verheij's question: in the written answer during our second round of questions, I really got a different impression of nature, for example. In the answers you were quite clear: the provinces are really about the level of protection in terms of nature and how we are going to achieve it. The provinces are going to take the initiative to ensure that we meet the objectives of Natura 2000. That's what it said in the answer. I taste very strongly that the provinces have the lead and that the Empire does follow. Now I hear you say that the Empire also has a directing role. I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u121	Again: nature is not the area on which I was most deeply introduced. But let me take the windmills as a new example. At some point we have said: we must have so much megawatts of energy from wind, and we would like to make agreements with the provinces about where those windmills come from. We set a maximum and therefore have a directing role. We tell the provinces that they are free to see where they are going to place the mills. But if the provinces don't place them, we'll identify the locations. So you lay down responsibilities where they can best be fulfilled. But when you have a national responsibility, for example, because it is a national or European interest, you are also the one who ultimately stands at the bar and gives a central direction. There are also issues where this is not the case and which we say are entirely at provincial or municipal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u122	So, if I understand you correctly, you say, in the end, if necessary, the Empire will take the direction to ensure that certain goals are achieved. As far as nature is concerned, as far as the deficits we have so far are concerned, there is still a great deal to be done. At least there is no such task when it comes to achieving the Natura 2000 targets. In the end, however, this should be done if it is not to be achieved in good time. That's how I understand you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u123	It depends a little on what you define as a national interest. I don't know about it, but in relation to Natura 2000, I think there are also agreements on what a nature network should look like. But take the landscapes, for example. At the SVIR we said that this should no longer be a national interest but a provincial interest. After all, the provinces are much better at dealing with these landscapes than we are at dealing with them. That's what political discussion is about. In fact, I expect some people to say: should this not be a national interest again? The moment it becomes a national interest again, you get a different steering model. So it depends on the environmental vision in this case, and on the municipalities of the environmental plan, which at that time is leading to give direction to it. That also depends a little on your worldview, and that's different. GroenLinks has also asked why the programme obligation for air quality lies with municipalities, while this problem transcends the municipalities; a matter that is somewhat related to the above. Any exceedances of ambient air quality values are expected to occur only locally. The choice to leave that responsibility with municipalities then reflects the principle of subsidiarity. Municipalities are also well able to take measures to eliminate local overruns. In the event of a threat of excess for particulate matter or nitrogen dioxide, these will often be locations where local sources, such as livestock farming or road traffic, contribute relatively much to concentrations. That's what we see in urban concentrations. Measures have now been taken around the ring roads, so that is no longer the threat. For example, it is internal road traffic that causes the problems. A national programme such as the NSL doesn't really fit that local problem anymore. The programming obligation for municipalities does not mean that all responsibilities are placed with the municipalities, because eventually there are also times when you discuss it together. For example, if the bottlenecks in the approach to air quality are cross-border, there is a joint responsibility of Rijk, provinces and municipalities alongside citizens and businesses. In order to anchor this unity, the cabinet intends to make administrative arrangements with municipalities and provinces. They have already been launched as a successor to the NSL programme. There are other programmes, such as the PAS, where we say that they really need to be coordinated at a rich level. The NSL was a problem; that is now almost completely solved. PAS is a problem now. Soon CO might be a new steering model again. Each time it depends a little on where the problem is and what is the most logical layer to indicate control. The question about these measures was even more specific. Mrs Meijer has asked about the 130 km/h. I think I have said enough about this, but it is also stated here that the analysis of RIVM also shows that at 84% of the key points examined along the sections of the road, the concentration of nitrogen dioxide in 2016 with the increase in speed is even lower than in 2015. D66 has asked what I will do to ensure that municipalities cooperate at regional level on cross-border issues. That makes sense. Sometimes it's not entirely national, but it's not entirely local either. Then where is it? We intend to make agreements on this with municipalities and provinces, prior to the entry into force of the Environment Act. We have a programme that is active in shaping the implementation of the system. The RUDs will also have an important role to play in this. This also applies to the aspects that are cross-municipalities. The Animal Party, I see Mrs Teunissen on my right instead of on my left; that is also funny why the scope for consideration can be made so large that the basic level of protection can be undermined. I'd like to come back to that. For air and sound we know hard limits. For air, the basic levels of protection are European limit values; for noise, they are indoor values. However, for the vibration and smell of livestock farming and purification technical works, it is possible to deviate from the limit values. This can only be done if a major economic or social interest justifies it. This is now also possible under the Interim Urban and Environmental Act, which also sets out how to derogate from the activity decision. These possibilities are harmonised in the new system, but they are the same as they are today. It is therefore not a deterioration compared to the previous situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u124	One very brief interruption, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u125	You refer to the Interim City and Environment Act, rather the Crisis and Recovery Act. In my opinion, there is a real difference that exceptions are now limited to a maximum duration and that the Environment Act will not always be the case. In that it can also take forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u126	According to the Environment Act, you have to eventually motivate why you're different. This must also be done very firmly; it can only be done with serious economic and social interests. If a college does that, then the city council is still talking about it. The judge can still rule on it. So you have to have a really good story if you're gonna be able to deviate from it. So it's not like we opened the door. But we say at the same time: you can't invent everything in advance. There may well be a very good reason for making such a deviation possible. I will come back to the subject of nature; I have just received a cheating note from colleagues who are naturally much better informed. The Empire deals with the level of protection of nature and also imposes results obligations. The provinces have the space to fill that out. Then I come to water, my favorite subject. Now I only have one or two leaves on it; one even. It's also Mrs Bikker's favorite subject, I know. First of all, I will discuss this from the Quality of Living Environment Decision; later we will come to the standards in the law. The Animal Party is asking if I am prepared to include safeguards in the regulations for incidents of discharges, such as those of cranium. In the Ball we regulated discharges from environmentally damaging industries. That's what we do with environmental permits and general rules. The permit and, as a general rule, the level of best available techniques shall be prescribed. For substances of very high concern, the "continuous improvement approach" method applies. Companies must therefore continue to look for ways of reducing the use of the substances. These are the safeguards that we have included for the protection of surface water from which drinking water is extracted from incidental discharges such as those from coking plants. From the discussion we had last year, I also know that, when a substance is new, it is sometimes difficult to determine what you would like to allow. What is a level at which it is dangerous and what is not? That is why we always take a temporary standard first and then ask RIVM to find out as soon as possible what the health effects are. Then we can adopt the norm so that we can maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u127	Let me ask you a very enlightening question. We have something like the precautionary principle, so we don't allow substances if we don't know if they are indeed dangerous and are a threat to our drinking water?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u128	Actually, there are new substances coming into our drinking water all the time. They're in everything, like medicine and makeup. Then you'll find out. Then you have to find out if it is a substance that really has an effect on health. You can't ban every discharge in advance because you don't know what's inside. You need to see if it has an effect on health. Since we don't know that, we first take some kind of temporary norm. We keep it as small as possible, so as little discharge as possible. Then we ask RIVM to advise on what the standard really should be and what the health effect is. Sometimes it's not there. Then it can just be discharged. Sometimes it's there. Then we must set a strict standard on that so that we can also maintain it. We have the same interest as the drinking water companies and the water boards. We just want to have as clean water as possible, so as little discharge as possible. However, you cannot prevent anything and everything from being discharged. So it is mainly about how we ensure that we have a method that is final as soon as possible. Then I come to landscape and nature. The CDA asks whether the protection of the Dutch Nature Network in the Netherlands has been increased in relation to that in the Barro. This question has also been asked by others, for example by the Christian Union. The protection of the Dutch Nature Network under the Barro is continued under the Environment Act. We've made adjustments. That's what you always get when you start harmonizing. Following a report by the General Court of Auditors on nature compensation, we also took into account the Van Veldhoven motion, which calls on the government to ensure that high-quality compensation is guaranteed. In the Bkl, we also decided that any adverse effects on the essential characteristics or values of the Nature Network should be compensated in good time. In addition, the Bkl contains a result obligation as a lower limit for the protection of the Nature Network, i.e. the quality, the area and its consistency must be preserved. It is up to the provinces to work out the protection and compensation obligation with rules in the environmental regulation. Unlike LTO Netherlands, I believe that he has said something about it to the Chamber of Commerce, not that the compensation nature must have been realized prior to an intervention. However, it follows from the Bkl that the imposition of the compensatory measures must be sufficiently secure when deciding on an activity with adverse consequences for the Nature Network. This means, among other things, that the compensation nature must be relimited in good time, for example if the diversion of a dike requires a temporary intervention in the Nature Network and a deterioration of the habitat of a species takes place. In this case, the plan to reverse the dike should also ensure that a comparable habitat remains available. Otherwise, the chance is that they are extinct in the meantime, even if it was temporary. By its very nature, I think it may take some time before the compensatory nature is again equally present. I will clarify that point in the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u129	So the Minister does say that there is no tightening up? I am thinking of the point made in the further report. Now there is talk that significant decline must be avoided and I read that in the future it is about preventing any deterioration at all. That is, of course, a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u130	There's a difference. So it is not that it has to be realized in advance, before you are allowed to undertake the activity. I also think it is important, however, that an attack on nature's work is simply well protected. A motion for a resolution has been passed in the Lower House, which calls for high-quality compensation. It is therefore not the case that it must already be fully realised, but it must be sufficiently secured when deciding on an activity. So you can't say: well, that'll be fine in the future. In response to a question from the CDA, I have already mentioned the example of a reverse charge of a dike. So you can't say: I push him, the habitat is temporarily gone, but that doesn't matter because after that there will be another habitat. After all, it may well be that those birds never come back. So it is not so much that the rule needs to be changed. However, I believe that my explanation of this point in the note needs to be adjusted and I will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u131	Obviously. However, during this debate, the Minister has repeatedly stressed that we are talking here about a revision of the system and that we are not going to work on the substantive standards and the like. It's a policy-neutral transposition. I note that this is simply a matter of tightening up the substance. This is in fact contrary to the principles which the Minister laid down in this Chamber in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u132	I have tried to avoid that as much as possible, including in the House of Representatives. Sometimes, however, you still get a motion on your pants that allows a substantive change to take place. We tried to keep it as small as possible, so no major business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u133	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It's clear. The concern I raised was that the further reply to this Chamber gave the impression that the rules would be even more stringent. I understand that this is not the intention and that the Minister will ensure that this misunderstanding is eliminated in the further explanatory statement. I'm happy with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u134	It has not been tightened further than on the occasion of the motion. There's a tightening up in it, but it's not as bad as perceived by the outside world. However, if you compensate, it must be a serious compensation. Actually, I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u135	The Minister doesn't hear me fighting that either. I agree. I was only concerned that if there was a misunderstanding because there was a false impression in the further reply, it should be corrected. I think this is done through the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u136	We will explain this in more detail. The CDA has asked why landscape in the Bkl is not mentioned as a matter to be defended by the provinces. Landscape policy is one of the autonomous tasks of the provinces. That is what the Empire and the provinces agreed in the negotiating agreement. Decentralisation nature and landscape are values that need to be involved in policy development. This is also evident from the fact that landscape is explicitly mentioned in article 1.2 of the Environment Act as part of the physical habitat. Against this background, it is not appropriate to include an explicit instruction rule about landscape in the Bkl. It is also important that not all aspects of the physical environment are subject to instructional rules. So that doesn't just play with landscape. Above all, we have established rules of instruction as a continuation of previous policy choices or, if necessary, under European law or international law. There are also other aspects on which no rules of instruction have been laid down. Of course, it's always dangerous when I tell you that. For example, this does not apply to the appearance of buildings or infrastructure management. Mrs Vos also asks whether the provinces should not take into account the importance of landscape in their policies. That's just their autonomous task, so they always have to. How is it ensured that the lower limit of Nature Network Netherlands is met if the result of compensation is not certain? That is a question from Mrs Teunissen. The rules of instruction govern the level of protection that provinces must ensure in their regulations. The main point is that damage to the Nature Network must be avoided and compensation for it is the exception. Provinces must include in the environmental regulation the conditions for adequate compensation. The CSF provides the framework for this. In admitting the activity within the Nature Network, conditions will have to ensure that the result of the compensation is actually achieved. This can be done, for example, by imposing additional measures if the result is disappointing. The competent authority for the activity, usually the municipality, will have to ensure compliance with the conditions. Mrs Teunissen asks how I can guarantee that natural values will be equivalent in the long term when each province will regulate its own protection. Provinces already have the possibility of creating protection of the Nature Network within the rules drawn up for this purpose. This is also in line with the idea of decentralization. The Empire sets the framework and provinces must carry out their tasks within the frameworks. This also fits in with the role of the provinces as regional directors of nature. I expect them to do so with an eye for each other's task. However, the Empire retains the system responsibility. We monitor whether the goals for protecting the values in the Nature Network are met. In the 2016 Natural Network Progress Report, provinces will provide more insight into the actions they are taking to gain more control over the quality of nature. Mrs Vos asks what possibilities I have if the province is negligent in protecting the Dutch Nature Network. Self-responsibility is paramount. We are confident that the local authorities will be able to bear that responsibility. Provinces report annually to the PBL on the progress of the Nature Network. The PBL shall carry out an evaluation every three years. The Chambers will also be informed about this. The results are agreed with the provinces. If a province fails to fulfil its legal function or competence, then we can appeal to the province. We can use the tools of inter-administrative supervision. It is then a question of destroying or suspending decisions and placement in the event of job neglect. That's all settled in the Province Act. The Environment Act also provides for an instructional power. The complete transposition of the Nature Protection Act into the new system takes place with the Supplementary Act and the Supplementary Act nature. This is already anticipated in Article 4.4 of the BEPG, because the "rural management plan" instrument is already part of the new system. I will now turn to the other questions on the BKL. Then I can move on to the Decision Activities Environment, the Ball. It's gonna be real ball here in the First Chamber! GroenLinks asked me about the protection zones and the area files and why there are no protection zones for surface water abstractions for drinking water. In the case of surface water, protection zones may be included, both for surface water itself and for the neighbouring country. Whether or not we do, we arrange for the area files for drinking water extractions. I know that this discussion is very topical. The parties involved in this process are water managers, provinces and municipalities, with their instruments, have sufficient control to ensure that this is done properly. For this reason, I have seen no reason to introduce new rules for the protection zones into the Community budget. I know they're working on it right now. I think that's going perfectly well. They're giving me a feedback on that in the Water Steering Group. Why are the area files not included in the Quality of Living Environment Decision, asked Mrs Vos. Field files for drinking water facilities are administratively agreed tools for achieving targets. We have ensured that the objectives of the Water Framework Directive must be met. The inclusion of the area files in the Bkl leads to unnecessary jurisdiction. They also identify problems and risks for drinking water production. In order to ensure the implementation of the measures in the area files, you can then include them in the water programmes. So there's no need to take them apart again. Mrs Vos asked how I can ensure that there is sufficient funding for good quality monitoring on essential elements. The rules on monitoring shall be based on obligations laid down in the EU Directives and international obligations. It is not foreseen that additional resources are needed for monitoring obligations. How will structural monitoring take place, asked Mrs Klip. The law provides for periodic scientific research on the development of the quality of parts of the physical environment. That task was assigned to the Planning Bureau. Consideration is being given to the exact content of the evaluation. GroenLinks asked: who checks whether the initiators are doing their job properly, whether it is of sufficient quality? If monitoring is made mandatory in the permit, the licence holder shall be required. That's usually the city. If monitoring is made mandatory in general rules, it is the competent authority. That too is usually the municipality. Are temporary buildings and locations protected in the AMvBs? I can reassure Mrs Teunissen on that point. On this point, the House of Representatives has the Cegerek motion (33118, no. 74) adopted. I appreciated that motion as a policy support. So the motion is being carried out. In the case of temporary buildings and locations, municipalities must also take account of smell, noise and vibration and ensure an acceptable level thereof. We sometimes accept higher noise levels in temporary buildings than in permanent buildings, for example temporary accommodation of students or temporary school in an office building. This is then made possible, but it still needs to be taken into account, and if one deviates one must also describe why one deviates. The SP has also requested temporary buildings and locations and has asked whether ten years of noise standards are not too non-binding. The House of Representatives has adopted the Cegerek motion on this point. The motion will also be carried out. This means that various things such as sound, smell and vibrations will be taken into account. There are no loud noise standards for temporary buildings. I am not in favour of that either, because you have to be able to weigh up if you want to give a building a temporary function, for example in an emergency building. However, as part of the implementation with the VNG, I will encourage municipalities to allow such temporary constructions at a noise-burdened location as short as possible. This is in line with the Ronnes/Van Veldhoven motion. Mrs Bikker asked whether provinces could achieve the same results under the Environment Act in order to reduce planning at vacant offices. I believe that the Environment Act offers effective opportunities for provinces to take their direction. By means of rules of instruction or by means of an instructional decision, they can instruct municipalities to adapt an environmental plan. I think there's a province already doing something like that. Municipalities can also be forced to remove office functions, for example, but keep freedom in determining which functions are admissible instead. So as long as an instruction rule or instruction is not processed, a preparatory decision may prevent interim undesirable developments. In my view, this means that the provinces have adequate control tools.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u137	Thanks anyway, but I knew that. There is more to the fact that there is a discussion between a number of provinces and the Minister about whether this is a good toolbox or whether we should have kept plan reduction as a possibility. I said that the Minister is convinced of this and I want to give her that confidence. However, I would be pleased if we could evaluate this briefly in two or three years' time or after entry into force. Then we don't have to go back and forth with the question of who has the smartest plan to be fastest, but then that's a logical measurement moment. Using my interruption, I also ask the Minister the following. She would read something at the beginning to reassure a number of people who are still listening. Maybe that's how she braids it in her story. It's about the accessibility of buildings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u138	I already told the group that it will be officially discussed later. I can do it in between now, if you'd like, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u139	You're talking about "later," but what time do you think you'll be ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u140	I still have a lot of answers. You can see I'm trying to talk as soon as I can. I come to this point at the Buildings Decision environment; that won't take long. Can we monitor the quality of the living environment permanently? In the Bkl there are rules for monitoring. It takes place periodically. The periods are such that the outcome of the policy can be properly assessed and adjusted in time. Why hasn't a rule of instruction been added to the environment vision for the water test, asked Mrs Bikker. Combating water pollution is, of course, very important. It is now so arranged that a municipality, if there was already a municipal plan, had to ask the water boards at the end if it was right. In the Environment Act we have arranged that municipalities already sit down with water boards at the table and discuss what is really wise. Especially now that the new delta plan for adaptation will come soon, you must of course think in advance how you want to decorate your area to make you resistant for the future. In the Environmental Act, the structure vision is replaced by the environmental vision. The practice in which the water test is carried out on the basis of administrative agreements will simply continue. The environmental vision is therefore subject to the water test. The Bkl does not impose any substantive requirements on the environmental vision. It's a strategic vision. It has no legal effect like an environmental plan. At law level, it is not appropriate to set instructions for the environmental vision, and not just for one part, because water is just important like other parts. But the most important thing for me is that they're gonna do that test with each other right now in front of me. It is not a legal obligation, it is actually an obligation to participate and thus far more important and larger than to submit something at the back that someone can ultimately ignore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u141	The Minister is right to say that the vision of the structure has been followed by the vision of the environment. The environmental vision is now also laid down. For the zoning plans and the provincial regulations, a water test has to be carried out, but in the environmental vision, the Minister suddenly stops. I do not really see the problem and I do not understand why it is so vague on this point, because precisely the environmental vision is the strategic document that precedes everything else. Then it would not be a problem at all to add the water test, especially in order to avoid long-term planning problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u142	The environmental vision has not yet been established, because it has yet to be made. It is also a strategic vision. So it has no legal effect, like an environmental plan. That's why it makes no sense to include an instructional rule in that place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u143	The last time, Mr. Chairman, because I'm also in the mood for speed. The environmental vision is now also captured. It wasn't originally. She wasn't in the Environment Act and in the AMvB as a legal document. She was later added by the House of Representatives. That makes me think: if we were to draw a line for dealing with the water test, would it be appropriate, also in the light of the Water Administrative Agreement that has been concluded and where the structural vision has been agreed to do the water test, to do the same with the successor, the new right-wing environmental vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u144	Back in the day, at the end, we required a test that you didn't have to stick to. The waterboard was only allowed to express itself about what it thought and the municipality could put that aside. Now it is made mandatory at the front that you have to take water into account when making plans. So it's much better secured. That's why we don't make an instructional rule. We say: water people have to sit at the table, environmental people have to sit at the table, nature people have to sit at the table. All these interests actually weigh equally heavily. You don't have to think of a rule of instruction to make sure that the interest is taken into account, because we just say: you have to consider all the interests that are relevant. I've already spoken to the water boards. I said the election programs are coming up soon, I'd make sure you guys have a paragraph on what's important in the areas long before the environmental plans. It's a way to get you involved early. Mr Van Dijk asks what to do if there is a gap if the existing rules on noise, vibration and smell expire with the entry into force of the Environmental Act, and the designs are not yet regulated in the environmental plan, because the municipalities have been given some time to adapt the planning plans. For the implementation decision, for the period when the environmental plans do not yet comply with the instruction rules on noise, vibration and odour, a regime will be provided for this hole to be closed. We are going to design the scheme in such a way that it provides for a set of rules that are directly inserted into the environmental plans by law. The set of rules will also be part of the environmental plans and will also comply with the digital standard for environmental plans. This provides for a good awareness of these rules, legal certainty and the reduction of administrative burdens. The SGP asks whether the concept of insurance does not lead to an increase in the assessment of the application for an environmental authorisation. That is a valid point. This point will be taken into account. There's no need to add up. Unclearness due to a potentially too far-reaching meaning of "insurance" will be removed and the text of the BKl will be amended in this respect. D66 asks why we don't record standards for peak noise during the day. The Secretary of State's ordered an investigation into peak noise. It has been concluded that occasional peak noise during the day is generally not a problem. If peak noises are a problem for certain companies in practice, the municipality can choose to impose additional requirements in the environmental plan or in a customised regulation. So most of the time it's not a problem. That's why I don't take it as a general rule. If it's a problem, they can work something out. In the case of nuisance protection, peak noise simply counts with the average noise. If a company causes too much peak noise, the standard for the daily average is not met. The deletion of the standard is to avoid that you do not have to make a calculation for everything, which of course we often did in the past. The Party for Animals asked about the basic level of protection for sound and vibration. The basic level of protection is the lower limit, i.e. the limit values set out in the decisions. The discretion of the municipality is at issue in the area between that basic level of protection and the default values expressing a generally accepted level. Under current law, these possibilities also exist in the form of customised rules, allowing municipalities to deviate from the standards in the Activity Decision. D66 asks what the conditions are for the inclusion of an environmental value for CO. Whether or not an environmental value for the reduction is the appropriate instrument depends on a number of aspects. First of all, an environmental value only makes sense if the environmental value is objective. Of course, the context of policy is important. We just talked about that. For climate, the distribution of reduction efforts is still under negotiation between Member States. The environmental value is not necessarily a better instrument than any other instrument, because there is no hierarchy between different instruments. So you can also achieve the reductions in a different way. Finally, Mr Van Dijk of the SGP asked whether Article 8.8 Bkl could not be worded less voluntarily, in order to prevent the rules of the environmental plan from sometimes and sometimes not being applied in similar situations. They should always be applicable to environmentally harmful activities subject to authorisation. In the event of conflict with the environmental plan, you can ask for a permit for the deviation activity. Article 8.8 deals only with the link between the environmental plan and the environmentally harmful activity subject to authorisation. Questions were asked during the consultation and in the Lower House. There has been consultation with the domes in business. As a result, we will clarify that the environmental plan is an important source of information in the assessment of whether there is significant pollution of the environment caused by the activity subject to authorisation. We will determine in the Bkl that the environmental plan should be taken into account in the assessment of the permit application. This also means that the competent authority must justify the manner in which the rules will be applied. I'm moving on to the Decision Activities Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u145	That's your last block?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u146	No, not quite. I've got two or three more. That depends on how you calculate. But as you hear, I'll talk as soon as I can. I will no longer explain what the decision stands for. You'll believe all that. I'll get straight to the questions. The first question is from Mr Van Dijk. It asks how the specific duty of care results in companies having to do more than follow the general rules and what this means for the initiator. I can say to Mr Van Dijk that the specific duty of care does not mean that companies have to do more under normal circumstances. In most cases, a company simply has to comply with the more elaborate rules of the Ball, including those for the specific duty of care. Only in special circumstances does the specific duty of care require additional measures from a company. Think of discharge to surface water if, for example, there is a drinking water intake point nearby. The implementation of the specific duty of care lies primarily with the company. The general duty of care is there because we do not want to describe everything, but sometimes you want to describe something specifically, because you want to let us know that there is really a risk. Its implementation therefore offers room for companies, because they can see for themselves how they implement it. If they don't know how to do it, they can consult with the competent authority. The Christian Union is asking how I can prevent what I cut by rules of the empire from coming to the decentralised side. I think I've already answered that. Then I immediately move on to the Decision building environment, which also includes the section on accessibility of buildings. This is the responsibility of my colleague, Mr Plasterk. But since I had so many questions and he probably only had one, I thought I could answer for him. Several political groups have asked whether I can confirm that the accessibility requirements for buildings will be incorporated back into the AMvB. In this context, I think it is right to keep two things apart, namely the accessibility requirements and the so-called usability requirements for buildings. Accessibility requirements relate to the physical accessibility of buildings for people with disabilities. Think, for example, of a ramp. The accessibility requirements set out in the 2012 Building Decision are one-on-one in the Bbl. That's all there is to it. The discussion in the Lower House was about the usability requirements. They weren't recorded one-on-one. I would like to mention, for example, the minimum ceiling height. Following a commitment by the then Minister for Housing and National Service and various motions, the usability requirements for housing will be returned to the Bbl. So then both the accessibility requirements and the usability requirements are the same as they were in the past. You have not been able to see that place back, because you all still had the old AMvB as it went to the Lower House. But as a result of the discussions it will be adapted in the version to be sent to the Council of State. I hope that this will remove the unrest that has arisen. Is there any involvement of the construction sector in the Environment Act? From the outset, the construction sector has been involved through the Building Regulation Consultation Platform (OPB). That platform has issued several opinions on the Environment Act and the Bbl. The next consultation with the OPB will focus on the implementation of the Environment Act and on the wishes of the building industry in the context of information and knowledge transfer. It concerns demand-driven information for construction companies and project developers. The sector itself also organises joint road shows Environment Act of Bouwend Nederland and municipalities. So that too goes very well. I would now like to move on to the Digital System Environment Act. I dealt with the hardest parts first, so we...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u147	That's your last folder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u148	Yes. Many questions have been asked about the Digital System Environment Act (DSO). Rightly so, because I also indicated last time that this was all my greatest concern before we started. This is always a concern for governments: you can make policies until you weigh one o'clock, but if you also have to implement it, digitize it and implement it, then there is actually the biggest challenge. I do not want to see that as a closing point, I want to see that as one of the most important elements. Because if we don't make everything we invent accessible, you might as well not do it. I understand the concerns of the various parties, because I also have those concerns. I cannot take care of it in advance, because it is always more expensive and it always takes longer. But I'm on it. How do I do that? I am on top of it by developing the DSO step by step with the different parties and domes to reduce the risks and to build security. If you choose step-by-step development, you can freeze a certain piece each time before switching to the next part. We have taken further advice from the Elias Committee. We also have a working method, in which concrete intermediate products are always produced. We are not starting from scratch, because much has already been digitised, on which we are building. Citizens and businesses can already make digital notifications and apply for permits, and they will still be able to do so. The aim is to have the current level of service at the time of entry into force, but then broaden it with the scope of the Environmental Act. I heard someone say we were gonna sit under there, but that's not the point. It is about the current level, extending to the scope of the Environmental Act. So that's more than in the Wabo. This supports working with the Environment Act, both for citizens and businesses as well as for governments. We are taking a big step, because the current loose features are integrated. I refer to the current environmental window, Spatial Plans.nl and the Activity Decision internet modules. There will then be a robust system, on which we can build in the coming years, because our ambition goes far beyond just lifting the current level to a new level. In the end, we want the digital Loket Environment Law to unlock all kinds of data that help to make better decisions about the physical environment. There is already a lot of information about the physical environment. However, this does not mean that the existing data are always easily available or can be reused. The aim is to improve the exchange of information, speed up decisions on procedures, reduce research costs and improve the validation of the figures. Step by step, we will work towards improving and developing the system. That's just gonna go on after the Environment Act comes into force. At the time of entry into force, at least the current level should be present. After that, it just goes on and on. Our final picture is that anyone with a click on the map can see what can and may be done at a location. A lot of questions have been asked about that. A working digital system is necessary. That's why we're working hard on it. Like the members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I see the complexity and risks associated with the development of a DSO. These risks are linked not only to the development of an DSO, but also to the development of legislation and regulation and to the alignment of the two. We'll run that through the BIT. We have several "go/no go" moments for that. I explain the PvdA's question on this point so that that group asks about the decision-making on information houses included in the administrative agreement. From these information houses, we've made analyses to get a look at the information that we can already access along that road. I have agreed with the intergovernmental partners that we will move on to the next stage, in which they will produce plans of action to do so. I will inform Parliament by letter in June of the state of play. The further development of the DSO is an effect within the established frameworks. There is no specific "go/no go" moment in this Chamber. I'll send the letters for more information. The Chamber can then always see whether it wishes to intervene or not. In view of the importance and extent of the project, I will continue to inform the Chamber intensively, through the regular progress reports. If the DSO is considered by the House of Representatives to be a Great Project, for example, I will report on progress twice a year, so that Parliament remains informed of the latest developments. What are realistic costs? We first made a cost estimate, for which we hired an external party. If you have to divide that between ourselves and different domes, that's always a point of discussion. An initial assessment was made on the basis of the final picture. We're building an DSO like it should be at the time of entry into force. We want more, we have worked out the requirements more precisely and now a real estimate has been made: 104 million. We are now working on further development. So that too will play a role, for example for the information houses that are now being created. Business cases are designed to provide a clearer picture of costs and benefits. So the amount is not yet fixed. The various parties responsible have agreed with each other that once in a while they will sit together to see if they will continue in the same way. It is precisely through the step-by-step approach that you cannot outline the exact cost picture of the final picture, but with each step we become a bit clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u149	That's clear to me. But does this mean that it is still the ambition to build all these information houses? In some time there will be a cost to realize ten information houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u150	Yes. In fact, we are talking about existing information houses, which we are converting so that they become more interplayed. Because you don't want to put everything in one system. If you do that, you will have endless discussions about who has the best system and whether the figures need to be transformed to the left or right. It is a question of how much it costs, how fast it can be done and at what rate it is carried out. The starting point is at least the same service as now. So you shouldn't go backwards. When the DSO is further developed, further questions will be asked about the costs. I think that is a good thing, because more and more policy issues will have to be digitised. That's grossly underestimated by the government. We must demonstrate very clearly that you cannot achieve this kind of thing for a bummer; they are complex and complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u151	Clear. But I note that this is building with an open budget. Actually, we don't know what time span and bill will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u152	I wish I knew. This has to do with your level of ambition being achieved in steps. We've asked an outside party for the initial estimate. That turned out to be almost double later. You're gonna have to take that into account. We also know that the Empire, provinces, municipalities and water boards must take the fall for themselves. Somewhere there will be a "ho": level of ambition and budgets are linked. We're all at the table, because we want to. We would, of course, like it to be free of charge, but unfortunately that is not the case. Did we cover it? I made financial agreements with the co-governments. The Empire is responsible for the investment costs of the DSO, while the competent authority is responsible for the transition costs. For the operating costs, we agreed on a distribution key. So there are arrangements of principle, but if it all turns out to be very different, we'll go back to the table by appointment. We will, of course, be happy to keep the Chamber informed about ICT through an annual progress letter and through reports if Parliament considers this to be a major project. We also have the ICT Dashboard. Is the digital route accessible to citizens on time? Like the members of the PvdA Group, I value a working DSO when it enters into force. That is a condition for me to bring the law into force. You need to be able to apply for a permit and make a report. That is an important element. Mr Flierman asked whether we did not rely too much on citizens' digital skills. We must, of course, take into account people who are less digitally skilled; that is no different now. We must also take this into account in other policy-making. There is a possibility to subscribe to decisions on government.nl. This attention service will also be integrated into the DSO. The Digital System is a tool, but not an obligation. The notification for, for example, the environmental permit simply remains in the home pages. The PvdA asked whether the DSO is being developed in such a way that there is accurate and up-to-date information on which the competent authority bases its decision. Yes, of course. The starting point and ambition for 2024 is to have the quality improvement of the information on the physical environment ready. Not all data in the Digital System will be available at the time of entry into force. It's a growth model, but this is our ambition. The PvdA also asked how enforcement agencies in the DSO can see which rules apply in a location. It must always be clear which rules apply. The Digital System is also a tool here. It is open to all, not only to enforcers, but also to initiators, stakeholders and competent authority. If you have one afternoon left, you can also see what it's all like. There is no question of a multiple reality. There's the same thing everywhere. Again, it is a growth model. In the beginning, there might still be some gaps in it, but in the end, you want to have it closed. The rules in the DSO must be clear and enforceable. The question was whether I am prepared to ask the Council of State whether the test on clear standards and enforcement has also been carried out to a sufficient extent. The Council of State also reviews legislation in order to carry out its legal advisory role. The same applies to the rules of the Environment Act and the rules in the AMvB. So that's already in the Council of State's request. Am I willing to take stock of how far municipalities are in their preparation and whether help is needed? This applies not only to the DSO, but also to the implementation in a broad sense. The answer is yes. The SP asked this question. We have an implementation monitor, in which the progress of implementation is monitored. Parliament is informed of this every year. That monitor's been decorated with demand-driven equipment. The results of the monitor are translated into actions of the implementation programme. Many municipalities are already very active, but there are also municipalities that still need a little help in this area. We organize a lot for that. Ms Stienen asked what would happen if municipalities were not ready when the Environment Act came into force. It's a transition call. They've actually already started this. We are still having a debate on the Environment Act, the AMvBs and the implementation law, but many municipalities are already working on an environmental plan and are already working on it. There's a lot of experimentation already. More than 300 projects have already been made possible through the Crisis and Recovery Act, which is used to prepare the Environment Act. Anyway, we will also try to keep everyone involved through the implementation process. It is up to municipalities to organise their efforts in such a way that they are connected in time for entry into force, otherwise they will suffer. Citizens may apply for a digital licence, but the municipality will then have to process that application on paper; of course you do not want to have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u153	I'm always happy with rulers whose glass is half full. That is also often the attitude of life in D66. But we hear reports from especially small communities that they are not doing very well, and that is exactly what we are concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u154	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u155	I'll specify. I am concerned with the cases where the glass is half empty, the municipalities that are not yet finished. What happens for these municipalities at the time of their introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u156	We've got a little time. I will come back to that later when I talk about planning. As soon as the introduction law is in place, the adoption decision is not yet in place. I think it's gonna take a little longer than we originally planned. So we still have some time. We have an implementation process, we guide municipalities, we monitor that, we keep track of those who can't be strong and we try to provide as much help as possible. We do not say: we have devised this on a rich level and you will find out how to meet it. We're providing active support. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u157	I have one final supplementary question. The municipal elections will take place in March 2018. Of course, we think that this is a fantastic democratic process, but it could, if necessary, delay it. How has this been taken into account in implementation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u158	I don't know if that'll slow down. It is mainly about a change of political leaders. Those who work on the underlying process just stay put. That's the nice thing about the Dutch model. Politicians come and go, but the official remains. We do, of course, ask parties to pay attention to the fact that they can include something about this in their electoral programme. We point out that they may need to reflect on the roles of aldermen in the future situation, but then there is still time to shape that well, probably even until another college. GroenLinks asked if the funding and progress are sufficient for the implementation. We are very early in preparing the Environment Act, while we do not even adopt the introduction law yet. The Empire has made 35 million available for implementation support. I'll monitor that. Mrs. Klip and others asked about small municipalities. Again, I am really trying to help them with the implementation programme, for example by developing courses and handles in which the new instruments have an explicit role, and you name it. Mrs Klip asked if the Empire would help other governments in the digital catch-up. Yes, of course. We are not just building a Digital System that all governments can use, but we are also helping to implement it. I have already indicated that we have made a sum available for this. The so-called Exploratory Information Provision Act has also examined what is necessary for this purpose. This resulted in a lot of knowledge, which is made available to local authorities. For example, we create route planners, which define the steps to be taken by governments, we do pilots and we organise meetings. We do this together with VNG, IPO and the Union, because they all feel responsible for this. Mrs. Klip asked me how I look at the monitoring program. I think continuous monitoring is a very important part of the implementation programme. A monitoring programme has therefore been set up in the implementation programme. Three elements are monitored: the success of the law, or the achievement of the policy objectives of the system review, the progress of implementation by the competent authority and the experience with the implementation programme. That monitor not only focuses on accountability, but also on learning from each other's experiences. If we have that data, we will return it to governments, because sharing experiences is very important. We will inform Parliament annually about the results of the monitor. The SGP asked how I deal with the risk that provinces, municipalities and RUDs are hardly involved in the DSO. It is very important that they are prepared in good time. I pay attention to the need to involve users in the development of the DSO. The approach of the DSO also makes this possible. Intermediate products are delivered on a quarterly basis which, if they are far enough away, can actually be used by the various authorities to practice. With such a DSO, you can only work if the users can work with it, otherwise there is no point at all. So we split it up into quarterly products. I'll be on the schedule. This system review is one of the largest legislative operations in recent decades. There's a lot of legislative trails in it. I have heard one of the MPs sigh: there is a main trail, there are additional tracks and AMvBs and there is an introduction law; what are we supposed to do with that? It's so complex and so big that you can't think of it all at once. That doesn't work and that's why there are several tracks. You attach great importance to the careful construction of the new system. We must ensure that, when a new system comes into force, all legislative products together ensure adequate protection of vulnerable values, without creating unnecessary barriers to development. The latter is, of course, complex, because all products together must form a consistent system of environmental law. There too the venom usually sits in the tail and in the details. That is why I would like to look again at the planning of the reform of the system, but not so much at its final entry into force. When exactly should the adoption decision be adopted? I'd rather it be careful than it be quick. That's the most important thing for me. I will inform Parliament about this after the summer. It was Mrs Stienen who asked about the balance between speed and care. As far as I am concerned, care is of the utmost importance. I will conclude with the commitments, because that might help with the second round. We've already built a future-proof system, but I realize today we're only talking about the toolbox. The final effect depends to a large extent on the people who work with it: the municipalities, the provinces, citizens and businesses. It also depends on the standards that are ultimately applied politically. Extra interesting is to see how the coming years will continue to work in the spirit of the Environment Act and how it will eventually come about definitively. What have I promised the Chamber? I have indicated that the AMvBs and the introduction law will be sent to the Council of State for advice at the same time, so that they can be assessed in conjunction with it and thus give an opinion on standards in the law versus the AMvBs. The Court can assess the results of this when discussing the introduction rules. I have said that I will clarify what are not important changes to the environmental permits. I will change that in the version of the Council of State. I have said that in the decision on the environment, when it comes to the obligation to state reasons for participation, I will also make it clear what has been done with the contribution. With regard to the obligation to state reasons for participation, I have indicated that I will express in the explanatory memorandum how it relates to equivalence. As far as nature compensation is concerned, I will make it clear in the Bkl note that nature compensation must take place in good time, and that this must mean that the measures are guaranteed in the decision-making process. I will also clarify that the nature compensation must not have been achieved before the procedure. In order to ensure the assessment rules, I will change the word "insurers" in the Blk, because it gave uncertainty and some people saw it as an add-on. In this way, I believe I have communicated the main commitments and removed some of the concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u159	I've been asked for a very short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u160	We have arrived at the second term of office. I call Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u161	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the Minister for her comprehensive reply and the commitments. I'm gonna walk by a few points and make a few observations. We have not fully agreed on what should be regulated in the AMvBs and what should be regulated in the law. We have agreed that we will listen very carefully to what the Council of State says on this point. I note that the Minister has made the commitment we as the CDA Group had hoped for in this respect. The Council of State, which no doubt takes note of this debate and of the tension we have appointed, will come up with a serious opinion. The Minister will take this seriously and inform us, and ensure that we have an assessment time in the implementation law to see if we are satisfied with the way it has been done. I would like to make a comment on the procedure we have now followed, because, frankly, there are a number of risks involved in dealing with AMvBs in this way, in the form of almost pseudo-law. We get a lot of room to talk about the AMvBs. That is what we are doing, because there are many important issues in it, issues that perhaps should have been dealt with in the law. All in all, that's less happy. The Minister says that this will happen more often, because in faster and dynamic times there is a need to respond quickly to new developments. That may be so, but legislation in a formal sense also retains value when it comes to continuity. Moreover, you can see that this house, when it comes to the AMvB as pseudo-law, cannot resist the temptation to hold all kinds of substantive debates. It is interesting that it is precisely the Minister who is going to point out to us that she would like to discuss some matters in the Lower House rather than in the Upper House and that it is not really appropriate for her to talk about them in the outgoing status. That's what happens when you organize the procedure like that, I'd say. So that's a point to reconsider. We are very pleased with the way in which the Minister wants to deal with participation. We support the policy freedom of the municipalities and also the space for customization in municipalities. The CDA Group also has great confidence in the wisdom and intelligence of local representatives. National representatives are not necessarily more sensible than local representatives, although if you follow the debates here, you might sometimes think that some people do. As far as we are concerned, there is every reason to give full scope to local representatives and provincial policy. We insist that policy space means that there is more chance of legal proceedings. A ticking list is simply easier to look at, even for a judge. As there is more room for open policy, there will also be more reason for people who disagree with that policy to go to court. In this respect, it is important that all of these aspects are closely monitored, as well as the risks involved, but also, for example, the extent to which citizens are able to participate fully. We value that very much. The Minister said that landscape is an autonomous task of provinces. Strictly speaking, I think that means that the province can also choose not to do anything about it. However, given all kinds of statements in administrative agreements, policy agreements and the statements made by the Minister, I assume that provinces cannot ignore the landscape as an important value, that they will develop policies on it and that they will be expected to do so. As far as we are concerned, that is enough. Finally, the Digital System Environment Act. The Minister's commitment is clear. The current level of service, extended to the Environment Act, should in any case be guaranteed at the time when we are going to introduce the law. That is something we will be very keen on. As has already been said, as far as our group is concerned, this is a precondition for the adoption of the introduction law. The ambitions for the further development of the DSO are great; that is clear. But the level of ambition has not yet been set, nor has the cost and budget. That is building with an open budget, as I said in an interruption. My experience is that that almost always goes wrong. For now, it's what it is. But it's a formula for disasters. The government has a bad reputation for controlling the budget, costs and time in large ICT projects. I would almost say that the Minister does not have a colleague in the cabinet who cannot tell heartbreaking stories about it. The CDA Group will therefore keep its finger on the pulse and follow this process explicitly. But I assume that the government and the minister and its successors will also do so very emphatically. I wish her and her successors a great deal of strength and success. That concludes my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u162	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister. She has answered many of our questions. I am very grateful to her for that. She's made a number of commitments. With others, I welcome the fact that it is very explicit here that the Council of State will look into the AMvBs and the introduction law in conjunction with it before it comes to us and that the issue or standards will certainly have to be regulated at law or at AMvB level. We believe that this is very important. We have talked a lot about the extensive procedure and whether or not the municipalities should have freedom of choice. I am not convinced by the Minister's plea that this should not be the case. I will therefore be happy to support Mrs Meijer's motion on this point. As far as participation is concerned, I am still not entirely clear as to why the Minister is so convinced that she complies with the Aarhus Convention and the EU Directive. She said that we are going to involve people at an early stage. That's very important. But I would like her to explain that a little more firmly in the second term. It has made a number of important commitments concerning the obligation to state reasons, the results of participation and the issue of equivalence by the CDA. She also told me that these procedural and substantive conditions will be regulated in the notification and that access to information will also be regulated. My question is still whether it is not important to put that into a much clearer form in an AMvB. The Minister now refers a lot to other legislation, including the General Administrative Law Act. But isn't it important to put the whole that she's describing now into the AMvB very clearly and concretely, so that we really know what we're up to? I believe that the Minister and I continue to disagree on the level of protection that is equivalent. I read that RIVM says that it is not defined and therefore cannot be checked. I'll take that as a problem. More exceptions will be possible under the new legislation, including noise, external safety, water quality and air quality. Rules will be deleted. On this point, I would specifically ask the Minister to use monitoring and zero measurements for this purpose and, if possible, to report to the Court on this. Is the Minister indeed going to realize that? I come to the wider decision-making area for municipalities around protecting and exploiting. My group insists that at least basic protection must be guaranteed. We are not convinced by the Minister on this point. Will it actually monitor and report on this issue and will it ensure that it is indeed on the agenda? With regard to the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Interim Urban and Environmental Act, I have one very specific question. In my view, the Minister is now releasing the time limit, which was already there, and it is still possible, in fact, to allow certain exceptions to exist forever. I would like to be clear about that. My group would attach great importance to greater leadership from the cabinet on the issue of cumulation and standardisation, but we do not agree with the Minister on this point. I'm getting to the point of energy transition. The Minister says that if she is going to include more things about this, that in fact calls for new standards. I'm gonna look at that differently. In my opinion, the House of Representatives has already stated that it wants an environmental value for greenhouse gases and it is indeed possible to include more guiding instructions in the new system in order to pursue certain objectives. I would therefore like to make a motion. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Teunissen, Mr Meijer, Mr Koffeman and Mr Wezel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the promotion of sustainable development is one of the starting points of the Environment Act;]] [[Whereas the energy transition is an essential element of sustainable development;]] [[Whereas the energy transition calls for rich rules setting energy savings targets, renewable energy targets and greenhouse gas targets;]] [[Whereas the above objectives should be decentralised and effective regional and local implementation;]] [[calls on the Government to include environmental values for greenhouse gases in the Quality of Living Environment Decision and instructions for energy saving and renewable energy, with a view to implementing and implementing the Paris Climate Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-R]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u163	I have three comments to make. I have indicated that the ambition in terms of air quality and health is not being sufficiently achieved. I would therefore like to make a motion which will shortly be tabled by D66 and which calls for health targets. I am pleased that the Minister has said that the role of the Empire is indeed there in terms of nature, including in terms of the level of protection and the obligations to achieve results. We think that is important. I'd like to get an answer to a question about water protection. These are mining activities that take place under a drinking water supply area, but start from the surrounding area. I do not believe that this mining activity can take place. I am pleased that the Minister says that monitoring is very important and needs to be robust. I am surprised, however, that she then says that it is not foreseen that it will cost more money. I can't imagine. This new system requires a much more structured and intensive monitoring of all parties, especially when it comes to the responsibility of the Empire. I would like to hear that when it is necessary to make more financial resources available for this purpose, it will be possible in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u164	Mr. Chairman. I have four points in second term. I welcome the Minister's commitment that the request for an opinion to the Council of State will address the tension we have felt between the law and the AMvBs on the setting of standards and on the question of whether the standard setting does not belong in the law itself. The Minister has also promised us that the issue of monitoring, enforcement and clear standards will be included in the request for advice to the Council of State. We were less happy with the outcome of the debate on the extended procedure. Nevertheless, it remains to be seen that the competent authority, which is ultimately responsible for both the quality of the process and the quality of the content of the licence or project decision to be taken, would also depend on the initiator. In the discussion it became clear to me that the competent authority can also control the procedure itself and in that sense can hold its full responsibility, but the Minister opposed it. That remains a point between the two of us for a while. As far as air quality is concerned, I think the air has cleared up a bit. On this point, the Minister did indeed present me with four instruments in which her initiative and her responsibility can be fulfilled within the framework of the required national responsibility. Finally, I come to the DSO, the design of the information houses and the position of the citizen. We have, of course, clearly noted that the financial coverage for the overall system, including the DSO, is not yet available. The new cabinet will therefore certainly be called upon, but also on the local authorities to ensure adequate coverage. That is the condition for implementation. The Minister has promised to ensure that there will also be clear support for citizens for the quality and reliability of this information. I shall table a motion confirming this and which can be used in the review of the introduction law and the adoption decision. The President shall: Mr Verheijen, Mr Vos, Mr Sini, Mr Bikker and Mr Diederik van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that the Environment Act strongly appeals to citizens' willingness to participate actively in participation and participation procedures;]] [[that the authorities set up a digital system for the purposes of data provision under the Environment Act;]] [[that it is desirable for citizens to be able to receive support in the search for the right information;]] [[the need to ensure the reliability of data in the digital system;]] [[calls on the Government to pay attention in the implementation programme to the importance of providing citizens with good information on participation pathways and to ensure the quality and accessibility of data in the digital system in the implementation rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-S]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u165	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister once again for the enthusiastic answer to all the questions raised by my group, but also to the questions put by my colleagues. I listened with interest to the reply. The main standards determine the policy and they are often at the heart of regulation. For the Christian Union Group, it is very important that the content should ultimately remain guiding and that the process should not become leading. That is precisely the danger of a framework law. It's imaginable. It is also a logical first step that the Minister has taken. But it is now quite exciting how the Chamber can fulfil its role as co-legislator, to have the regulations that follow, and also to have these AMvBs carried by the parliament. For the Christian Union group, therefore, it is important that the law also contains the core. We must avoid the blurring of the border between law and AMvB, and that actually makes the difference more and more gray. That is not necessary and that is not appropriate for a representative democracy. That's what I'd like to give you. However, to my great enthusiasm, during this debate, more than in the written reply, the Minister showed that she has a sense of tension. After these wise words from the Minister, I'm sure that feeling will go down in her ministry as well. That gives courage. This also means that I am pleased with her commitment to include this tension in the transmission of these AMvBs and the introduction law to the Council of State, and also with her commitment that what is then the advice of the Council of State in relation to the bearing standards will be carefully weighed. I am really talking about the starting points, not the small figures, not the dikes, but it has to be precise. These principles must be handled conscientiously. I understand the Minister likes the speed and clarity. That makes perfect sense for a minister of traffic and much more. But in the end, it's about making laws that are being passed here. Then these laws will also become sustainable and this system development, the important legacy of the minister, will also be sustainable for the long term. In the field of water safety, I note a little more movement than with the other standards, which I have just outlined. I thank the Minister for that. These water safety standards are not based on a directive such as the Water Framework Directive or the Air Quality and Cleaner Air Directive. After all, the Flood Risk Directive does not set standards. That's the big difference with the other one. It is therefore good that the principles of our new water safety standards, which have just entered into force on 1 January of this year, should still be enshrined in the law. But for the moment, my group is satisfied that the minister or her successor, we do not know how long it will all take to look favourably at and take good note of what the Council of State will recommend. What the Christian Union Group wants is well known to the Minister. As far as the water test is concerned, too, the Minister seems reasonable. So I would almost go along with her approach, which I would like to put as benevolent pragmatically. Nevertheless, my group feels that it would be better to carry out the approach chosen for the water test on the environmental plans in line with the Water 2011 Administrative Agreement, in the light of the major impact of climate change and the importance of a water-robust facility. We are sparing here with motions, but after some doubt I shall table a motion because I would like to see this point secured in the long term. The President shall: Mr Bikker, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Vos, Mr Teunissen and Mr Meijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, among other things, climate change places the Netherlands on the task of continuing work on a water-robust spatial design;]] [[Whereas the Environment Act provides a basis for setting instructional rules for municipal environmental plans and provincial environmental regulations and project plans, but not yet for environmental visions, which must now be drawn up by all municipalities;]] [[Whereas the spatial planning process to achieve an environmental vision does not at present sufficiently ensure that the views of the water manager are taken forward early;]] [[Whereas the Water Management Agreement (2011) agreed to carry out the water test on all spatial plans relevant to water management, including structural visions;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible to set instructions for environmental visions in the Environmental Law and to ensure the early involvement of the Water Manager in environmental visions by including an instruction rule in the Quality of Living Environment Decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-T]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u166	I am pleased to note that the Minister cannot now record everything in the Digital System Environment Act, because it is a characteristic of digital developments that we cannot plan them all exactly in advance. At the same time, it must work when the law comes into force. That is essential for my group. That is why I fully agree with what Mr Flierman said about this. The Minister is aware of the need to clarify planning at the time of entry into force of the law of introduction, as well as a number of supplementary laws. This is inherent in such a major change in the system, but it is also unsatisfactory. After all, what do we now agree with? What do we agree on now? In the long term, what is ahead of the introduction law? When is the house of environmental law, to stay in my first term imagery, really in order now? The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats therefore now wants to hold a battle. We can only say whether it is a good plan when we can look at this whole thing and see whether we really do justice to a comprehensively sound environmental law. In doing so, we are only doing justice to the important developments that the Minister is taking forward, and to the important consequences for everyone in this country. After all, that is the beauty of environmental law: we will all drive home again through that environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u167	Mr. Chairman. My group would like to thank the Minister very much for the detailed first-term response. It was already mentioned in that period: this minister wants to be reminded when the minister of hastening. She's been pretty precise about that on highways: 130 km/h. It is not always clear where and when this speed standard applies and where other standards apply, but the maximum speed has undoubtedly been increased, albeit at the expense of an equivalent level of protection. The Minister states that raising the maximum speed would have had little effect on air quality, but recent research by the Belgian Road Safety Institute shows that air quality is substantially deteriorating at a higher speed limit, that the number of road deaths is substantially increasing and that drivers are not at home with it. In this sense, the Minister's vision seems to differ from that of the researchers. It also deviates from that of RIVM, which is at least our group's view of a fundamentally different legal construct in the Environment Act, which makes it impossible to speak of an equivalent level of protection. RIVM states that municipalities may deviate from the level of protection for smell, noise and vibration. Furthermore, the RIVM states: "How the freedom of assessment will be implemented is still uncertain, so it is impossible to establish in advance that there is equivalence." We must not forget whether there is an equivalent level of protection or not when the level of protection for smell, vibration and noise is different. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Vos, Mr Meijer and Mr Wezel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the emission standards for noise, odour and vibration can be justified in determining the environmental plan from the basic level of protection;]] [[Whereas, according to the qualitative consideration of the concept of AMMs under the Environmental Act by RIVM, this constitutes a fundamentally different legal construct which does not necessarily imply an equivalent level of protection;]] [[Whereas, for the sake of serious economic interests or serious social interests, it may even be possible to deviate permanently from these import standards;]] [[Whereas deviations from the basic level of protection may lead to health damage;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a uniform review framework setting out clearly the basis for the deviation from the basic level of protection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-U]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u168	Mr. Chairman. I have a point to make about drinking water. The minister says to stand up for the importance of drinking water. This is not in line with the alarming noises of the drinking water companies. The Environment Act has reversed the principle. Instead of "unemployed persons are prohibited unless an undertaking has a licence', i.e. "no, unless', it is turned to "yes, provided': "unemployed persons may, provided that an activity is not subject to authorisation or is not covered by the general rules'. How are new substances detected in drinking water? The Decision does not impose an obligation on companies to clarify, prior to authorisation, what substances they dispose of. How should toxic substances be detected in good time? Drinking water companies already face dozens of forced intake stops per year. It is expected that this number will only increase, until our water supply is stalled or there is a serious disaster. How's the secretary gonna prevent that? The minister said the discharge was an incident, but there are many such incidents, such as the years of discharge of the carcinogenic GenX by Chemours, formerly Dupont. Only a strictly 'no, unless' policy can limit that, but the present draft decisions do the opposite. Is the Minister prepared to say that she wants to consider a "no, unless" policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u169	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her answers, although I am not entirely satisfied with them. The Minister says that this Chamber is coming up with new policies, but this Chamber wants a battle now on air pollution, noise, health and level of protection. You can of course wait for the final introduction law, but I still have the idea that we can get a long way in that, especially with these AMvBs. This Chamber must also represent the interests of the Dutch, so it also cares about, for example, maximum speeds. Let us bet on improving as much as possible rather than worsening. WHO standards are identified as a healthy standard, so take that opportunity and seize that opportunity to do something good! After all, what problems does the Minister actually solve? The Minister insists on the regular procedure, because she thinks it is clear. Then she comes with all kinds of deadlines: twelve weeks, sixteen weeks, eighteen weeks. That's not really clear either. In addition, we run the risk that you will find yourself with all kinds of boarded-up plans. That gives no confidence, nor is it flexible. I therefore decide to table a motion on this matter. The President shall: Mr Meijer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Stienen, Mr Overbeek and Mr Bikker proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the government intends to apply the extended procedure only if it is a requirement of Europe;]] [[municipalities and provinces then have to handle complex permit applications in eight weeks;]] [[a period of eight weeks is too short for evaluators, such as municipal councils, stakeholders and residents, to form a sound judgment in that short period of time;]] [[invites the government, local authorities themselves, to decide whether to opt for the regular or extended procedure and thus to take due account of the smooth handling of an application for authorisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-V]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u170	Indeed, what problems does the Minister solve with this regular procedure? Does it rain that all procedures take too long, or are municipalities and provinces perhaps training things? I shall now turn to the question of Aarhus proof, which has just been mentioned. It hasn't become clear to me anyway. The Minister says the Århus proof law is. It's complicated matter. Can she guarantee us that this is indeed the case? From a reliable source and also from different angles, I have heard that this is not the case. If this isn't true, of course that's the axe at the root of this law. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how things are going if it turns out that this is not Aarhus proof. I am going to table a motion on this, but if the Minister lets us know on paper in the next week that what she says is true, I am, of course, prepared to withdraw the motion. If that is not the case, however, I am forced to maintain the motion. The President shall: Mr Meijer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Stienen and Mr Overbeek proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[both the Aarhus Convention and the EU Directives (2001/42/EC, 2003/35/EC and 2011/92/EU) impose substantive requirements on the quality of citizen participation in environmental matters, while both the Environment Act and the Environment Decision are limited to a procedural requirement and therefore does not impose any requirements on the quality of citizen participation;]] [[The Netherlands has committed itself, through the Aarhus Convention and the EU Directives mentioned above, to setting substantive requirements for the quality of citizen participation in environmental matters;]] [[calls on the Government to bring civil participation in the present draft AMBs into line with the international obligations of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-W]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u171	It is, of course, difficult to set objective standards for participation, but the proposals before us are only procedural and there is room for manoeuvre. My question to the Minister is how she guarantees that participation is such that people really feel heard. That is something other than just an ex post motivation, although of course we appreciate it. I would therefore like to see residents, for example, have the same level of participation as the government or the applicant and have the same level of participation as is already the case. Just to be safe, I have a proposal for that too. At the same time, that is the end of my contribution. The President shall: Mr Meijer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Overbeek and Mr Wezel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the procedure for an out-of-plan deviation from the zoning plan is reduced from 26 weeks to 8 weeks;]] [[it is expected that stakeholders will be less able to defend themselves and that there is not enough room for careful consideration;]] [[there is therefore a reduction in legal protection and participation;]] [[the government at the front, in the zoning plan, determines what it wants and does not want to include in the zoning plan, and that this involves a careful process of participation;]] [[a procedure in which there is a response and argumentation of views, does more justice to the interested parties than the limited review of objections and appeals as applicable in the regular procedure;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that stakeholders other than the government or the applicant, such as residents, have as much say as is currently the case in determining what is currently the environmental plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-X]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u172	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her answer, an answer which is entirely in line with the style of this lady-in-chief: very substantive and not less incontrovertible. As far as I'm concerned, big class, such a wide range of themes that have passed here. I have asked quite a few specific questions in my speech. I have had concrete and satisfactory answers to many of them, for which I would like to thank you once again. A number of points have also been exchanged by previous spokesmen, for example the question of what standards you may or may not put into the law. It is clear that there is still some light on that point between the views of at least part of this Chamber and those of the Minister. In any case, I welcome the agreed role of the Council of State. I agree with what Mr Flierman and Mrs Bikker said. It will be clear to the Minister that the First Chamber will follow this very closely. I understand very well what the Minister is saying about the speed of the developments we are facing and with which we have to deal, such as big data, drones and biotechnology. That is all clear, but it is quite clear that there is a certain precarious balance. On the one hand, there are all these rapid developments. On the other hand, there is a very solid and representative democratic system for which we should be grateful. That does indeed clash in a certain way with all these rapid developments. If you're gonna disrupt that balance by focusing everything on speed, you're gonna drain the democratic system. So there's a price tag on that. That tension needs to be monitored as closely as possible. Furthermore, we have to be very sober about the fact that legislation is codifying. It is the commitment of the past, because we do not know the future. That is what standards are about. The Minister also promised a number of further clarifications. It has already summarised the commitments itself, such as the so-called 'not insignificant changes'. A clarification will also be provided for the tightening up of the rules of instruction for nature conservation, which we have discussed, and for ensuring the rules of assessment. That's what we like to sign. I'm getting to my last point. As I underlined in my contribution, the SGP attaches great importance to a stronger anchoring of the water test as a whole. That is why I wholeheartedly support the Bikker motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u173	Madam President. On behalf of the D66 Group, too, thank you very much to the Minister for answering the questions and compliments to the enormous delegation of officials who have worked hard on this hugely extensive journey. There is still a lot of work to be done; we have also discussed this extensively. I would also like to thank the Minister for including the obligation to state reasons, in which the government must indicate how it has dealt with participation and participation pathways. In any case, this is a first step in recognising the importance of participation as we see it. We are also grateful for the importance the Minister attaches to the accessibility of information to less-literate people. In addition to the inspiration guide, we hope that the Minister will also look at the Ministry's own website, the website Getting started with the Environment Act and other communication from the Ministry, and that she will seek assistance from third parties where necessary. The D66 Group also welcomes the Minister's commitment to agree with local authorities on programmes for regional aspects of cross-border issues. I have a few more questions to clarify. Mr Meijer has already spoken in detail about the extended procedure. We are also wondering why the Minister does not really seem to give the municipalities confidence in making the choice for the extended preparation procedure in a responsible way. That is why we support the SP motion on this issue. According to the D66 Group, the Århus Convention's directives on minimum requirements for participation have also been interpreted very lightly by the Minister. We believe that the directives of this Treaty should be a guiding principle across the board of participation. Hence the support for Mr Meijer's motion from the SP. In addition, the D66 group believes that the government could really show more ambition in the present AMvBs when it comes to ensuring clean air for all Dutch. I would therefore urge the government to take on the role of directing, even when it comes to targets with concentrations that are safe for health. For the record, my group sees this discussion on the targets as part of the discussion on the reform of the system, because it deals with the division between levels of government and the question of who sets the level of ambition and thus provides the tools. It is in our view the government that bears the responsibility for this. That is why we are tabling a motion for a resolution. The President shall: Mr Stienen, Mr Meijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen and Mr Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the air in the Netherlands is far from healthy everywhere, there are 1 million people in the Netherlands with lung complaints who suffer from unhealthy air and are of interest to all Dutch people;]] [[noting that:]] [[European air quality standards are achieved almost everywhere, but they are not equivalent to healthy air;]] [[aim at effectively expressing healthy concentrations so that public authorities can use them;]] [[at present, not all targets in the AMvBs of the Environment Act are equivalent to concentrations that are safe for health (such as those of the World Health Organisation);]] [[calls on the Government to bring current targets in the AMvBs into line with concentrations that are safe for health and to update targets and add new targets on the basis of scientific knowledge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-Y]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u174	The Minister himself says that central control is sometimes necessary. That is also the view of the D66 Group, because ultimately the Empire is called upon when international climate agreements are violated, not the local authorities. That is exactly what we want with transitions of national importance that have a major impact on space, for example in the areas of energy transition, climate, mobility and housing. That is why the D66 Group is tabling a second motion on clear directional frameworks in the National Environment Vision. And that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u175	Sorry, I pressed the microphone button too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u176	I said this was the end of my input. The President shall: Mr Stienen, Mr Meijer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman and Mr Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Environmental Act is of limited prescribing character;]] [[Whereas:]] [[there is at the same time a need for transitions of national importance that will have a major impact on space, including in the fields of energy and climate, mobility and land use;]] [[national framework is desirable to ensure that these transitions are coherent, effective and rapid;]] [[calls on the Government to define in the National Environment Vision clear and guiding frameworks for the short and long term within which these transitions of national interest should take shape,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-Z]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u177	Madam President. I too would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive reply. For the VVD Group, there are four points on which I would like to draw your attention very briefly. I agree with a number of previous speakers that the VVD Group also welcomes the fact that the Minister has clearly stated that she too attaches great importance to seeking a careful balance in the positioning of standards in the law or the implementing decisions. We are pleased that it will also bring this point to the attention of the Council of State. In my contribution on behalf of the VVD Group, I have paid some attention to all kinds of political-administrative innovative forms of cooperation. We can well imagine that when the Environmental Law and the implementing decisions are in place, there will be a contact or that all these new forms of political and administrative cooperation will have a relationship with them. This has to do with the governance of the implementation of the Environmental Act. We could imagine that this aspect, for example in the National Environment Vision, should be given some attention. My third point concerns the digital system of the Environment Act, which has already been mentioned by previous speakers. That system remains a worry child. We understand very well, Mrs Bikker, that it is good to say that developments in ICT are going so fast that it is difficult to predict for a long time what it is going to cost. The second phase is not due to start until 2024. But because this digital support system is so important for the success of this law, we ask the Minister if she would like to keep the Chamber regularly informed of developments in this area. Finally. We have called on the government, in the minister's person, to set up a fully-fledged and robust monitoring programme with relevant indicators, feedback mechanisms and everything that goes with it. The Minister has, I think, clearly stated that this is being worked on and further considered. This monitoring programme is therefore further developed with other parties. This is indeed about achieving objectives and progress, but we assume that more aspects will be looked at, for example the threat of legalisation. On behalf of my group, I would like to make a further comment on the Minister's commitment to a motion in which we call on the government to carry out a good zero measurement under the monitoring programme, to review its implementation support priorities and to inform this Chamber accordingly. And that was...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u178	I...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u179	...the end of my speech, Madam President. You're very energetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u180	Yeah, I switch every time. If I have to read a motion, I have to turn off the other button. You're all very fast, and I'm also very fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u181	Good. The President shall: Mr Klip-Martin, Mr Bikker, Mr Bruijn, Mr Diederik van Dijk, Mr Stienen, Mr Van de Ven, Mr Vos, Mr Flierman, Mr Teunissen and Mr Meijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the introduction of the Environment Act is widely supported both in the Second and First Chambers and in a wide range of civil society organisations;]] [[environmental legislation in addition to "hard" targets such as environmental visions, environmental plans and procedures, especially in a different way that will not be implemented overnight by all concerned;]] [[the overall Digital System Environment Act is a prerequisite for viable implementation, but there are uncertainties in many areas;]] [[partly due to the complexity of the implementation and the ten-year transition period, this trajectory will only become clear as to whether and in particular how the Environment Act helps achieve the underlying objectives;]] [[a significant part of the success of the implementation and effective implementation of the Environment Act will therefore be "on the road', with the joint learning of successes and errors essential;]] [[the latter does not go itself and the development of "learning capacity" must be well organised, with the Empire having a great responsibility and holding for the time being a successful social introduction;]] [[a monitor is part of the implementation programme and is of great importance for this understanding of the baseline;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a good zero measurement, on the basis of which to review the priorities for implementation support and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33118-AA]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u182	I'm reopening the debate on the environmental laws. I give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u183	Madam President. It's getting late and there's a lot of scrabble words in there, so I'm trying to give you a short answer. I will not repeat the points on which everyone says they are happy to agree with me, but I will focus on the motions, so the points on which we still have an issue. There is also a point in the front and that is the role of AMvBs versus the role of laws and the role of parliament. Many parties say that on the basis of these AMvBs they have not yet formed their opinion on whether this is the best place or in the law. Some people say some things might have to be in the law. We do not agree on that. Luckily, they don't say they disagree either. The important thing is that we work out this tension with each other. I also liked the way some people said that we are finally codifying the legislation here. Legislation in a democratic process is always very important, I agree with Members. At the same time, this is also a challenge for the future, even for this Chamber, even though it is not up to me to do so, because society is demanding faster and faster changes from us. I am not a lawyer, but I am thinking, for example, of the National Road Traffic Service, which tests very good cars for road admission. For example, Tesla has also fully tested and approved it, after which Elon Musk gave an update of the car in one night, allowing it to do quite different things than those tested. Is that key still valid or not? This is more of an implementation issue, but legislation is also so fast that what we record is often obsolete. We will have to work together to find something that does justice to our democratic values. I think there's an interesting task there. The CDA and the Christian Union have also explicitly stated that they reserve the right to consider their views on the implementation law. For the time being, they agree to continue with the next step, but they want to look at it in due course. I believe that the SGP has said something similar. The other points mentioned by the CDA were mainly to emphasize once again what had been said before. I don't have to go into that again. Mrs Vos van GroenLinks asked me once again to discuss the participation and relationship with Aarhus's international obligations. I will. The Aarhus Convention and another European Directive call for participation in decisions on environmental matters to be guaranteed. I therefore propose the extensive preparation procedure for decisions which have significant environmental impacts. In this way, participation is possible prior to final decision-making. This is also required under the Aarhus Convention. It's not an economical interpretation, but it's really the full monty, so to speak. By submitting views, anyone can comment on this environmental permit, so there is no restriction and no additional rules are needed to comply with the Aarhus Convention. Mrs Vos also asked for derogations from the Bkl limit values, because she was concerned that this could only be done infinity. She asked a question about the deadlines. Let me try to clarify it one more time. There's a lot in it, and it's kind of hard to see it all through, I get that, but maybe it'll help if I sum up a few things. For sound there is no deviation from the inner value at all. There is no deviation for air at all. This is mentioned a few times, but this one is not possible. For external safety there is a deviation of up to three years and for smell and vibrations you can deviate. This is only allowed under serious circumstances, so no longer than is necessary. There's no fixed term for that. This is identical to the Interim Urban and Environmental Act. Mrs Vos said that the next point is the energy transition. She wanted to table a motion to promote sustainable development in the Environment Act. The Environment Act should also promote sustainable development, but I do not think that this motion on letter R should be used. So I say in advance that I will discourage it. Ms Vos asked the Cabinet to include environmental environmental values for greenhouse gases in the Decision on the instructions for energy saving and renewable energy, with a view to implementing and implementing the Paris climate agreement. I believe that the Paris climate agreement in this Chamber must first of all be ratified. So Mrs Vos is getting ahead of herself, but I think that the main reason for this is the content. The cabinet published the Energy Agenda in December 2016. After that, the government started working on the executive agenda. The goal is to emit 80% to 95% less CO in 2050. That's in line with Paris. The government is currently mapping what is necessary and possible to achieve that goal. We do this together with civil society organisations, companies and governments. We are now working on a program for the five so-called transition paths. These programmes include targets for reducing CO emissions per transition path, aimed at achieving the target for 2050. At the end of 2017 is an important milestone. The Netherlands then offers the European Commission the proposal of a national energy and climate plan. The next cabinet is then the move. There is therefore no difference of opinion in substance. We're gonna talk about how we're gonna live up to the Treaty of Paris. However, in terms of substance, I must strongly advise against this motion in this revision of the system. The shape and the way in which it really depends on how this is further developed at the end of 2017. It's also up to the new cabinet. Then Mrs Vos asked why I did not guarantee the protection of groundwater in mining activities. The CSF now before us is based on current legislation. In the meantime, new policies are emerging, for example the draft Structure Vision Underground that I put into procedure last November. That draft was discussed with the House of Representatives. In accordance with the procedures, they will then be placed before your Chamber. In this draft, the cabinet states that mining is excluded in the current water mining areas, groundwater protection areas and drilling-free zones. A motion by Mr Smaling requesting the exclusion of all areas designated by the provinces was rejected by the House of Representatives. Another motion to exclude shale gas extraction has also been adopted. I therefore carry out exactly what has been decided by the House of Representatives. In the new regulations, this will then be put back in place. I come to Mr Verheijen of the PvdA. He pointed out a number of points and said that he was pleased that there would be more attention to them or more certainty about them, for example about air quality. He also talked about the DSO and the clarity for the citizen. To what extent can you, as a citizen, draw certain conclusions in this mess of data? He tabled a motion on this subject, on letter S, in which he asked for the implementation programme to consider the importance of providing citizens with good information on participation pathways and to ensure the quality and accessibility of data in the digital system when implementing legislation. I see the motion as a policy support. The new system also enables citizens to participate actively. I understand his concerns about the availability of reliable information for citizens in order to be able to participate effectively. We all need to get used to our new role. Part of the implementation is the Inspiration Guide Participation Environment Act. It's for civilians. In addition, I would like to consider how the implementation programme can address the importance of providing citizens with a good information position in participation. I will also lay down detailed rules in the implementation rules on the quality and availability of environmental documents and data to ensure the robustness and accessibility of data. I come to Mrs Bikker from the Christian Union, who, like the CDA spokesperson, has made a number of comments on the role of the legislator. I just came up with that. Fortunately, the Chamber still has all the cards in its hands at the end of the introduction law. So the Chamber doesn't give up anything, but I understand very well what an exciting intermediate position it is now in. Mrs Bikker also drew attention to water safety and expressed her satisfaction at the fact that the Council of State was still looking at it. She has specifically called for attention to be paid to the water test. I didn't expect anything else from the Christian Union either. Again, I think it is very important that there is a test. As far as I'm concerned, that's in advance. That's why I won't recommend the motion. It has been agreed in the Water Management Agreement that the water test will be carried out on an environmental vision. So that's already been secured by administration. I've been reluctant to make demands on environmental visions. In the Bkl no substantive demands are made on the environment vision. As far as I am concerned, a mandatory water test would not be in balance, because I do not do so for the other parts either, but I did agree to it in the Water Management Agreement, so I have to stick to it in substance. The strategic vision does not have a legal effect like an environmental plan that does. That is also a reason not to make any substantive demands. The reason is, as far as I am concerned, still valid. I actually expect us to get to the same thing the Christian Union wants by another way. The Animal Party says that a Belgian study has shown that speeding is worse for everything. We will of course also have it examined by RIVM, PBL and KiM. Their studies are all a bit more nuanced about it and also indicate that in the end less emissions have been achieved than in the past. The Party for Animals has asked further attention for the equivalence discussion with the RIVM. I have already said that it can be interpreted in two ways. RIVM says it can be done, but then you depend on municipalities to fill it in. Because the Party for Animals is concerned about this, it has tabled a motion on a review framework protection against smell, noise and vibration. The motion calls on the government to develop a uniform review framework which clearly sets out the basis for the deviation from the basic level of protection. I consider this motion to support policy. I will also include this in the explanatory memorandum. That is only about smell and vibrations, because you cannot deviate from the inner value sound, as it is already fixed. So I don't see that part as support. I will state what is meant by 'heavy economic conditions and social conditions' and what requirements apply to the justification. If I may understand the motion in this way, I see it as a policy support. The Animal Party has also asked how it is indicated that toxic substances are being discharged and whether I would prefer to move to 'no, unless' policy. The Environment Act provides that discharges subject to authorisation are to be designated by AMvB. That's more like "yes, if" than "no, unless." This reversal of the Water Act does not mean that dangerous discharges will be possible without regulation. It is a reversal of the legal system, but not of the policy. The Ball lays down general rules for licensing for all sectors where significant environmental impacts are expected. That licence requirement shall apply to all discharges from establishments designated as authorised. This ensures that no discharges of special water flows are excluded. The examples mentioned by the Party for Animals, such as the discharge of fertilizers, remain subject to authorisation under the new system. Should information on these substances be provided in advance? Yes, a company must provide sufficient information on the hazard properties of chemicals it wishes to use when applying for a permit. It must also identify risks and its measures to reduce emissions. The competent authority shall assess this when assessing the application for authorisation. The submission requirements for the application for the environmental permit will be included in the ministerial scheme. The SP has filed three motions. The first concerns the extensive preparation procedure. I get that it sounds crazy that you don't put that jurisdiction down in the city while we're having a whole discussion about "decentral, unless," but what the motion is suggesting would really be a break with the Wabo. Once again, the legislator and not the competent authority determine what the procedure looks like. So we also have a difference of opinion. I do not want to give the competent authority the freedom to unilaterally impose the procedure itself because this leads to uncertainty for the applicant: is it 8 weeks or 26 weeks? In my view, the issue is clear: the importance of the applicant versus the importance of the competent authority. I choose clarity for the applicant. That clarity offers the Environment Act, so I'm deceiving the motion. The next motion by Mr Meijer, on letter W, concerns the Aarhus Convention. I hope that, in response to previous questions, I have just been able to take care of that. Ms Meijer asked the government to bring civil participation in the present AMvBs into line with the international obligations of the Netherlands. I can confirm that the AMMs are in line with the Aarhus Convention and the aforementioned European directives, by applying the extended procedure with public participation for all. The Administrative Justice Department has confirmed that the EIA Directive has been correctly implemented. There is therefore no need to further adapt the Environment Decision to this. In fact, I would say that this motion supports policy, but then Mrs Meijer has to believe me in this; I do not know what else is needed. Maybe she can take another look at it herself. Mrs Meijer's last motion, on letter X, concerns stakeholders. The motion calls on the government to ensure that stakeholders other than the government or the applicant, such as residents, have as much say as is currently the case in determining what is now the environmental plan. I consider this motion to support policy. I can be brief about this: the Environment Act provides for the same procedure for the environmental plan as for the zoning plan, together with the same possibilities of participation and legal protection. Mr Van Dijk of the SGP also commented on the law versus the AMvB. He joins the water test of the Christian Union and has himself not brought in any other concerns, other than that he ultimately wants to see the total again. Mrs Stienen of D66 has tabled two motions. In her motion on letter Y, she focuses on air quality. It says that air quality is, after all, part of a system review. It's about who's gonna be in charge of that. It is therefore proposed that the government bring the current targets in the AMvBs into line with concentrations that are safe for health and update targets and add new targets on the basis of scientific knowledge. I agree with Mrs Stienen that it is up to the Empire to direct air quality, but I do not agree with the inclusion of the current targets in the AMvBs. The government is committed to further improving air quality, for which the WHO advisory values are indicative. To this extent, I can see the motion as a support for policy, but from the move to a stricter formal standard, the consequences cannot yet be seen. You really need to have a debate on this, so that you can also see the consequences: how much does it cost society to do this? This also applies to the consequences for local authorities and their responsibilities. That's really a major change. Mrs Stienen attaches herself to a careful procedure and order, in which local authorities, the Health Council and the House of Representatives should be able to fulfil their role. That's what I'm attached to. The system is relatively flexible, so that new desired standards can be quickly regulated. There is really no need to wait for an introduction law for that. However, I cannot now tighten up the standards on this issue, so I must discourage the motion as it has now been formulated. In the motion-Steens c.s. On letter Z, the government is asked to provide clear and guiding frameworks in the National Environment Vision for the short and long term for the transitions that we still have to go through. I see this motion as a policy support. The National Environment Vision will indeed be a framework for national policy. For the physical environment we have recently presented building blocks for the future vision. The framework can be built on this basis. If we want to conclude debates in the Second and First Chambers, we can do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u184	I would just like to say a few words to clarify the motion on air quality. It doesn't say "higher standards" anywhere. Could the Minister live with the insertion "in due course"? The operative part is, then, that the government invites the current targets in the AMvBs to be brought into line with concentrations in the long term... In this way we take the Minister's remark that at the moment this can lead to far-reaching consequences that we cannot yet see. It is important for our group to look at this very carefully in the long term, also with regard to what the Health Council report is going to bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u185	I can understand very well that D66 wants to send a signal that it is ultimately necessary to pursue a further ambition in terms of air quality and healthy concentrations. The motion states: "The government requests that the current targets in the AMvBs be brought into line with concentrations that are safe for health." There is already a discussion on what concentrations they are. Is that the 20, is that the 40, or is that maybe even up there? I was born in the seventies. I've inhaled a lot more than that. We have, of course, done a great deal in recent years. So what exactly is that? The operative part also states that "and, on the basis of scientific insights, to update the targets', whereas that is, of course, a political decision. Science provides data to have a political discussion about whether or not it is being taken over. That's the complexity of this. That is why I say that we are making policy efforts to further improve air quality, for which we also think the WHO advisory values are indicative. We can support that as a cabinet. This is also seen as support for policy. However, I cannot take a step further by promising in advance that we will update the targets on the basis of scientific knowledge. That is and remains a political balance. I hope Mrs Stienen understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u186	Not quite. But we disagree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u187	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Dan heb ik nog een motie van de VVD liggen.]] I would like to begin by saying that I have indeed not given sufficient consideration to the politically-administratively innovative forms. I've neglected my own party the most. I'm seen to be independent here. Mrs Klip-Martin had indeed asked about the relationship with metropolis regions or with other forms that will now be tried out. We will indeed have to ensure that it remains consistent, that there will be no other decision-making germia that does not fit at all in the house we are building. The house of environmental law also looks very much like the house of Thorbecke. It also makes sense in that house of Thorbecke. We will have to weigh that against each other every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u188	That's right. On the other hand, of course, you want to create forms of cooperation where there is dynamism and that result. You can see that in some places. You want that, of course, without creating a new series of Wgr-plus regions. After all, we have just removed it with great difficulty. But you can also imagine that you don't want to nip all kinds of successful partnerships in the bud. I am not interested in having an answer to it now, but I can only imagine that you are giving that governance-like aspect a place in a paragraph or in a chapter in the National Environment vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u189	That's right, the initiatives that are there. The Environmental Act must also be adaptive to changes in the system. A clear house also fits a law that clearly indicates who is going to talk about what. You have to choose the best way to tackle your societal challenge. Sometimes it is an individual municipality, sometimes it is a group of municipalities that do something cross-border. This simply requires coordination of policies and coordination between decisions and actual actions. Article 2.2 of the Environmental Act also provides that public authorities take account of each other's tasks and powers and can also exercise them together. This offers the opportunity to organise, as Van Zwol says, a non-hierarchical collaboration. There is that possibility. By the time these different models take shape, they can get a place through article 2.2. Mrs Klip, like everyone else, has expressed her concerns about the Digital System. We should always be on top of it. It is very important not to see this as an implementation issue, but simply to monitor it politically well. Finally, the monitoring itself. Mrs Klip asks for a good zero measurement to be carried out and to inform the Chamber. I see the motion on this as a policy support. A zero measurement is really needed as a good basis for further monitoring. I think it's a good time for this coming year. I am prepared to carry out that zero measurement and to inform the Chamber. We will include the results of the monitor in the implementation programme. There was someone asking if that doesn't cost a lot more money. I think it was Mrs Vos, but it could have been Mrs Meijer. Of course, we have monitoring programmes for other components, such as the Infrastructure and Space Structure Vision. Eventually, you can shift the budgets if you move from that vision to the National Environment Vision. Should it be necessary, we will have to add money. In my view, I have answered all the questions from the second term and have commented on all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-7.u191	I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the ten motions tabled.
