ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister, as well as the members and guests in the public gallery. We have two maiden speeches today. I therefore propose that the order of the speakers be as follows: we start with Wiersma, then Özdil, and then we finish the list as it was established. So after the two maiden speeches, I can suspend for the congratulations. If you all agree, this is how we're gonna do it. I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak from this place for the first time today, a special moment. When I was allowed to taste a blue Monday at work as a seasonal worker picking vegetables in Friesland about fifteen years ago, I could not have imagined that I would ever be allowed to give my maiden speech on this subject as a MP. "A blue Monday," because I certainly can't call myself a season worker. Because I haven't lasted a long time, I'm telling you the truth. By the way, I blame that on the fact that the place where I did the work, Sexbierum, had me somewhat wrong: not sex, beer and rum but a lot of aubergine, peppers and cucumber. Of course, it could be because of my not too strong system, who knows. But seriously, it has given me deep respect for the hard work done by these people. Seasonal work means that the heavy work must be done at a high pace in a short time and in sometimes spicy weather conditions. Perhaps it was part of the incentive to continue my school career, which had led me to the Mavo until then. So I became a stacker, not from baking tomatoes but from diplomas. Through the Mavo, the Havo and the HBO I came to the university, with the result that I have been allowed to stand here today, after the past few years I have been working for future generations. I come to the content of this debate. Employers who wish to have so-called third-country nationals working on seasonal work in their companies are faced with a significant paper mill. The mandatory application procedure for multiple permits is a time-consuming task. Today we are discussing the implementation of a European directive to reduce this regulatory burden. The VVD always thinks that's a good thing. The VVD also considers it important that the rules on the protection of seasonal workers should be aligned in this Directive. Although this directive has been adopted in Europe and must therefore be implemented, the VVD is always critical of the content of directives. It is good to note that there is no national headline on these European agreements. However, the Netherlands has made a comment on the directive. The VVD also wholeheartedly agrees with that. The European Directive proposes that seasonal workers who have already been admitted in the previous five years should be entitled to more flexible admission. The VVD agrees with the cabinet that we should support this relaxation in a limited way. I would like to hear from the Minister how we ensure that we implement this section as little as possible. In response to the Council of State, the Minister states that a general binding rule lays down the sectors in which seasonal work occurs. Is the Chamber still seeing this prescription? And what further changes from the legislative proposal will be included in the scheme? That's what I'm asking the Minister. The VVD is in favour of seasonal work close to home. We prefer to see seasonal work being picked up by Dutch or workers from EU Member States. This directive is in line with that principle as far as the VVD is concerned. It also offers new grounds for refusing seasonal workers, for example if the employer does not pay taxes and social security contributions or if the company does not actually carry out economic activities. It also strengthens the possibility for the IND to assess whether there is a risk of illegal migration or continued illegal residence. That is something the VVD would like to support wholeheartedly. Mr President, I shall conclude. This bill brings about unequal situations and protects seasonal workers. In my opinion, this is in the interests of the seasonal worker as close to home as possible. Important work, seasonal work, and not to mention for many young people, as for me at the time, a first introduction to the labour market. And that, Mr President, that broad theme of the labour market and future generations, is something I could talk to you about for hours. And no, Mr. Chairman, we're not gonna do that anymore. But I look forward, all the more so, to the coming years and the debates on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u3	Thank you very much, and that your season in the House of Representatives may last only a long time. We're gonna congratulate you later. First, we are going to listen to Mr Özdil on behalf of GroenLinks. He's also making his maiden speech. So there are no interruptions. I wish him well, too. After his speech, I'll suspend the meeting for congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u4	Mr. Chairman. Before I begin my first speech in the Lower House of the States General, a word of gratitude towards the facilities services. From the Registry to catering to security, I have rarely experienced such professional, hardworking and also cheerful people. Partly because of their support I quickly felt very at home here. Thank you! Mr President, on a point of order. I'll start with a quote. Don't worry. It's just in Dutch. "Material security requires social justice. Our society is a household in which we all bear burdens according to capacity. The community has a duty to ensure that people can also live with insufficient income. This solidarity does not end at the borders of a country." The words I just said were taken from the heart of GroenLinks, my party. But the quote is not from GroenLinks. No, it's from the party program of the VVD. Although the party program of the 1971 VVD, but still. The fact that it is now unthinkable that this quote could come from a right-wing party illustrates, in my opinion, that something has gone quite wrong with the political direction of our country in recent years. Under the loud cheering of our right-wing friends, we have, step by step, thrown our way of life, rooted in our Western, European ideals, into the trash. What ideals are those? Solidarity: that if you become unemployed, you and your children will still have the opportunity to move forward. Freedom: including the freedom to migrate and that doesn't count your origins but your future. Equality: including the principle of equal pay for equal work. The fact that I am standing here proves that we used to make policies in the Netherlands based on that Western, European civilisation. My grandpa is "excuse me" the term "literally born in poop," in a house of dried manure and cement. When he came to the Netherlands as a foreign employee in the 1960s, he came for a real job. He didn't come here to push all kinds of tricks on local workers. It was equal pay for equal work. Thanks to that wonderful system, I'm standing here today. I call it the Dutch dream, the Dutch dream: if you were born for a dime, you can end up as a national descendant. In the meantime, the Dutch dream has unfortunately disappeared for more and more people in our country and sometimes even become a nightmare. That is the result of policy. Our Western European civilization was no longer worth defending for our right-wing friends because they chose to run after another ideology. That ideology is regressive. "Regressive" is a nice word for "retardous" by the way. This retarded ideology also has a god. It is the god of the almighty, all-knowing free market, who says, "Fuck you. It's every man for himself if you're unlucky. There is no society where we take care of each other. No, there is only the sacred market." You used to get ahead in the Netherlands when you had work, however low-paid, but nowadays there are so many hard-working Dutch people who still have trouble getting around. For fifteen years the purchasing power of the middle class and the working class has stagnated. In many cases, it is even worse, not to mention those of the unemployed and chronically ill. That's not the country I grew up in. Why is that? Well, because, for example, at some point with the best intentions, we have allowed foreign workers to work with all kinds of tricks in our country, under the Dutch minimum wage. In construction, horticulture and even in care there are plenty of examples. This development is neither in the interests of our Dutch workers nor in the interests of foreign workers. The omniscient, almighty god of the free market does not like the idea that the government should counter unfair competition, displacement, in other words "the race down." But I do like that idea, because I really like the Netherlands and the rest of the world. I would like to point out to my colleagues in the Chamber, whom I appreciate very much, that the implementation of the directive we are talking about is an important step against the displacement of our Dutch workers and at the same time an important step in the interests of foreign seasonal workers who want to come to work in our country. Even though it has not been possible in practice since 2011 for seasonal workers from outside the EU to be admitted, this directive will provide more legal guidance, including new conditions of admission to combat the exploitation of seasonal workers across the EU, which will make it less competitive for our own workers. Let me give you some examples. Foreign workers who do not pay taxes and contributions are no longer allowed to work in our country. Licences may be refused if the employer has previously been penalised for undeclared work. There will be a single permit for seasonal work between 90 days and 24 weeks to be provided by the IND, which will also decide on it. These are all new measures that will protect working people. My questions to the Minister, thanking him for his clear and informative explanatory statement, are as follows. Can the government indicate the date of entry into force of the law? The directive states that the end date is 30 September 2016, so last year. Now only work in the agricultural and horticultural sectors has been identified as seasonal work, but also in other sectors there is a growing demand for seasonal workers from outside the EU. The Minister writes that the social partners will be consulted. My question is: how exactly? Do the trade unions have a decisive voice in this? If not, why not? How will the Minister ensure that the new directive is maintained? Is he satisfied with the way the inspection works in that area? Does he agree that the SZW, Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate has too little capacity to control the working conditions of Dutch workers, let alone those of migrant workers from within or outside the EU? Is the government prepared to close possible loopholes in this law in consultation with the social partners? For example, employers who have been fined before, but then set up a new company. Is the Minister prepared to state at the time of implementation that no deviation from the working country principle is possible? Seasonal workers from outside the EU could be posted in theory. Let me give you an example. A Spanish strawberry grower hires 50 seasonal workers from Mali for nine months. During this period, the Spanish company takes a job to pick strawberries in the Netherlands for three months. There would then be no tax and premium in the Netherlands for the seasonal workers from Mali, but in Spain. They are therefore cheaper than comparable Dutch employees. How's the minister gonna close this hole in the law? There are Members of Parliament, especially the Members of Parliament, who are sitting on the very right side of this Chamber, who are anti-Europe. They won't know for themselves, but that also makes them anti-Netherlands. The peace, stability and prosperity brought us by European cooperation are unique in history. Does that mean that there is nothing wrong with the way the European Union has developed? Of course not, but to throw the child away with the bath water is, to say the least, very unwise. The argument for a nexit is not based on patriotism for the Netherlands. On the contrary, wanting to leave Europe is based on resentment. It's the equivalent of putting on your middle finger if you're right or wrong about something. Our friends on the very right side of this house have transformed the proverbial middle finger into a political vision. I also address the Dutch with a migration background that raises the middle finger to their own country, the Netherlands, by, for example, taking thousands of people into the streets in the Netherlands to support a dictatorial populist from their grandfather's country. Middle-finger policy on any side is not the solution. That is precisely why GroenLinks is not anti-EU, but 'other EU'. This directive brings us closer to another and better EU. Finally. I started my speech with a VVD quote from the seventies. It wouldn't be fair for me to leave our social-democratic friends unnamed. In the 1970s, before they released their ideological feathers, they had beautiful election slogans such as "you can't live in bullshit." That was about affordable housing. In the same spirit, I extend my hand to all parties in this Chamber, from left to right. I look forward to fighting with everyone in all openness, no matter how hard it may be, and always fighting the content for the people of our country. Zzp'ers, SMEs, students, the sick, the unemployed and workers are all entitled to real political and real jobs, because let's face it: you can't work in bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u5	Thank you very much and congratulations on your maiden speech. I'm going to suspend the meeting for a short time. I would ask the two gentlemen who made their maiden speech to come forward and receive the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u6	We are now going to listen to Mr De Jong on behalf of the PVV. I would like to thank Members for their collegiality and their willingness to allow some changes in the order of the list of speakers so that we could keep the two maiden speeches one after the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate the two gentlemen who have just made their maiden speech. It is always extremely honorable; I wish them every success in this house. Today, we are discussing an EU directive which is dedicated to the European immigration agenda, which is so popular with Europhils, and which should make it easier for seasonal workers from outside the EU to enter. The Netherlands was against this directive, but is still going to implement it because of the threat of fines, which run in the millions, by unelected EU bureaucrats. This EU directive will ensure that the Netherlands gives away a piece of its own control. This EU directive will ensure that Member States bend slaves to the EU. Because that's what you do with implementing a directive that you don't support. Of course, there will be politicians in this Chamber who will say what the Netherlands is allowed to do with this directive from the European Union, the amount of space left by the Netherlands, and that we are not obliged to do anything. I've heard that before in debates. But we should not take into account at all what we can and cannot do from the European Commission, what we can and what we cannot do from the EU. That's up to us. We should not allow our policy space to be determined by the European Commission. And that is exactly what we do when we introduce this directive. This piece must be withdrawn, for reasons of principle, because of our own control, but also because the proposal is not good. Given the reason why the EU wants this, we should certainly not do it. A 2010 European Commission document setting out the background to this directive states that EU economies would have a structural need for seasonal work, that there would be a structural need for "low-skilled and low-skilled workers." There is also a "more permanent need for unskilled labour." That's crazy, isn't it? Mrs Malmström also underlined this in her 2014 press release when presenting this directive. The aim is therefore to bring in more low-skilled, unskilled immigrants from outside the EU. In the light of the directive, the hairs of well-thought-out people can only stand up. We are talking about the development of a European immigration policy and the facilitation of temporary migration. We do not want any more seasonal workers from outside the EU. We do not want it to be easier to come to Europe from outside the EU. We do not want to participate in a single European immigration policy. The PVV does not cooperate in facilitating even more immigration, directly or through other Member States, to the Netherlands from, for example, Africa. We are not participating in the unification of the European immigration system. The Netherlands should be about its own rules, not the EU. So we're asking the Minister to take this bill off the table. I also ask him not to be afraid, not to shudder at the moment when there is a threat letter from the European Commission in which she tells us a fine of at least EUR 3.7 million. I ask the Minister to stand his back and stand for our country and his pride, so not to bow to a threat of a million-dollar fine by the European Commission. Tell the European Commission that she can go down with her fines. I hope the Minister can promise this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u8	Thank you very much. This wasn't an official maiden speech, but if I've been properly informed, it was your first speech in this house in your new era.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u9	No, it was last week, but every moment I'm allowed to stand here is equally honorable. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u10	Then we share that honor with you. But Mrs Schouten is allowed to place an interruption. That was actually the reason for my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u11	Welcome back to this house. That's the first thing. I also have a question about what Mr De Jong is asking about the rules that he believes will apply if this directive is adopted. Whether Europe should interfere with this is something that can be said about it, but does Mr De Jong recognise that there is already a system of employment permits? If he is acting against this, why has he not tabled an amendment to simply delete the possibility of employment permits? If we do not implement this directive, it does not mean that an African worker cannot come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u12	What we have done has always been very clear. We do not want immigration from outside the EU, for example seasonal workers. That is what the PVV has always put forward in a ready-to-use manner. We have tabled motions on this matter. In fact, I recall that in my opinion 2014 a motion was tabled in which the PVV says that no seasonal workers from outside the EU should enter at all. The PVV is clear on what she finds. She's always felt the same way. That is why I am asking the Minister today to take this whole story off the table. Why? You can always discuss the content. That's all fine and good, but here's what's important. The Netherlands says first: we are against it, we do not want it, we are not going to vote for it, we are going to vote against it. That's what the Netherlands did. Then, as a minister, when you receive a threatening letter from the European Commission, 'we must implement the directive anyway; Chamber, if we do not do this very quickly, we will get a fine from the European Commission, so be warned'... bowing down is a disgrace. That is the point I want to make here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u13	That is clear, but I would like to make the point that, once again, with the removal of this directive, I do not think that the need for a directive should give rise to the illusion that employment permits cannot be issued, because that is still possible. If Mr De Jong wants to change that, he will have to delete a law or four. Then he should suggest it now, or maybe file that motion again, if he really thinks so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u14	Our point is that we have to deal with it ourselves. I've "hammed" the subject. It was on a hammer list. Probably didn't mean to discuss it at all. I took it off, and that's kind of crazy. Why? Because it gives away a piece of your policy freedom to the European Commission. By implementing this law, you simply say what the European Commission is about and what part of the freedom of policy we, the Netherlands, give away. We should never want that. That's our story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u15	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u16	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the two speakers. They were beautiful, personal maiden speeches, and that makes it extra special. Actually, that's the only time you can do that, and you've done it beautifully; congratulations. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is not just about the directive, but also about the major problems of labour migration. It is about exploitation and repression of people. People inside and outside the European Union who work in the Netherlands under terrible conditions, in the truck, in the Westland, in the port and in construction. In the Netherlands, we have built up a good system of social security in a number of decades: protection and rules for safe and healthy working. A system built on values of equal work and equal pay. This system is under pressure from employers inside and outside the Netherlands who want to sit in front of a dime in the first place and move with people as if it were a commodity. Luckily, a lot has happened lately. Minister Asscher has put labour migration and exploitation on the agenda and has taken measures: to tackle bogus constructions, to evade collective agreements and to eliminate crooked employment agencies. But we're not there yet. Yesterday, today and tomorrow, Dutch people are being displaced on the construction site and on the road by cheap forces from other countries. This is not the fault of migrant workers, but of employers and employers who want to make money with shady constructions over people's backs. We must continue to fight this in the Netherlands and in Europe. Over the next few weeks, we will be talking a lot in this Chamber about the forthcoming Brexit, about the ugly sides of Europe and about the lack of a social Europe. It is the conviction of the Labour Party that this Europe must really change. There are two engines for discontent in Europe. These are labour migration, which leads to displacement and pressure on wages and working conditions, and tax avoidance by multinationals. As a result, people are turning their backs on Europe and raising its borders. We will therefore have to make Europe work for the hard-working people. We must not turn away from Europe, but we must change Europe. Equal pay for equal work must be the basis. We must go for a social Europe with fair taxes for all. The same applies to large companies. That way the big boys can no longer look the other way when people are exploited. In my contribution to this debate, I will now concentrate on the legislative proposal and on possible measures against the undesirable effects of labour migration. The bill provides that third-country nationals can apply directly for a seasonal employment permit in the Netherlands. The Netherlands has already exceeded the implementation deadline. As has already been said, it runs the risk of imposing a fine of some 3.7 million. The Netherlands is therefore risking a considerable fine, whereas the bill is actually a dead letter, because there are still too many jobseekers in the EU, very harshly said. My question to the Minister is: is it true that this law will in practice be a dead letter for the Netherlands because, unfortunately, there are still many jobseekers in the EU? We can turn the discontent over and in Europe to profit for ordinary people if we are really going to curb labour migration. How are the minister and the cabinet gonna do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u17	In the honourable Member's speech, it is about the EU and not so much about Europe, I think. I assume that Europe is fantastic as a whole of all kinds of countries, which can even work very well together in some areas, but that the EU is the big problem. I think that is what the debate should be about. However, the main problem I have with Mr Van Dijk's speech is something else. Mr Van Dijk does not point out that we should actually say that the European Commission can go down with this 3.7 million fine and that it can get back and forth with its fines. Why would we tremble when there's a letter like that? Why don't we just talk about whether we're implementing something or not? Why should we agree to something Mr Van Dijk himself says is a dead letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u18	Mr De Jong is talking about "wabbering for the fine," but I am not shivering for a fine. My speech is about a different Europe. My speech is about another European Union, which is about people and where equal pay for equal work is the basis, so that there is no competition between people or over the backs of people. That can really change the essence of the European Union, something that is desperately needed to restore confidence in a strong social Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u19	Mr. De Jong, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u20	In my view, however, I also heard Mr Van Dijk say in his speech that this proposal would not do anything. Why doesn't he just say: I'm against it, because we should take care of these things ourselves, whatever the content of that? We should not do this under pressure from the European Commission. That is why we are discussing this today. Minister Asscher has sent a letter to the Chamber stating that we will be fined at least EUR 3.7 million if we do not implement the directive quickly. Why should we listen to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u21	That is not the essence of the debate. This directive simply needs to be implemented. We have to implement it and we have just left it too long. Period. My speech is about the next steps. We must, and can, broaden this debate. If we really change something in Europe, we can regain confidence in a strong and social Europe. That is my appeal, and that is at the heart of my speech. I will continue my speech. It is good that the Dutch cabinet gives priority to the revision of the Detaching Directive in Europe, but what is the state of play? When can we expect results? In order to preserve jobs and prevent displacement, we will have to pursue a very restrictive policy towards people from outside the EU. How does the Minister see this? In an article by the daily newspaper of 21 February last year, a lot of people work here from outside the EU through constructions. Does the Minister know this article? Can the Minister give an idea of how many people without a permit, but on a detour, for example through a posting in another EU country, are still working here? What action does the Minister intend to take to ensure that the restrictive admission policy of the Foreign Labour Act is not undermined by European constructions? I'm rounding up. I await the Minister's answers with interest, but for the Labour Party, there must always be equal pay for equal work throughout the European Union. This is the beginning of another Europe, a Europe of people and for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u22	I too find it striking that Mr Gijs van Dijk is going to vote in favour of this law, while everything shows that he does not agree at all. The same applies to the cabinet, but we will hear about it later. Mr Gijs van Dijk had a very critical story about labour migration, with which I agree to a large extent. Does he share my view that, if you really want to limit that, you should work with work permits for workers from Eastern Europe? Does he agree with me that you're really gonna do something about the displacement he's so angry about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u23	Here too, we need to separate two things from each other. Firstly, we must introduce the directive, which has remained too long. Period. Secondly, we really need to do a job, and that is what the Labour Party really thinks of a Europe in which we have fair rules on working and taxation. This is essential if we are to restore the confidence of people here in the Netherlands in a strong, social European Union. I don't see that. The introduction of work permits means that you also need to increase borders in the Netherlands. I am opting for a different approach, namely agreements in Europe, so that all countries will soon have to comply with, for example, the rules we apply in the Netherlands on equal pay for equal work. That still requires a lot of debate. I said in my speech that we could use the Brexit to make it a hard point from Europe in the negotiations to really change this. This really creates the change we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u24	That speech is familiar to me from Mr Asscher, when he was still a list leader. Does Mr Gijs van Dijk dare to acknowledge that what he argues is all paper? He talks about a fair playing field, equal rules, social conditions for all workers in Europe. Those are wonderful words, of course, but he knows that in practice he said that at the beginning of his speech, too, employers in the Netherlands who simply want to have the cheapest workers from the cheapest countries are doing the same. In other words, what Mr Gijs van Dijk argues is mainly paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u25	No, absolutely not. I would point out that there is still a lack in Europe of agreements, real agreements, about a social Europe. They start on paper, but must then be carried out when it comes to equal pay for equal work. They must apply to all countries. Due to uneven policies, poor agreements and countries that do not yet meet them, countries and companies still see the possibility of avoiding all kinds of things and using the scope in the regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u26	I call Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP. For the people at home who are wondering why the first name is mentioned in some Members and not in others, I think this is a nice illustration of why it is sometimes important to mention the first name: then confusion is avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u27	Mr. Chairman. All due respect to Mr. Gijs van Dijk, but he's not family.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u28	Even in that case, we would.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u29	That's right. Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Wiersma and Mr Özdil. I congratulate Mr Wiersma on his experience in seasonal work. I'm sure not all colleagues can say that. I am sure he can use that experience with his social affairs spokesman; there is no doubt about that. With Mr Özdil, I enjoyed his sharp input towards the right-wing parties. That promises something with the formation; we wait it out. This law provides for an improvement in conditions for seasonal workers from outside the EU. That is good in itself, but nevertheless this law is controversial as far as we are concerned, because it sends the wrong signal. The labour market is already under pressure. Cheap workers from within the EU, for example from Romania and Bulgaria, are already creating false competition, as they put downward pressure on wages and working conditions. Equalising the rules for workers from outside the EU could further increase this pressure. We shouldn't want that. I ask the government if it shares that view. Moreover, this is not a European issue but a national issue. The government agrees with this and has therefore voted against the directive. The government has also voted against because there are enough people in the Netherlands who can do the work. That too is a legitimate argument. However, we are now being forced to implement the directive. Does the government share the view that the fact that we have to implement a directive that the government does not even want, once again increases the annoyance over Brussels' power? I'd like to get a reaction to that. The minister said otherwise we'd have to pay a fine. Can the Minister explain that? After all, there is no such fine at the moment. How exactly would that work? I often hear talk about fines, but it is not so common at all that they are actually handed out. It is claimed that the legislative amendment has virtually no impact because, because of unemployment in the Netherlands and the enlargement of the EU, no employment permits have been issued for seasonal workers from third countries since 2011. There is already enough cheap labour available. But what if the economy attracts or a new cabinet wants to open up the boundaries for cheap labour further? That is not unthinkable with parties like D66 and the VVD in the formation. This could increase the influx of low-cost workers from outside the EU, resulting in new pressures on wages and working conditions. Does the government recognize this? That is why I am considering tabling a motion on a so-called zero quota, in which de facto workers are no longer allowed from outside the EU. I can tell you that the government itself wanted to do this, but that it withdrew this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u30	The government has withdrawn it because it says that we would not implement in accordance with the agreement. Mr Jasper van Dijk is therefore going to table an amendment which the government has already told him in advance that it does not comply with the rules. You can want all kinds of things with Europe, but submit something that is contrary to the rules is not in line with the tradition of the SP either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u31	I think Mr Jasper van Dijk said that he intended to table a motion. There is also an amendment. Perhaps he can indicate whether a distinction should be made between them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u32	That's correct, Mr. Chairman. It's not about an amendment. It's a motion in this case. A motion is a ruling from the Chamber. I am very curious how, for example, a party like D66 will vote on this. I want the Chamber to rule on this. I find this all the more interesting because the government has already indicated that it preferred it. For whatever reason, the government has failed to do so, because of rules or agreements. I'm very curious about that. I'd like to start that debate. I also think that this kind of thing is being considered far too quickly for Brussels. We need to address the debate on labour migration, which is a major problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u33	No misunderstanding: my group will simply vote against this motion because it does not appear to be in accordance with the agreement made. It is a choice by Mr Van Dijk and his right to submit something to the Chamber that the Netherlands, if we followed, would be in breach of an agreement. I sometimes disagree with an increase in the contribution of an association of which I am a member, but rules are rules and appointment is a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u34	Rules are often extremely liquid, especially when they come from Brussels. I am therefore happy to enter into the debate. Why does the amendment only concern the agricultural and horticultural sector and not also, for example, catering and tourism? What are the consequences for employers when their sector is listed? What was their impact on the decision to place only this sector on it? I have made an amendment to apply a heavy veil, so it is called in jargon, an apology if another sector were to be admitted to this law. We want good wages and working conditions for all workers in the Netherlands. We do not want exploitation and false competition from cheap labour from abroad, which is why we are calling for the licensing of workers from Central and Eastern European countries. With these permits, the Netherlands regains control over the influx of foreign workers. This is the best solution against undermining the labour market. It is also undesirable to vote in favour of a directive which deals mainly with matters that we can regulate at national level. The SP will therefore vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u35	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to begin by warmly congratulating Mr Wiersma and Mr Özdil on their diverse maiden speeches. I advise them to have a drink with each other. I think that could help the relationship. Maybe next time we'll get a whole different input from the gentlemen to each other. I look forward to working together. We are talking about a directive to be implemented, where the question is: what exactly are we doing? The cabinet has tried to stop the implementation of this directive for quite a long time. It has also voted against it in Europe, under the heading of subsidiarity: it is a rule that should not necessarily be set at EU level, in an area that can also be left to national authorities. Let me be clear: we share this point of departure. We have talked about lists that are being drawn up in Europe of things that we should not want to deal with from Europe. If a regulation does not add anything, we should not draw it up in a European context as far as we are concerned. In this legislative proposal, the big question is exactly what we are making a change to. Those are the questions I have to the Minister. In fact, the cabinet states that we have already regulated everything in the directive, except for the five-year period, and that this directive does not change anything de facto. Is that right? I'm only gonna ask you one more time. Are we just implementing something that actually exists for a long time and which doesn't add anything? Is it true that we are only doing something because it has been agreed in Europe? Is it true that we are also doing nothing about the abuse of labour migration within the European Union? We are talking about third countries, not about abuse within the European Union. So the question is whether we might improve something in that with the bill or not. And is it true that we are now going to have two types of regimes within the Foreign Labour Act? Is there therefore a route in which an employment permit with a residence permit is arranged, and another route in which these two things simply continue to exist side by side as is the case at present? Why, according to the Cabinet, would this be desirable in this way? The issue of identifying the sectors is also a major question for me. We have now decided that this directive will apply to the agricultural and horticultural sector and not to more sectors. Why only in these sectors? The cabinet says that employment permits have not been issued for people from third countries since 2011. Then I would almost ask: why do we even point out a sector? Apparently, that is what the directive should do. But why only this sector? Suppose a bartender from Ukraine can make mixes in a very special way that no one else in Europe can make like that. Then she gets to work here. Why does it fall under the old regime, namely the path of the employment permit and the residence permit, and does the person who comes to work in horticulture fall under the new regime? I cannot explain that, but perhaps the Minister knows why this is justified. The fact that it has not taken place in recent years cannot be the argument. This has not been the case in the agricultural and horticultural sector since 2011. So I'd like to get an explanation. I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk's amendment. He indicated that the list of sectors is now being drawn up by the social partners. I am happy that this is happening in consultation with the social partners, but I think it is also important that we as a parliament should be involved so that we can see what changes are taking place on that list. I saw it was a weighted front. I don't know if we can do it with an illuminated front. I do not know whether Mr Van Dijk is very close to that. I think it is important that we look at the way in which we can keep a finger on the wrist, so I support the amendment at least. Finally. If we decide not to implement this directive here and say that we are not going to do it, because Europe does not need to do so, can this directive have a direct effect? Is that right? I think that is why we are having this debate. Should we now say here that we are not going to implement this directive, is this directive still in force in the Netherlands, because it has been agreed at European level, should this also come to court? It is perhaps important for us to take another shot at this, because otherwise it will happen to the left or to the right. I am also saying this to Mr De Jong, who assumes that we do not need a route at all to declare this scheme applicable if we do not do so. I doubt that. Perhaps the Minister could shed some light on that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u36	All I suppose is that this cabinet bows to the European Commission as soon as it sends a threat letter with a fine. That's why we're implementing this. My question to Mrs Schouten is whether she and her group also see risks in implementing this directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u37	The only point that I have seen is the five-year regime. This means that some kind of administrative action must be taken if you are going to work as a seasonal worker in the Netherlands within five years from a third country. Then it should be checked whether or not your data is available here. I asked a question about that. Is that a big risk? Well, I don't think that's the biggest risk there is in the debate on freedom of movement. The cabinet states that we have implemented everything in this directive for a long time. In that sense, the situation will not change from now on. It is more the question of principle that I share with Mr De Jong whether Europe should go about this or not. Can't we do that ourselves as a country? We have already done so, because we have largely implemented it. In my view, therefore, the substantive risk does not increase, except for the five-year period. But that's more of an administrative act. I think it is more of a sign or an example of regulation that I do not think should come from Europe, because we can do that very well ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u38	Could the risk not be that, by implementing this directive, we will send the message to the European Commission that we are fine with it? As soon as there are all kinds of seasonal workers from outside the EU going to Spain, for example, we cannot say: hello, we do not like that very much. The Netherlands can no longer do anything about this, because it itself has been in favour of the implementation of this directive. Couldn't that be a big risk? Apart from that, does Mrs Schouten agree that the moment we send such a signal, there is also a great risk that we will give away a piece of our policy freedom to the European Commission? We shouldn't want that, should we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u39	I have seen that the cabinet has also voted against this directive. I'm going to take it up a little bit for the cabinet now, even though that's going to be a bit surprising. That has indicated in Europe that it is against. When there is a majority in Europe, the directive comes back here. That's what's happening now. My question to the cabinet is also whether it will still be in force at the time when we are going to implement it, because there is direct effect. Then you may have symbolically said that you do not agree with it, but then this arrangement will just materially apply. That'll be the difference. I find all sorts of things about that. It is precisely in order to maintain acceptance that we in Europe should be careful to focus on these kinds of issues, but we should not pretend to be giving away all kinds of powers, because we have already implemented these rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u40	We're doing the interruptions in half, so we're going to listen to Mr Van Weyenberg now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u41	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by complimenting Mr Wiersma and Mr Özdil on their maiden speech. I am particularly pleased to be with Mr Wiersma's. In the past, in his role as chairman of FNV Jong, I have been able to fight for the interests of young people and future generations. I look forward to continuing to do so in the coming period, for example in the case of the AOW file. I welcome him to this house. The same applies, of course, to Mr Özdil. I must say that he inspired me with that beautiful quote from the 1971 VVD program. That prompted me to conduct my own historical investigation. For example, in the 1971 action programme of one of the predecessors of GroenLinks, I read that the CPN was in favour of a drastic reduction in expenditure on the EEC, a reduction in retirement age to below 65 years and much more state subsidies for the construction of car parks in large cities. I would like to use that to congratulate Mr Özdil on the progress made in his party's ideas, which was the result of that. So you see that change can also mean progress. That brings me to the directive before us. In 2010 the cabinet wrote in its assessment of the Commission proposal that the direct Dutch interest of this proposal would not be so great. This is also apparent now that we are looking at the implementation. It is legally limited, but the deadline is exceeded. Apart from the fact that I do not think the cabinet was very enthusiastic about this directive, the argument is that a zero quota has been considered, but that the European Commission has said that this would not be the correct interpretation. Can the Minister confirm that? This may also serve to inspire Mr Jasper van Dijk. This Directive concerns only seasonal workers from third countries, i.e. from non-EU countries. If I see correctly in answering the written questions, they have not been available at all since 2011. We are legally putting the points on the i. If it ever happens, then we can fall back on the rules we are now adopting for that. My group supports this implementation. Is an explanation for the fact that there have been no seasonal workers from outside the EU working in the Netherlands since 2011, that there are no applications, or are there applications, but are they rejected? The list of sectors for which people from outside the EU can do seasonal work has been drawn up in consultation with the social partners. The Minister now only does this for agriculture and horticulture. I agree with the questions raised by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Schouten. The documents state that if this list were ever to be extended, it would be done in consultation with the social partners. Do I understand that this is some kind of consultation or consultation, but not some kind of right of veto of the social partners? Apart from the adaptation of the Detachment Directive, I am curious about the situation with regard to freedom of movement. In particular, my group believes that inspection capacity should be increased. If you have any further questions, I have a series of amendments unfortunately rejected by the coalition to prove that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u42	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the Court's first term contribution. The Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u43	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u44	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Wiersma and Mr Özdil on their excellent maiden speeches. I say that not only as a minister but also as a colleague. I enjoyed it. I knew Sexbierum mostly as the birthplace of Auke Bijlsma, a valued colleague in the Amsterdam city council and a beautiful, stubborn, steep Fries, with a great social democratic heart. So that can still be a lot, I repeat Jasper van Dijk. And then Mr Özdil: yes, I do like coming in with a drawn middle finger to everyone around you. I agree with the expectation that it will be very beautiful. May you defend many coalitions in the coming years. Partly on behalf of the Secretary of State for V and J, I would like to thank the Chamber very much for examining this bill, the only one that has slipped through the loopholes of the law and has not been declared controversial. I had another in mind, but that's life sometimes. I think it would be useful, given the Commission's strengthened enforcement policy, to discuss more in a moment. Mr De Jong had questions about this. This Directive simplifies the admission procedure for seasonal workers from outside the European Union. They can thus obtain a single permit for residence and employment. Fortunately, however, this directive does not call for an amendment to the admission policy itself. The Netherlands can and will still decide for itself whether to allow seasonal workers. Therefore, the implementation of this Directive will have no impact in practice. The Netherlands has a restrictive admission policy for low-skilled workers from outside the European Union. The number of seasonal workers in agriculture and horticulture from outside the EU coming to the Netherlands has been zero in recent years and is expected to remain zero. After all, there is sufficient labour supply in the Netherlands for low-skilled labour in the agricultural and horticultural sectors. If that were not the case, there would also be a lot of offers within the European Union. I'm gonna go check on the questions. Mr Wiersma asked whether the renewed authorisation would be implemented as little as possible. Yes, the Cabinet implements the provision on re-admission with the already existing rule in the Foreigner's Act 2000 that data and documents are not required if they can already be obtained from administrations, or if the application has been submitted by a recognised referee. These are data of the foreigner already included in the Basic Registration Persons or in the Policy Administration, including the proof of registration, address details or the copy of the employment contract. The government implements as little as possible. It certainly doesn't have a national head on it. Mr Jasper van Dijk asks how it is possible for us to be forced to implement a directive while we have voted against the directive. This is because directives can be adopted by majority in the European Union. I would rather not have done it here either, not so much because I am concerned about the functioning of the directive, but because it seemed easier for us to deal with it in a different way. That is why I voted against it. Ultimately, implementation has no material effect, because it is our policy not to allow seasonal workers. As an EU Member State, the Netherlands is of course committed to implementing European legislation, but this has no material effect in this case. The Labour Party, through Gijs van Dijk, asks whether the cabinet will ensure that the restrictive policy on the Foreign Labour Act is maintained and not undermined by EU rules. Member States will certainly remain competent to define their own admission policies. That will not change in the future either. As far as I am concerned, it remains a restrictive policy. Mr De Jong of the PVV felt that the directive should not be implemented at all. This is in line with the PVV's view that the Netherlands should leave the European Union. If you are in the European Union, this is part of the agreement that you are implementing directives. In this case, this has no material impact on the Netherlands. Gijs van Dijk and Carola Schouten with her I don't have to mention the first name, because there is only one Schouten, from the Christian Union, asking if the bill is a dead letter. Yes. As long as there is sufficient labour supply within the Netherlands and the rest of the European Union, this has no meaning and we will not allow seasonal workers from outside the European Union. Nor do I see how, although with 27 countries instead of 28, we would not have sufficient labour supply for seasonal work. Mr Özdil asked how unions would be associated with the adjustment of the list of sectors. Through the Labour Foundation, both employers and employees have a say in the decision-making process to expand or adapt the list of sectors. It's still the government's jurisdiction, but they're getting involved. Furthermore, we have been asked why only the agricultural and horticultural sector is involved and what about Mrs Schouten's proverbial Ukrainian barmaid who has a unique skill. By the way, it really stimulates my imagination which would then be that unique skill. In the past, licences have only been applied for for in the agricultural and horticultural sectors, as we only assume for that sector that there is any seasonal work within the meaning of this directive. Where we do know seasons in the Netherlands, seasonal work within the meaning of the directive is actually only known in agriculture and horticulture. No permits have been issued for seasonal work since 2011 because there is a sufficient number of priority offers. Suppose there is an application for that unique Ukrainian bartender and the government based on the Wav would intend to admit that person to the Dutch labour market, then the two regimes still apply side by side instead of the one combined regime, as the directive does not allow that. For seasonal workers who stay less than 90 days, a Schengen visa and an employment permit are required and for seasonal workers who stay longer than 90 days a single permit is required for residence and employment. That difference results from it. There is no direct effect. Applications are rejected because there is sufficient supply. Therefore, applicants cannot rely on the protection of the Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u45	On the point that two different regimes will then arise because we have only designated the agricultural and horticultural sectors, I still have a question. Do we have to designate a sector to implement this directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u46	If I understand correctly, I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u47	Then why the agriculture and horticulture sector? The ratio escapes me, except that employment permits have ever been issued in that sector in the distant past. But that can't be the only justification for just pointing out that sector, can it? Take us into account in what the cabinet's considerations have been on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u48	Of course, the cabinet did not do so on its own, but it did so in consultation with the employers and employees, united in the Foundation of Labour. It makes sense in itself, because when you think of seasonal work, especially in the case of seasonal work, where employment permits have been granted from third countries in a further period of time, you think of the agricultural sector. For the rest, there is no link whatsoever with this directive. So it's obvious. Technically, a sector should be notified on that list after consultation with the Foundation of Labour. That is why the agricultural and horticultural sector has been notified, on the understanding that there is no change in the policy itself and that there is therefore a zero policy. We do not issue employment permits for seasonal work because there is sufficient supply in the Netherlands and within the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u49	Does the Minister agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk and me that if there are any changes to be made at all, we as a parliament must find something of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u50	Certainly, I shall return to his question in a moment, but that is very obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u51	I would like to thank the Minister for the first part of answering the questions. He does go like a raging rage, in the sense of a huge speed train ride. Perhaps in this way the Minister hopes to implement a directive as soon as possible, while he himself states that it will have no consequences. However, I would like to make a comment. Because this minister has not written a letter to the European Commission that they can go down with their fine and that we are not going to implement the directive because we are against it, he sends the signal to the European Commission that she has a position in which she deals with our policy freedom. Does the Minister agree with the implementation of this directive on the so-called structural need for low-skilled and low-skilled workers and a more permanent need for unskilled workers? The Minister can't be serious, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u52	I do not want to give Mr De Jong the feeling that I am answering his questions too quickly, but I am trying to be concise. In general, the Chamber likes that, but if I'm challenged, I'm always willing to have a more extensive exhibition. Under this debate, several speakers, including Mr De Jong, raised the question of how to look at labour migration, within Europe and from outside Europe to Europe, and what that means for the Netherlands. I believe that this is the right way to go along with what Mr Gijs van Dijk said: it is important that we change the European Union in this respect, so that it becomes more just. It is not appropriate that, under the current rules of the Detachment Directive, it is cheaper to hire someone from Central or Eastern Europe for the same work than a Dutchman. However, there is no direct link to this directive, because it concerns the admission of seasonal workers from outside the European Union. Of this, the Netherlands, under the previous cabinet, I believe that the PVV has supported it; that was the case for that cabinet, said: we do not want that anymore. I very much support that, because I think it is important to give people in the Netherlands the opportunity to do that work themselves. Workers sometimes complain that there are no people to be found for work. My message would be that if more money is paid, there will probably be people on the labour market who would like to pick those strawberries. I would therefore only welcome it if there was consensus in the Chamber on this. With regard to the implementation of this directive, Mr Van Weyenberg said strikingly: you are a member of a club, including the rules of the game. If a directive is adopted, directives can be adopted if a majority is in favour, even if you are against them, so implement them in your legislation. That's what we're doing now. The Netherlands did not say: go boom. The Netherlands has said: this means nothing to us; can we not do this more simply, for example by imposing a zero quota, because we do not need seasonal workers? But the European Commission said: no, we would like it to be properly laid down in legislation. That is why we have not reached the deadlines. Actually, the deadline expired in September last year. That is why I informed the Chamber in the letter on the controversial statement that it might be useful, and we do not know exactly how long the formation takes; I can only rely on the amount of cookies that are brought in to implement this now, because we will not be at risk of a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u53	Prevention is better than cure. The Minister could therefore simply send a letter to the Commission stating that he will not pay the fine. In this way, the Minister can give the Chamber the role it deserves: it is the Chamber that deals with when or not it deals with something; it agrees with it or disagrees with it. Then I'll get to the content. It's pretending it doesn't matter, but it's a relief; that's just what it says. I have the following questions for the Minister. Firstly, why is he suffering from this threat from the European Commission and why is he sending such a letter to the Chamber, which makes the Chamber feel obliged to deal with it? Secondly, why does he agree that the European Commission now has an influence on our policy freedom? What could happen? Suppose Spain brings many seasonal workers from outside the European Union to his country. They can end up in the Netherlands as a result of free movement. The Minister can say that he does not need people from outside the EU, for example from Africa, to do seasonal work here, but he cannot prevent that if, for example, Spain brings people to Europe. I'll put it in other words. If the Minister then goes to Spain and says 'you should not have done so', Spain can say: yes, but hello, you have also agreed and implemented this directive nationally. Then the minister won't have a leg to stand on. How can the Minister mean this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u54	I am very pleased with Mr De Jong's second question, because I now understand his concern. This directive does not change that. If that were the case, I will argue later on what I have done to limit this risk that we could get through Spain to our labour market in this way, then this directive will not change it. The Directive is a simplification directive and does not affect national competence to define its own policy on the granting of employment permits. In the Netherlands that is now zero. I don't know how the majority of the House will develop, but I suspect it will remain zero. If there is ever another majority in the Chamber that wants to do this again and wants cheap labour, then national jurisdiction applies and can do it again. I have limited the risk of working in the Netherlands through other countries, and I will talk to the Chamber about this in a moment, but that is not within the scope of this directive. That is why I maintain that this directive does not materially alter the access to the labour market of the Netherlands. We can really agree on that, from the PVV to the Labour Party. Secondly, if there is an agreement at European level that you should implement such a directive in your legislation, then the Netherlands should simply take part in it. After all, we are members of the European Union until the PVV reaches that programme point. Mr De Jong understands that too. As long as you're a member of the club, you stick to the rules. But it doesn't mean anything in this case. I understand Mr De Jong's second concern now. I will deal with this in a manner which I have been able to take in the context of the legislation on the posting of aliens in order to reduce that risk. So I'll get back to you on that. If it's still unclear after that, I'd like to hear it. Mr Özdil asked about the date of introduction. The directive must be implemented as soon as possible, at least before September, in order to comply with the rules of the game. It depends for a while on the treatment in this and in the First Chamber or it succeeds, but that should be possible in itself. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked why no fines have yet been imposed. In fact, the Commission has only recently presented a communication which strengthens the policy of fines on the timely transposition of directives. This means that an intergroup procedure will have to be initiated and a fine will then be imposed if directives are not implemented in time. Therefore, no fines have yet been imposed, but it has been announced that if countries do not implement in time, there will always be an intergroup procedure and a fine will be imposed. I understand that, too. The Netherlands is generally very neat in these things, but there are countries that really leave it on the shelf endlessly. The Netherlands also has an interest in ensuring that, once there is an agreement between the countries of the European Union, everyone abides by it. Mr Van Weyenberg is right that such a zero quota is not enough for implementation. That was our attempt: to reduce administrative burdens and to reduce the burden on the agenda of the House of Representatives. The Commission has indeed confirmed that it does not see this as sufficient implementation. Moreover, such a quota is not contrary to European law. That's a completely different discussion. It seemed as if Mr Van Weyenberg was suggesting this in his interruption. Of course it isn't. The Chamber can make that decision. In fact, there's such a quota. After all, the policy is that we issue zero employment permits. That is why they are no longer requested. It just wasn't enough for implementation. If that had been the case, we would not have had to make that law. That is also the answer to Mr Van Weyenberg's follow-up question. They are no longer being applied for, because they know that we no longer grant them. Mr Özdil, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr De Jong asked how to prevent the free movement of services from circumventing the Dutch labour migration policy. Well, it is true that the free movement of services makes it possible for European companies to temporarily provide a service with their own workers in other Member States, even if those workers come from third countries. However, this possibility of bringing third-country nationals is subject to conditions. For example, the worker must, of course, have a permit to work and reside in the Member State where the employer is established. He has also been working there for some time. He cannot therefore be forwarded to the Netherlands after one day's work. The company that takes the employee must also carry out substantial activities in the country of establishment. So it shouldn't be a P.O. Box company either. In addition, the Foreign Labour Act requires a report to be made to the UWV. And that's new. That condition has been in force since 1 January of this year. These are conditions that I explicitly included in the Decree implementing the Foreign Labour Act last autumn. That possibility arose as a result of the Essent judgment. They were also included in December as a guide for the Inspection SZW in the decision of workers posted to the European Union under the Working Conditions Act. This means that the Inspection SZW now has more tools at inspections to check whether there is a genuine posting. If this is not the case, an employment permit may be required and a fine may be imposed. The Inspection SZW also uses the notifications made at the UWV for its risk analysis. In other words, this comes from the Enforcement Directive. The Netherlands implemented it and made a decision on it. Part of this is that if a company wanted to test such a Spain route, material requirements could be imposed. Employees have been working there for a while, it must not be just a mailbox company and it must be reported to the UWV. This has been mandatory since 1 January. This is completely separate from the directive we are implementing. It is a measure that I have taken, precisely to reduce the risk that several speakers have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u55	I thank the Minister for his clear answers. However, I am not entirely satisfied with this point. If I understand the Minister correctly, he says that it is still possible for the directive to go beyond its objective through posting from third countries, as long as the framework conditions are in place. I do not think this is a satisfactory answer for the people concerned. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether this posting through Spain or another country can be made impossible at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u56	We need to see the law we are dealing with and the situation on the labour market in Europe separately. The law we're treating doesn't change anything. The directive we are discussing does not change anything. There is, however, the following. If one received an employment permit for Spain, a company could, in spite of our decision not to grant employment permits, try to help people here in seasonal work. That is separate from this directive, but it has already been possible to do so. For this reason, in the autumn, I took a more stringent decision on secondment in order to close the gap. Can you ban it altogether and categorially? No, you can't. But you can find the maximum limit. We have used the most recent case law of the European Court of Justice. You are restricting freedom of movement by imposing those three requirements, though you are not restricting free movement itself but its negative effects. Those three requirements are: 1. not send them from Spain after a day; 2. not a P.O. Box company and 3. substantial work in the Netherlands. This is covered by the fourth requirement: reporting to the UWV. The latter is very important. It shows that if you haven't reported it, by definition you're already in violation of our decision and giving the inspection the opportunity. Have there been a lot of reports since January 1st? No. Apparently, this is working. Apparently, there is no such need to meet the requirements either. We have not yet arrived; I will now come to the Posting of Workers Directive itself. The rules of the game can also justify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u57	My concern is that the Minister has no tools to deal with people who want to travel from Spain to the Netherlands. Everything with which the minister comes concerns measures against companies. However, we are concerned with the following. If a company in Spain needs seasonal workers, people from outside the EU will come to Spain. They work for a few days or maybe one day for a Spanish company. Such a Spanish company doesn't throw those people in a corner somewhere with the words: you'll never get out. Such a company doesn't affect what these people do next. It is therefore possible that these people could then freely cross across Europe towards the Netherlands. My question to the Minister is what he can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u58	Again, the reporting requirement also applies to self-employed persons. This also applies to the variant in which people offer themselves as self-employed. Also then you have to sign up and also then the rules apply. So we think that we have cut this as well as we can under European rules. For the rest, if the situation outlined by Mr De Jong were to arise, it would not be altered by this directive. Already, a country, whether it is the Netherlands or Spain, can decide for itself who gets an employment permit from third countries. This is not changed by the implementation of the directive in Dutch law as we are going to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u59	But the Minister agrees with me that there is a relaxation in the directive and that it will therefore be easier for a country such as Spain or any other country in Europe to bring people from outside the EU to the Netherlands? My problem is that the Minister has no solution at all to the fact that people who are going to work in Spain can simply go to the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with me that illegality often starts or can start in legal residence, so that people can cross across Europe legally after they go to Spain? Don't we already have enough problems with illegality in the Netherlands, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u60	The target of Mr De Jong's question is moving further and further. First it would all be because of this directive and we should have written a letter saying: go boom! Then the scenario was: what if Spain, as a result of this directive, wanted to allow more people? I have indicated that this has nothing to do with this directive. Then the question was, what if Spain would do that anyway? I have indicated that we have taken steps to prevent these people from going to work here. What happens when people do that illegally? If people work here illegally, you can impose very heavy fines on the employer. It was €12,000 per person, but now it's €8,000 per person. It's a pretty heavy fine. This applies to the entire chain of employers. The inspection is very keen on that. My argument is that we will remain keen on that. That's important, too. It remains a national competence of the Netherlands to say whether or not we want to. That also means that we will continue to do so. This in itself does not change the rules of the game within Europe. Those rules of the game need to be changed. I think we can agree on that, too, but it is separate from this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u61	The Minister continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u62	This brings me straight to the state of play in the negotiations on the adaptation of the Detachment Directive. I am also saying this in the direction of the D66 Group, because it always says: if there were more capacity for inspection. I'm very curious about the thousands of FTEs that will be joining us soon. But even if that were to happen, you have to change the rules of the game yourself. The Detachment Directive now requires a basic minimum wage. That should be equal pay. The principle of equal pay for equal work must apply throughout Europe. We are in favour of this. We lobby for that, too. I've been working hard on that over the past few years. A number of Council working groups are currently discussing the European Commission's proposal. The European Presidency has made a compromise proposal. At the moment we are looking at whether there is support for this, whereas the European Parliament has just said: it needs to be a little more sharper. I am leaning more towards the position of the European Parliament, but if we can achieve an improvement, I do not intend to let it go. It would be a huge gain if, for example, the definition of equal pay were applied and the remuneration would be equal. The Presidency intends to try to reach a compromise at the June Council. As soon as we know more about this, I will of course share that information with the Chamber. So it's not hopeless, if I may sum it up like that. I think it is important, especially in the context of the Brexit, that we not only care about the UK, trade and the fact that there will be elections, but also realize that Europe itself needs to change. The Brexit also has to do with the discontent about how labour migration is currently developing in the community. I also very much agree with Gijs van Dijk, who says it is not the fault of the migrant worker. The migrant is looking for a better life. That seems to me to be a very human tendency. It is the fault of employers who are taking advantage of the opportunities currently available under European law. The enormous differences in prosperity between countries within the European Union are also being abused. As long as it remains so, there is a kind of business model to take advantage of the poor position of people there and thereby make labour here artificially cheap, which puts pressure on wages and causes displacement. That really has to change. It leads to an understandable repulsion, which is at odds with the European Union itself, because it is a European rule of play. How is the capacity at the Inspection SZW? We have talked about this before in recent years. One has to row with the belts one has. I am very pleased that in recent years, including as a result of the social agreement of 2013, we have been able to increase the inspection of SZW for the new Members of Parliament. There are 35 inspectors who focus on the fight against bogus structures. I have never made a secret of it that, if there could be more financial space, there are signs that spring is on its way there too. It would be very good if there was more capacity, so who knows. This was my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u63	Thank you very much. I'll see if the spokesmen need a second term. I note that there is a need for this. I'm just gonna go down the line. Mr Wiersma waives his second term. Mr Özdil also does not need a second term. Mr De Jong does need a second term. I would ask the Minister to deal with the Jasper van Dijk amendment to item No 2 in his second term. 7. I call Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u64	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister. Unfortunately, we didn't get out. The PVV and the Minister are opposed to each other when it comes to the assessment of the EU directive that is now before us. We believe that it has major consequences, especially for our own freedom of policy. It is up to the Netherlands to decide who it will or will not let in and how it will do so. By implementing this directive, this cabinet sends the signal to the European Commission that it can go over our policy area. We think it is a fundamental point that we should not want. Here's the thing. If the European Commission sends a letter saying that, if we do not implement this directive as the goddamn fool, we will be fined EUR 3.7 million, or perhaps more, then the Minister can put his fists on the table and say that the Commission can go to hell. Finally, I would like to table a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the EU Directive on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as seasonal workers is withdrawn and will not be implemented in any way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to strongly inform the European Commission not to interfere with the Dutch immigration policy and that the Dutch Government does not accept EU fines or the threat thereof in any way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Jong and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34590-8]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Jong and Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34090-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u65	The PVV is also concerned about immigration outside the EU and immigration from Islamic countries. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop immigration from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Jong, Mr Fritsma and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34590-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u66	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is already sufficient work within the Netherlands and the EU to carry out seasonal work;]] [[Whereas low-cost labour from Central and Eastern European countries already contributes to exploitation, unfair competition and undermining the labour market;]] [[considers that this is expected to deteriorate further with the expansion of opportunities for work from outside the EU;]] [[noting that the Government has already attempted to introduce a zero quota in order to ensure that no third-country nationals are admitted to the Netherlands for seasonal work;]] [[calls on the Government to apply a zero quota so that no third-country nationals are admitted to the Netherlands at all for the purpose of carrying out work as seasonal workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that since 2007 work permits have been abolished for workers from Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and since 2012 also for Romania and Bulgaria;]] [[Whereas low-cost labour from these countries contributes to exploitation, unfair competition and undermining the labour market;]] [[calls on the Government to re-introduce work permits for workers from Central and Eastern European countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34090-11]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34090-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u67	I have a question about the amendment tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk. He opts for a weighted front for both Chambers. In general, I would like to look at a front-end procedure, but I think this is a relatively heavy form. Does Mr Van Dijk have any particular reason to choose this route in this case, unlike many other amendments tabled by the SP Group? He seems to want to put some sort of extra exclamation mark behind his amendment. That does not, of course, increase my enthusiasm, so I say honestly. I would like to do this in a uniform manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u68	I have chosen this wording because we want to have as much say in the Chamber as possible. If sectors are added, we need to be able to talk about them as much as possible. I hope for the support of as many colleagues as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u69	Mr. Chairman. I do not have any motions, but I am trying to draw some sort of conclusion from this debate. And that's not easy, I must say. On the one hand, I wonder whether the cabinet has perhaps done something very brilliant by setting as little as possible a directive to implement it. On the other hand, I think: why are we doing this if it is already covered by legislation? I hope the Minister will give his views on this dilemma. I'd have asked for that in the first term. What is his own feeling in the implementation of this directive? The "we're a member of the EU, so we're going to implement this" is a bit of a lean argument to me. I hope the Minister will shed some light on this dilemma. Materially, it doesn't add that much. Moreover, according to the Minister, there is no direct effect either. What does it mean if we don't implement this? Do we not have to implement it in this way, or do we get to do it again? I'd like an insight from the Minister. Finally, the issue of those sectors which may or may not be included on the list. The Minister says that a zero option is not possible. I'd like to get a closer look at that. If we only do it in agriculture and horticulture... The directive clearly states that this must be implemented for sectors where there is seasonal work. That is a bit wider than agriculture and horticulture. Not that I want to do this, but if the Minister wants to implement the directive properly, then he will have to go to other sectors, too, I think. Is this zero option, is it not possible to include sectors if we are already dealing with them at random? In short, I really do have two thoughts and I will go back to my group for our vote on this directive with the Minister's response to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u70	As far as the zero quota is concerned, I would say that I support my motion. Mrs Schouten rightly says that there is a possibility for a country to introduce this. But now to the main line of her speech. Actually, I share it completely. We are actually having a very crazy debate. The key question for all of us is: are we going to support this? At least we are not, but is the Christian Union going to support this if it doesn't make any sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u71	I think I just answered that question when I said that I would return to my group with the Minister's response to my questions. So Mr Van Dijk's question came a little late. I can honestly tell you that I'm dealing with that dilemma. I believe that this dilemma is also present in the cabinet. I see how the cabinet has been constantly clinging to two thoughts about this bill. I have asked a number of questions which I will include in the final weighing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u72	I think the question is right on time. We already know what the cabinet is saying. The cabinet actually agrees with us, the cabinet does not really think it is necessary either, but it is one thing, namely the fine. That fine is hanging over the head of the cabinet. I am the one who says: let us have a real debate on this fine if we have such good arguments as to why this directive should not be introduced as far as we are concerned. The question to Mrs Schouten is: do you dare to do so? That signal gives you with a vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u73	I am very aware of the signals I give with a vote against, but I do not think that the fine is the decisive argument. At least I didn't hear that from the Minister. I would like to know from him how he ultimately sees the weighting between doing something that is nothing material, versus doing something because we are members of the European Union. That may well be a legitimate argument in itself, but how does it weigh up in the whole of the arguments he himself has given to support the fact that what we are doing is actually a little nonsensical? That's what I want to hear from him and then I'm gonna make that weighting myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Van Weyenberg waives his second term. Then we have come to the end of the second term from the Chamber. The Minister has requested a very short suspension. I would ask Members to remain in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u75	Mr. Chairman. First, Jasper van Dijk's amendment. If we are to take it in such a way that it is a question of placing it on the list or removing it in the future, then I have no objection to it and I leave the amendment to the House's opinion. I think it would be fine to use a heavier front. If you were going to introduce it now, we wouldn't make the deadline again. I can see from Jasper van Dijk's facial expression that that was not the intention at all, so I leave the amendment to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u76	Correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u77	Then there is the question of the Christian Union. What's my feeling about that now? I didn't have to. That is why we have asked the Commission whether we cannot do it in another way. The Commission's answer was no. Then the rules of the club apply to us as well. If a directive is adopted, then you implement it, even if it doesn't matter materially for the Netherlands itself. Did we send a signal? Yes, we did, because we voted against the directive to make it clear that we do not need it. That is a very strong signal, but now that there is a directive, I think we should simply implement it properly, unless you think so, and I respect that you should leave the European Union, as the PVV advocates. Then, of course, you don't have to stick to any rule of the game and send "go the tree in" letters all the time, hoping you'll actually get out of it. But as long as you're a member, you stick to the rules and agreements. In this respect, the signal from Jasper van Dijk is more remarkable, because there was a time when the SP said: we must leave the European Union. Now that is true more in the middle. It will then have to be clearly explained what that signal means. Then I'll come to the motions. The motion-De Jong/Fritsma in part No. 8 calls for the Directive not to be implemented. I advise against that motion, because as I just said, with a club, it also means that you stick to the rules of the game. From Mr De Jong's second term, I conclude that the PVV is also a proof of fact in this debate. I have taken the first-term questions very seriously. I explained, with arguments and references, briefly and afterwards, that this implementation does not make a material change in the Dutch competence to determine who is and will not be admitted. I think it is very good for the quality of the debate here, if that is taken into account in the future. Of course, it is entirely up to Mr De Jong to do with it. When he tabled the motion, he again claimed that this directive would stop the Netherlands from dealing with employment permits, but that is the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u78	I am not going to be told by this Minister that I would be factually non-existent. We're not gonna do that. The point is that this Minister does not have the backbone to say to the European Commission: you have sent us a threatening letter with a fine, you can get it back and forth, we are not going to do that, because I, as Minister, do not think that this EU directive is very much a proposal. Meanwhile, in the eyes of the PVV Group, this minister ignores the risk that someone who comes from outside the EU and goes to work in another country can indeed go to illegality and go to the Netherlands. We have a big problem with that. Those are facts that concern us. I am not going to be told by this Minister that we would be factually non-existent. This minister is looking away, and that is a huge scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u79	It doesn't get any better from this interruption at all. The PVV would like us to write to the European Union: go boom. It's possible. You can write that. You can write that every day. That can be written by Mr De Jong himself, fine. However, that does not change so much the fact that we are members of the European Union and are therefore bound by the rules of the game. Mr De Jong should acknowledge on his good days that if you are a member of something, the rules of the game will apply until you leave. That is what the PVV advocates; he wants a nextit. That's very bad for the Netherlands, but that's what she's advocating. It is not fair to say that you can shop, that you can determine whether or not you are part of the European Union. You're either a member of it or you're not a member of it. We are talking about the United Kingdom, which is getting out. The PVV would like the Netherlands to leave the European Union. Until then, you have to abide by the rules of the game that apply to everyone, whether you write angry letters or not. That brings me to the motion in part No. 9, which states that the Netherlands does not accept EU fines. That applies to what I just indicated at the previous motion: if you don't follow the rules, you'll get a fine. We consider this to be very important, including for other countries, so I would advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 10 the government is invited to stop immigration from Islamic countries. This motion seems to me to be contrary to the Dutch Constitution, so I advise against it. The motion in part No. 11 is about the zero quota, the current policy in the Netherlands. I want to take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u80	I'll see if there's any objection to this motion being taken over by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u81	I'd like to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u82	Then there will be a vote on this motion. I will come back to the question of when we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u83	The motion in part No. 12 concerns the re-establishment of employment permits for workers from Central and Eastern European countries. Mr Jasper van Dijk is well aware that this is contrary to European law and that it cannot be done, unless you follow the PVV route and say that we are leaving the European Union. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u84	Because the Minister had proposed to the motion in part No. I assume that he sees this motion as a support for policy and leaves it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u85	Yes, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u86	There is another question from Mr Van Weyenberg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u87	I have a legislative question on the response to Mr Jasper van Dijk's amendment. If I sum up him correctly, the Minister said, if I may say so, that the veil does not relate to what is now in store. If I understand him correctly, the Minister says that the exclusion of agriculture and horticulture, which I believe should also be dealt with by ministerial regulation, does not apply. Did I understand him correctly? That may be Mr Van Dijk's intention, but that is not how I read the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u88	The list now includes agriculture and horticulture. I just discussed with the Christian Union what would happen if you wanted to change that list, expand it and so on. I understand very well that the Chamber will then want to be involved, because this could have consequences. I think that's a logical wish. However, I do not wish to suspend the implementation of this law until we have once again made the addition of agriculture and horticulture to the list, as we have done in consultation with the Labour Foundation, subject to a separate veil. You could say that this legal treatment has done so to an adequate extent. The amendment would then mean that in practice this increased format would apply to any future change. I asked if I could explain it that way. My lawyers think that this is possible, but I would like to see it confirmed, because I would like to know the intention of the author when it comes to recommending the amendment. Then I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u89	Mr Jasper van Dijk has just said that it can be interpreted in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u90	But this isn't a motion, Mr. Chairman, this is a piece of legislation. That is why the legal history is relevant to this; that is, of course, entirely true. But I'm just reading the text of the amendment. It says that the ministerial arrangement to be adopted should be put forward. So my technical question is whether that is true. With the exception of agriculture and horticulture, I assume this should also be done by ministerial arrangement. Is that correct, or is that automatic? And if that is the case, then I must say that I cannot infer from the legal text that this ministerial arrangement should not be put forward here. I'm very much in favour of creative, but I think we should put this in a very pure legal way. The Minister had this checked, but I do need a little more explanation in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u91	Then let's do it all neatly. I will explain in writing before the vote whether the 'Weyenberg concerns' would indeed delay the implementation of this proposal. We would then be very silly, and that cannot be the intention, not even of those who propose to leave the European Union. This would be a strange move. I think it is possible, but before the vote we will take a written reply to Mr Van Weyenberg's question. I assume that the votes on this will be on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u92	The votes are scheduled on Tuesday after the recess, so on 9 May. So the Minister has plenty of time to send that letter to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u93	Let's make it a nice letter, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u94	You will stand by the interrupting microphone, Mr Van Weyenberg. Do you need further explanations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u95	Yes, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. In my view, the question is as follows. Does the exception to the agricultural and horticultural sector still have to go through a separate ministerial arrangement? That's how I understood it. If it's different, I'd like to hear it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u96	The minister's gonna come back to it. Mrs Schouten also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u97	I would once again like to ask you about the direct effect of this directive. If, for example, we decide not to adopt this directive, will it have a direct effect? In my opinion, the Minister said in his first term that he does not think that is the case. I thought that was a little too shaky. So I asked him if he would give me any more certainty about that. My second question concerns the following. The Minister says: if you are a member of the EU, implement guidelines. I think we've been sued for not doing so. So the Netherlands is not so consistent in that. In my view, there is even a case before the Court of Justice by the Netherlands on the driving licence directive. So there is certainly a certain degree of freedom in it. Have all the EU countries actually implemented the directive we are talking about today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u98	I shall begin with the second point. It is of course true; you can choose not to implement guidelines. Then you run the risk of an infraction procedure and possibly a fine. So why would you do that if the equipment doesn't matter? Our argument was correct: it doesn't matter materially, so arrange it in a slightly lighter way, so we don't have to go through the whole legislative process and both chambers don't have to spend their precious time on this. The Commission did not think that was a good idea and wanted it to be implemented in the legislation. As a result, time has passed and we are now running against that deadline. Of course, you can choose not to. Then there will be an intergroup procedure. I do not see exactly what the Netherlands would do with that. If you want to send a signal, you can write a "tree letter" as proposed by Mr De Jong, vote against the Council or do all kinds of other things. But then I would use such a tool for a point where you are physically affected, a point with material consequences for the Netherlands. On Mrs Schouten's first point, my reaction is: no, there is no direct effect. I would also like to work that out with love in the note that I am about to write in response to Mr Van Weyenberg's question. There is no direct effect. This has to do with the fact that we do not issue employment permits and we are at zero. So I cannot answer the question of who would have to rely on that directive. You can rely on the directive by a difference between the procedure after implementation and that of before. However, since there are zero employment permits and, moreover, zero applications, I do not see who would have to rely on the functioning of that directive in Mrs Schouten's case. SZW officials are also entitled to, and need, a May holiday, so we are not going to make an epistle of that letter, but let's just agree that we will also include this point in the letter I already promised in response to Mr Van Weyenberg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u99	We're almost having a surrealist discussion. We are implementing something that will never work because the Netherlands has a zero policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u100	It can work if there is another Chamber majority; certainly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u101	Right! And that's why it has an effect. That was my second point. The Minister is always hiding behind the following reasoning. No one's ever gonna come in here, so who's ever gonna call on it? Let us imagine for once that a majority of the Chamber says: fine, those seasonal workers from third countries can get in. That won't happen right away, but maybe in the long run it will. If there is such a majority, does the directive have direct effect, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u102	I'll check it out for you. It's gonna be so virtual. I'll check it out for you. I mention it in the letter in response to Van Weyenberg's questions. Look, when the majority of the House changes, of course, much more changes. Then this directive and its implementation are the least relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u103	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u104	Mrs Schouten, the Minister has promised that he will come with a letter and that it will come well in time for the votes. You can therefore also consider them in your assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u105	I will, but may I make one final comment, Mr President? In the past, we have also adopted directives which we thought would never work. We simply need to adopt legislation here. That legislation must be correct, it must be true. We need to know what the consequences are. That's my point. I want to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u106	Agreed. I understand that, too. That is why I have explained with passion here today what it is. Only, there were three layers in this debate. The first layer is: does this legislation change anything in practice about the admission of seasonal workers? That's the image that was summoned by the PVV. The answer to that is no. I believe that everyone, apart from Mr De Jong, recognizes that. Nothing changes, because it remains a national competence. Nothing changes, neither for Spain nor the Netherlands. The Netherlands has been choosing not to do it for six years since 2011. As far as I am concerned, that remains the case and I do not see a majority in the Chamber to change it. The second layer is: what does the directive mean at all? That meaning is limited. If you were to issue employment permits, it would mean something. The third layer is: if you think it's bullshit to turn the directive into a law, can you ignore it and say "we don't want to do it"? That is actually about what it means to be a member of the European Union. Shouldn't you be sending out another signal? Shouldn't you be throwing the ass against the crib? Of course, you can always do that. Only would it be my tendency to do so at a point of principle that has great material effects. I will clarify the amendment on the veil and the questions about possible direct effect in the letter before the votes. Because of this layering in the debate, it does indeed have something virtual, but I am the last, the very last, to challenge the Court of Justice's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u107	I'm just making an announcement. I would like to congratulate Mrs Schouten for revealing with this interruption that the Minister's speech is liquid. Because at first he said: it's all or nothing; we're just members of the EU so we need to implement now, that's how the rules work. But because of this interruption he also acknowledged that the choice can be made to protest, to start the debate in Brussels on what is actually the point of a directive. He did not think it was strategically smart to do it with this directive, because it does not mean anything. Fine, that's his right. However, I do think it makes sense to do so with this directive. That is where we differ, without the SP wanting to leave the European Union. The minister suggested for a moment that the SP would have wanted or wanted to. That's not right. We want to grow the EU, for example on this kind of nonsensical directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u108	This is very special. Mr Jasper van Dijk says he would like to congratulate Mrs Schouten for exposing something she did not expose. The rule applies. You can choose not to follow the rule. It is a rule of the game that when a directive is adopted, you implement it. Period. You can also choose not to stick to it. That's not news. There is nothing "liquid" about that either. That's black and white: either you stick to a rule or you don't stick to it. I find a compliment in which you say to a colleague 'what awesome that you reveal something that I already knew before the debate, which I have been confirmed during the debate and which will also apply after the debate', not a compliment but a cat. Although that cat was not meant for Mrs Schouten either, it does not change the unclear position of the SP. Or you say "we'd rather get out of this whole European Union," as the PVV does, if necessary in violation of the interests of a lot of Dutch people. Or you say "we want to change the European Union." If you want that last one, we're in total agreement. Then it is not the best way to avoid implementing a directive that does not propose much further, in order to send out a signal and therefore not sticking to rules. That was my first-term reaction, my second-term response and this interruption. Mr Van Dijk can use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u109	Mr Van Dijk, there is also a debate on Europe this week, so perhaps you can continue the debate there together. If you'd like to make a brief, final comment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u110	I think that's an excellent idea. Maybe we can both sign up as speakers. The Minister is also competent to do so, but he may need to consult with his colleague in Europe. Me too, by the way. It is also here in the tail of the Minister's reply. He said: I do not think this directive is the best way to start the debate on how the European Union works. It's okay, but I think it's okay. We agree that as a country you can choose not to implement a directive and then you can start the debate on it. The rules in the European Union are constantly under discussion. Take, for example, the Stability Pact...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u111	Mr Van Dijk, we are not going to have a whole discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u112	... which is not applied by one Member State but by another. Discussion is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u113	You have difficult and easy rules. You can choose to drive through a red light. That's your choice. That's tricky when a truck just comes crashing, but you can choose. You can also choose not to adhere to the rule that you implement guidelines. That's right, but I don't think that's right. In general, those rules are in everyone's interest, but you can choose to drive through red light. Mr President, you will find that neither of us can get enough of it. The good news is that I have now been invited by the Chamber to participate in the debate on Europe. The bad news is that I am then kept busy doing all kinds of very quiet outgoing lyrics. Nevertheless, I look forward to it. Thank you very much for your hospitality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u114	Thank you very much. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-23.u115	The votes are, as I said, after the recess on Tuesday 9 May. The minister's coming with a letter. Thank you all very much.
