ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-3.u1	I ask you all to stand up. On 26 September last, Rinse Zijlstra, former senator of the Christian Democratic Appèl, died. His political cradle, however, was with the Anti-Revolutionary Party, one of the three parties that joined the CDA in 1980. Mr Zijlstra was a member of the First Chamber from 12 April 1983 to 13 June 1995. From 11 June 1991 he was Vice-President of the First Chamber for four years. Rinse Zijlstra was born on 19 April 1927 in the Frisian Oosterbierum. His father was a farmer and a grain merchant. After passing through the Rijks Hogere Burgerschool in Harlingen, Mr Zijlstra studied economics at the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam. After that, an impressive career developed in agriculture, politics, public administration, wider social and business life and sport. He began in 1954 as deputy secretary of the Dutch Christian Boeren- en Tuindersbond. He later became secretary, secretary-general and chairman from 1963 to 1975. He was also active in the ARP and the CDA. From 1967 to 1971 he had a seat in the Lower House for the ARP. From 1973 to 1977, he was vice-president of the CDA in the run-up to the new party. From 1975 to 1981 he was mayor of Smallingerland. Mr Zijlstra explained the enormous drive to tackle many issues mainly from his youth: he was a child of the Second World War. In an interview with De Telegraaf he told us about this: "The children of the war, of course, could not do what they would normally have done in their youth. After the war, there was no time and money for launderers or doing nice things. Everything was broken. This generation had to deal with it. They're generally hard workers. You can say I've taken a lot of hay on my fork, too. But I never regretted that." His decision not to return there after one period in the Lower House was considered. He said about this in 1993 in an interview: "Police is beautiful, but it limits your horizons. Politics swallows you up. You don't notice that when you're in the middle of it, you think everything is about what's happening to that Binnenhof." However, in 1983 he returned to land politics, now as a member of the First Chamber of the States General. In doing so, the remarkable and exceptional family fact occurred that both Rinse Zijlstra and his nine-year-old brother Jelle Zijlstra.. who was Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance for many years and who from 1966 to 1967 had been Prime Minister.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Where Jelle Zijlstra's career took place almost entirely in politics and then for many years at De Nederlandsche Bank, Rinse sought it, more than in politics mainly in business, especially in farm life. In addition to being a member of the First Chamber, he was foreman of the dairy employers, filled numerous commissariats, but was also, among other things, chairman of the Queen Wilhelmina Fund for Cancer Control and chairman of the Koninklijke Nederlandsche Schaatsenrijders Bond. Mr Zijlstra had appeared in the Lower House as a specialist in the fields of agriculture, development cooperation and economic affairs. In the First Chamber, he was mainly concerned with foreign affairs, particularly European affairs. In 1992, for example, he spoke in the Senate on behalf of his group in the debate on the adoption of the Maastricht Treaty, one of the milestones in the development of the European Union. During the time that Mr Zijlstra was a member of the First Chamber, economic crises and a policy of austerity often caused violent political debates. In the 1980s, CDA party chairman Kaland regularly defyed his party mate and Prime Minister Lubbers. Kaland often thought MPs were too accommodating. However, his characterization of Lower House members as a "vote" was highly critical. Mr Zijlstra later described Kaland's statement as one of his least happy, but he supported his call for broad reflection on the functioning of Parliament and strongly supported dualism in politics. In 1993 he said: "In any case, it is necessary for Parliament to regain its self-respect. The government should be less concerned about the confrontation with the House of Representatives. It is better to take the risk of a legislative proposal being voted down, rather than pre-empting any risk through massages in the inner room, thereby killing the debate in the Chamber." These words have still not lost their topicality. At the farewell of Mr Zijlstra from the First Chamber, the then President of the Chamber, Tjeenk Willink, stressed the ability of Mr Zijlstra to self-relativering. However, he knew boundaries, as Tjeenk Willink pointed out during Mr Zijlstra's contribution to an emotional parliamentary debate on the relationship with Indonesia and on the relationship between generations. "Policy is not just a business approach. Politics is also emotion," the President of the Chamber quoted Mr Zijlstra because he stood up for what he called "the people of my generation who have given their commitment." For his own efforts, Mr Zijlstra was promoted to Commander in the Order of Orange-Nassau in his farewell from the Chamber in 1995. May our respect for his important contributions to our society and parliamentary democracy be to the comfort of his family and all those who were dear to him. I would ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-10-eerstekamer-3.u2	I'm gonna suspend the meeting for a few moments so we can meet the family. I think the suspension will take up to five minutes. Then we'll move on.
