ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State, the MPs and the people in the public gallery. I thought Mr Omtzigt would be the first speaker to speak, but Mr Bashir is already in front of the interrupting microphone. I call Mr Bashir. Mr Bashir, good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u2	Good morning, President, Secretary of State and others. I have a point of order. We have asked a set of factual questions, we have asked a lot of questions. We received and studied the answers yesterday. Turns out what? A large number of questions are not answered. I am very dissatisfied with that. I believe that we can only begin this debate when the Secretary of State has answered all the questions. It concerns, for example, whether there were any warnings reached by the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u3	No, we're not going to go over the questions. What's the point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u4	My point of order is that the Secretary of State must answer all the questions so that we do not have to go into them orally. We want the Secretary of State to check which questions he has not answered and that he answers them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u5	A number of questions have been answered clearly, but also a number of questions have not been answered at all. For example, eight questions have been asked about what the Secretary of State knew and that is completely ignored. I suggest that we start the debate now. We can use a circle to indicate exactly what ten or fifteen questions are involved and ask the Secretary of State to answer them during his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u6	I'm just looking at the Secretary of State to see if that's a real question. Yeah? Then let's just start the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u7	I would like to point out that I do not think it is right that we, as a Chamber, should make sure that factual questions are answered in a time limit, while we gave the Secretary of State a week to reply in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u8	How many questions have been asked? I hear there's 74. I now give Mr Omtzig the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. In 2013 the Broodkamer came. In that Broodkamer all databases of the Netherlands are merged. You can see there what someone's pay is, what someone's pay is, or someone owns a house, and where someone lives. On the basis of that information, the Tax Administration wants to make profiles of people to know whether they are complying with their tax obligations. There's no more fun database to hack, except maybe the electronic patient file, than this database. It contains all information about all Dutch and all Dutch companies. Is it interesting to look inside? Yeah, that's it. In 2004, a Feyenoord soccer player was suspected of a sex crime. 200 cops who had nothing to do with the investigation checked his file. Nothing human is a civil servant, too. So there are a lot of questions about what was going on with the data protection of that data. We are getting a shocking picture from the answer. There were 18 people who were allowed to bring home a flash drive every day, year in, year out, and put data out of the database. Has the Secretary of State recovered the log files and all the data downloaded? Does he know where they are? Hundreds of people had access during that period. LiquidHub says it was an unauditable situation. That means they weren't looking at exactly what was downloaded. Have the login data been found and exactly what data has been looked into? There's talk of data tables, I want to know exactly what data it's about. Could you look into your own tax records? The answer was yes. Could you check your former partner's records, anything that's annoying in divorces? The answer was yes. Did you get a look at your neighbor's records? The answer was yes. Has anyone ever checked whether the people have done that with hundreds of people at once or not? Is that even traceable? This is really a terrible way of dealing with very basic personal data. We've had a week. There were non-auditable situations. Were there eventually audits done in those years? The question is not only whether a manual has been compiled, but also whether there have been annual audits to check whether there has been a check based on the login. Can we see those audits? All kinds of investigations are being announced. I'd like to hear what the task of these investigations is and who they're doing. Let's just say I don't want another Van Brummen investigation here. It must be an independent external research by experts, which will examine how it has been handled. It should also cover the period 2013-2016. The Dutch Data Protection Authority investigates data analytics, but does it also investigate the breeding room? Was there a warning given? Was there a warning given somewhere in that whole time that it wasn't believed, except for LiquidHub's, and that there wasn't logged? Were there, for example, authorisation profiles or was everyone allowed to see everything? I'd like to get a clear answer to this. Have any warnings come up or not? What's done with that? I was just asking about the point of order: have the Secretary of State and the top of the breeding room ever been warned? What's done with that? So do we ultimately know whether data has been lost or not? We also found that nine different companies have worked with two framework contracts. That means that a lot ofzzp'ers or external hired people have been walking around in the breeding room. How many have there been? I'm just asking about the number. In 2015, the Secretary of State wrote that a zero measurement was indeed considered. Turns out he's not here right now. Accenture, however, was paid on the basis of a zero measurement, to see what it was like before and if more was picked up afterwards. How is it that we were told this in 2015? Finally. Yesterday, the Secretary of State said that we should be able to report this internally. Six months ago, he promised the same thing. The internal whistleblower arrangement didn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u11	Is it sharpened now? Why wasn't it done six months ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr. Chairman. This is the fourth time in a few months we've been talking about the IRS. What once began as a well-intentioned reorganisation to make the service of this time, the Tax Administration 2.0, now threatens to turn into a total disaster. We have all seen it come by: 5,000 officials would be replaced by 1,500 fresh new people. A sober arrangement for departure has become a disguised Vulnerable Scheme. The Secretary of State ordered a kitchen and got a shower. Well, it was a cold shower. In short, the whole reorganisation is a mess, a false start, even so false that the committee concludes that the continuity of tax collection might be compromised. Bad news rarely comes alone. The ZEMBLA broadcast showed that there is much more going on: improper management, conflict of interest, fraud in procurement and a breach of the Privacy Act. These accusations were made by whistleblowers in the press. This, of course, speaks volumes about the atmosphere and culture within the service. That should concern the Secretary of State. We knew the Secretary of State wasn't in control, but it was that bad? That must feel terrible, of course. So it's time for action. What do we read in last night's letter? The Secretary of State announces six investigations. When will these investigations be completed? There will be an investigation into the security of personal data by the Dutch Data Protection Authority, but also a wide-ranging own investigation into the same information security. What's the difference? There's gonna be a private investigation into the log and monitor data. There will be an external forensic investigation into the procurement procedure. There's going to be a General Court of Auditors investigation. There's gonna be an employee satisfaction survey. It's all research. And when I ask yesterday for an investigation into the source of all this misery, the gold-plated departure scheme, the Secretary of State says he doesn't want to know, that's not necessary, because we'll never find out. There are six new investigations to announce, but the real investigation: how did this gold-edged departure scheme come about? The Secretary of State doesn't want to do this. I told you, an accident rarely comes alone. Yesterday it also came out that the Tax Administration no longer controls a quarter of the companies and that we are missing billions. The number of book surveys has fallen by 70% in 20 years. Inspectors call it supervision naive and irresponsible. According to the FNV, inspectors even leave massively with a golden handshake because they disagree with horizontal supervision. Is this true? How much revenue is lost in the Netherlands? Are there indeed any inspectors leaving? Is the Secretary of State going to investigate this, too? Is this research gonna be number seven? I'm worried we're gonna throw away the baby with the bathwater. The Tax Administration, the most crucial service of the government, was a good service that worked well. And now it's threatening to derail this whole reorganisation and investment agenda. That is dangerous and irresponsible. I wonder: shouldn't we just stop this whole reorganisation? If we collect less tax or if tax morals no longer exist, we are further away from home. I ask the Secretary of State to reflect on whether we can still stop or lower the investment agenda. Can we suspend the departure scheme and take up recruitment so that we can deal with the reorganisation of the Tax Administration in a responsible way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. Let's get this straight: Tax Department employees who make statements under oath, statements about a reign of terror by the management of the Tax Administration, statements about the top of the Tax Administration that is behind the back of the State Secretary, statements about problems in the security of the data of 11 million Dutch people and 2 million companies, which means there is the risk of identity fraud, and statements about possible fraud in procurement procedures. Again, anonymous employees of the Tax Administration reported to the media. They are employees who apparently do not know themselves within the Tax Administration or, worse, employees who do not feel safe when they express internal criticism. The leaked documents create an image of the Tax Administration which is not only at odds with the image that the Secretary of State has of the service and that he always presents us, but is also frankly frightening. If data has been downloaded from individual taxpayers, the consequences can of course be disastrous. Does the Secretary of State recognize this fact? Can he rule out data being downloaded by unauthorized persons? How's the investigation going? Does the Secretary of State have all the logs from the start of the Brood Room? Have they all been preserved? Can we use this to find out who has been with the data, what has been downloaded and what has been taken? As former professor Leo Stevens said, this cuts me through the soul. That's what it does to me. In recent times, I have been working for a strong tax administration, which is in order, so that entrepreneurs and individuals are properly represented. I've been working for a customer-friendly Tax Service that has and takes time to help people in their tax cases and those companies that try to avoid tax, monitor and handle it properly. Meanwhile, the Tax Administration has unfortunately become an organization where there is a lot of discontent. Employees are leaving the service massively. The Secretary of State is actually standing next to it and looking at it a little bit. He doesn't read the pieces and doesn't know what's going on within the IRS. Yesterday we received a whole set of answers, but unfortunately the Secretary of State did not answer a large part of the important questions, such as the question on data security warnings. Did the Secretary of State know that security wasn't in order? What did the Secretary of State know? When did he know? What has he been reported and what has he heard? What about data security? How were the data archived? How's the log? What's been saved? No information has been given on this. Then there are the malpractices and possible frauds. It is still unclear to me when the investigation announced by the Secretary of State has started and what is the reason for it. Was that the broadcast of ZEMBLA or are there any other issues or signals that led the Secretary of State to start the investigation? I come to the amount of EUR 150 to 250 million. We've received a letter of inquiry stating that 250 million has been saved by the Brood Chamber. Then it turns out that none of that is true at all. At least, there's no basis. We have asked questions about this. Can the Secretary of State provide that support? Saved $250 million for what? Or was there just a terrible lie in the direction of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u14	Chairman. Here we are again. There's trouble again. Now there are serious allegations in the ZEMBLA programme about the procurement at the Tax Office and in particular about security. It concerns the incomplete and inadequate security of the data of all Dutch taxpayers. These serious allegations must, of course, be investigated. A lot of questions are still unanswered. We spoke before the start of the debate on the written questions that have not been answered. In addition, a lot of research is needed. It is good in itself to investigate matters seriously, but I find it extremely unsatisfactory what we know so far and what the Secretary of State can tell us about this. First, the security of the information. The Secretary of State actually says he saw no reason to intervene, but he does have all kinds of investigations done. I have a number of very specific questions. When did a signal first come out that there were problems with the security of our data? Has anything started after the broadcast of ZEMBLA or has it happened before? Have internal signals previously gone to the top of the Tax Administration about the Broodkamer or about the later Data & Analytics department? What did the Secretary of State know at what time? The ADR study comes up with a number of improvement measures which the Secretary of State said were complementary to the basic security that would be in order. Unanswered remains the question of whether our data has been misused. Did people have access to that? The Secretary of State will have an investigation conducted by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. When did this investigation start? Was that following the broadcast of ZEMBLA or following previous signals? Take the security of department passes. That is simply a concrete measure. The documents state that a risk inventory must be made before an application can be made to the Ministry of the Interior for separate access passes for a separate department. These measures were recommended a long time ago. What exactly has been done with all the advice from the Audit Service? Can all employees working in the same building still access the Data & Analytics department? That is the image I get from the pieces or that has been corrected and, if so, by when? Each year a self-evaluation is carried out in connection with the Security Tax Service manual, the Secretary of State writes. The way in which this is being observed is being investigated. What's come out of that? Have there ever been any signals to the top of the IRS or to the Secretary of State that security wasn't in order? For example, I read that databases can still be searched without using pseudonyms. As far as I'm concerned, with every other department in the state government, it's really not possible anymore that, when you start working with data, you can find people's data by name and by name. What's the deal with that? I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. About logging and monitoring, keeping track, the Secretary of State says: there was and is minimally logged. Then what will be and what will not be logged? Is the research being done also about what has happened in recent years and what has gone wrong? For example, I have a whole set of questions, but perhaps the Secretary of State can just start by answering all the factual questions we have asked before. I'm coming up on the tender. Has the investigation already started before the broadcast of ZEMBLA? And what signals have there been within the IRS? What did the Secretary of State know about signals that it didn't go well with the tender? What did the Secretary of State know? What did the top know? The results of the study are due in mid-May. Can't we go any faster? In the broadcast of ZEMBLA it was told that MPs were deliberately put on the wrong foot, and that employees were pressured to share information with them during presentations to MPs that they did not want. The Secretary of State says: I can't imagine. No, I couldn't imagine it either, but the accusation is over. We've been a week. Why doesn't the Secretary of State just say he investigated it and that this isn't true? Or why doesn't he say things did go wrong? I think the Chamber should know that. I can't say much with the statement that the Secretary of State can't imagine it. I can't imagine it either. But I just want to know what happened. Unfortunately, we still have to wait for answers to all these questions, even after we have received the letter. However, the Secretary of State can explain it all now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. The bad news from yesterday was that the answers came again very late. The good news was, this time it was a clear suit. Well, that's not what we've been through. This debate concerns the broadcast of ZEMBLA last Wednesday following announcements by whistleblowers about the progress of the so-called 'Broedkamer' of the Tax Administration. It was in that broadcast about data leaks, a dubious tender and a dictatorial governance culture. The seriousness of these allegations is such that I, too, felt that it would not allow any delay in speaking about it in the Chamber. I therefore supported the request for this debate. This debate is a bit unusual, which, as a rule, is first asked for a letter with text and explanation. That's the proper way of doing things. That letter's here now. I agree with the Secretary of State that it is very painful that in itself loyal and honest staff of the Tax Administration see no other way out than to express their concerns to the makers of ZEMBLA. It is good that the Secretary of State is experiencing this as a sign that people within the Tax Administration do not feel safe and that this problem needs to be addressed, including by setting up an independent hotline and an employee investigation. That is what my first question is about. Setting up a hotline and doing an employee survey; that's all nice, but what really matters is what is then done with the internal signals. How is it ensured that employees will not be affected by the fact that they have been criticized if something is done with these signals? Can the Secretary of State reflect on that? I come to the contents of the letter. As I understand it, the main concerns about data leak protection relate to the period when the Brood Room was launched. Further research is being carried out into the situation during that period, but can the Secretary of State confirm that access to data files for employees was logged and monitored during that period? In other words, is that research that is still being carried out to find out who used what systems during that period? If there is no way to find out, what else can be investigated? Like Mr Omtzigt, I have the question of who is going to carry out this research. Perhaps most shocking in ZEMBLA's broadcast was the quote from the Audit Service's report: to protect against data leaks, access passes, logging and monitoring will be considered, but these measures have not yet been implemented. I now hear this in the letter about additional measures, on top of the Tax Administration Handbook that already existed. Perhaps in the broadcast of ZEMBLA some more context would not have been wrong at this point. Then there's the question of how we're going to proceed. I regard the letter and the answers we have now received as an intermediate position. Some clarification has been given, for which thanks. It is also a good thing that we are discussing this quickly, but there are also important questions, such as the question of how things are going in the procurement process of the project data analytics. It's a good thing that a forensic investigation gets to the bottom of this. There is also insufficient clarity about the risks involved during the start-up phase of the Broodkamer. Here too, the bottom stone must emerge, even if only to learn lessons for the future. In the field of personal data security, too, the Tax Administration should be a role model. I hope that the Secretary of State will agree and take the measures necessary to that end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr. Chairman. We have already discussed in detail the out-of-control arrangements for departure. The Secretary of State has explained in detail that things have happened there that should not have happened and that have also happened to a large extent behind his back. Now, on the occasion of a broadcast by ZEMBLA, the story has been added around a possible data leak and the like at the Broodkamer and the company culture. When I look at it through my eye hairs, one thing comes out of it, and that is that the whole management culture and the way the service operates is in need of drastic improvement. Well, then, you're gonna have to be careful with me. One of the things the Secretary of State should do, in the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, is to take things forward in such a way that both the structure and the culture of the leadership of the service are adapted in such a way that this kind of thing simply cannot be prevented. We are talking here to a large extent about problems that have taken place in the past, under the leadership of a director who has left in the meantime, but this does not alter the fact that further human resources may also be needed. I am sure the Secretary of State will not want to say too much about this, but I would like to say that I encourage the Secretary of State to take all these measures, including in the personal sphere at the top of the service, which are necessary to ensure that this type of practice no longer occurs. Then, of course, the key question remains: has the Secretary of State been in control of his service? That's almost a rhetorical question. The answer to that must be: no. Does that mean the Secretary of State has a problem? Yes, a very big problem and even a very urgent problem. If he doesn't solve that quickly, then he himself is in quite the danger zone, but for the time being I assume that the Secretary of State will take firm, firm and adequate action. It is not a very good sign that, in particular, the question on the part of the Chamber, which the Secretary of State knew and did not know, has not been answered in a sufficiently clear and precise manner. A number of people, including Mr Bashir's little procedural debate, have said very clear things about this. I wholeheartedly agree with that. We're gonna need those answers before we can really reach a verdict. The initiatives taken by the Secretary of State with regard to investigations are excellent, but that does not mean that there is a great rush to do so. I would like to hear what the coherence is about this. When exactly is something coming out? In what way will they be available to the Chamber and in what way will we then have the debate on this, including, of course, the measures we expect the Secretary of State to propose in addition? The hotline is a good initiative. It is also a good thing that the Secretary of State recognises that this business culture cannot and is also counterproductive. I would like to endorse Mr Groot's question: what is going to happen with that? How do we ensure that the good initiative of the hotline does not become a panacea for what we do not want, namely a closed fearful business culture, if I may sum it up like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Chairman. Of course, you want your data to be safe with the Tax Office, because it has a lot of confidential, personal and business sensitive information. If it turns out that security has not been secured or that information has been leaked, confidence in the Tax Administration is at stake. It is normal that people and companies can assume that their data is safe with the government, including the Tax Office, and that privacy is also taken into account. The questions that are raised by taxpayers after the TV broadcast I understand very well, because you do not want there to be any confusion about what happens to your private data. There were serious allegations on the air. The Secretary of State is therefore quite right to state that these signals must be taken very seriously. That is why it is a good thing that the Secretary of State is looking into a number of issues. The Dutch Data Protection Authority will also carry out research. That too is quite right after the allegations in the broadcast. Can the Secretary of State give an indication of when the investigation of the Personal Data Authority is ready? After all, it is important to clarify quickly whether security is completely correct. Previously, security measures at Data & Analytics have been taken in addition to the Information Security Tax Office Handbook. The letter also contains a number of ongoing initiatives to further strengthen security. Can the Secretary of State give you the state of play and a schedule? When are these additional security measures agreed at Data & Analytics? The manual Information Security Tax Administration regularly appears in the documents. That is therefore an important factor. We also have a number of questions about this. Who's gonna test that or test that? Will the Dutch Data Protection Authority also look into this? Who checks whether it is followed and implemented in practice? And how often does that happen? It is indicated that there was and is being logged into the Data & Analytics department. It's about who does when, what someone does and what directories, files and database tables are used. It is also necessary to do so, but how were and are these data subsequently monitored and monitored? You can save them, but if you don't check if there have been violations, then that doesn't work. There is a privacy officer at the Data & Analytics department. In its interim report of March 2016, the ADR (Audit Service Rijk) states that its work has not yet been crystallised. What exactly does that mean and what is the state of play? Let me point out that data security must be in order, that the privacy rules must be properly applied and that all laws and regulations in this area must be complied with by the Tax Administration, but the VVD believes in the method of analysing those data and patterns to detect and tackle fraud. It is therefore necessary for analysts at the Tax Administration to be able to view and use data for data analyses. That must remain possible as far as we are concerned. It is also good to see what an approach like Data & Analytics provides for additional tax revenues. For this you need a good measurement method but also a zero measurement. Is it or is it to come with the new measurement methodology announced by the Secretary of State? It has been said that it would become available in the course of 2017. Could the Secretary of State be a little more specific about the timetable? The broadcast also presents an image of an anxiety culture within the Tax Administration. As far as we're concerned, we can't do that. There should also be no need for employees to walk to the press. There must be a safe environment for employees to report things. It is our request to the State Secretary that all actions relating to the hotline, the management style and the organisational structure be taken forward with the service management.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u18	That brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. A lot of questions have been asked. I would therefore suggest that we suspend for a little longer, so that the Secretary of State is given the opportunity to answer as many questions as possible and preferably as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u19	We will continue the debate on the Tax Administration. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr. Chairman. I'll really try, which I've already tried, to answer all the questions. I've got a couple of cubes. First of all, I would like to make a brief introduction, because a number of general questions have also been asked as to how to proceed. In my second block I go into information security, because that clearly came out as a big point. My third block deals with the procurement and my fourth block deals with the proceeds and the discussions about them. Then I come to my fifth block: culture and management style. My notes probably contain a number of questions that I apparently did not consider to be divisible. I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u21	Are you guys missing something? Yes, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u22	The warnings and information position of the Secretary of State regarding the Broodkamer summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u23	That's part of the information, Mr. Chairman. Of course. I'm gonna get a lot of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u25	Of course. Of course. In which I do not differ from the speakers, the fact is that I found this an extremely unpleasant and painful broadcast. If the Tax Administration has become your project and in all honesty on a daily basis in the meantime also your life is doing the same thing to you when you hear that your son is being bullied in the schoolyard. That's what you're getting at. I think the allegations are serious. Unfortunately, they are not, in all cases, specific enough to indicate very quickly where, how and if we should intervene. It's about things like integrity, information security, style and culture. The most painful point for me was that two speakers have also said that we are getting these signals again via the media. To join my earlier example, you will not be told by your son that he is being bullied in the schoolyard, but by the father of a boyfriend of his. That's not good. In a normal situation, these signals come from the organisation itself, for example via the line, the or, the confidant or internal whistleblowers. It's kind of a law that improvement ideas and warnings within an organization should come from one's own employees. They know most about it, and they are the closest to it. They also have the pride and motivation to do something about it. The distance from the top to the workfloor is apparently again difficult to bridge. That must change, so that the warnings, if any, get there. Nor does the Secretary of State bite; I would just like to say. We've had a few days now. We've been digging in here to check the allegations. This shows that at present there are no acute risks for the files we are talking about, not for the dates and not for the tenders. At the same time, however, we must take these kinds of signals extremely seriously. The strategy I have chosen is as follows. We must seriously dive into it, not only in the present, but also in the past, so that we can see what is or has been going on. As long as we don't have everything on the table, we haven't seen any acute risks or cause. But as long as you're not entirely sure, you have to do the best you can to make sure that it's as safe as possible now. That means that in some cases you have to take action, on top of what you normally think is right and on top of what you normally think is desirable. We shouldn't take any chances if there are serious signals. At the same time, we must do everything we can to give the employees who have now expressed their concerns anonymously and through external experts more clarity about their concerns. I think we should say in that way that we can guarantee this as well as we can now, even if there is no reason to think that there are risks now. But at the same time, from the past, we must make the most of it. Information security deserves priority, but it seems that many Members of Parliament agree with me. Of course, we cannot "make" the data on information security. The Tax Office is one of the parties that keeps the most track of people. In some cases, these are sensitive data. Again: having viewed the current D&A, I don't see any active risk. It is also good to see that in many respects D&A is essentially a department like any other department of the Tax Administration. It is a department that, yes, has access to data and where, as elsewhere in the Tax Office, externals also work, but of course you only have access to the data that you are supposed to work with and not to other data. A person who works in the Tax Administration for sales tax should only see certain data and also someone who works in the collection should only see certain data. The same applies to the Breed Room: if someone is working on a particular module, they only get access to that data. In extreme cases there are exemptions, for example to work with a USB. That's no different from the rest of the IRS. This is being handled very sparingly. At present, there are no exemptions within D&A. With the rest of the Tax Administration, D&A also has in common that it is of course logged. We log who gets which data from which database at what time and what happens with it. We'll log it. That's not the only thing. Security policy shall be reviewed every year in response to the manual. That is just the manual, which certainly also applies to D&A. Compliance shall be assessed each year. This can then be audited by the ADR. Those records shall be kept. The default period is two years, but I'm still searching for how much longer data are still available, because backups are also being made. It certainly doesn't have to stay with those two years, but that's still under investigation. As Mr Omtzigt said, people may indeed encounter their own data. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I They only have access to what is relevant for their work, but they may encounter their own data. That's what the government does. This is often the case with other public services. The difference is that D&A cannot change that data, because there is no reason for the Data and Analytics Department to change data. That is not what we should do in this department either. The data cannot therefore be changed. Mr Van Weyenberg said that the system of pseudonyms has not even been used here. Very little is being done about that. That's not the standard either. It is precisely D&A that has said: since we do not have to impose charges on specific taxpayers and therefore only have to deal with these data in an analytical way, it may be a good idea to use that system of pseudonyms. That's being worked on right now. Well, that's obvious, but that's an extra security requirement. That is not standard at all, but that was done by D&A itself, because that is actually logical and in line with the task of that department. All in all, the department looks in many ways like other departments of the Tax Administration, but there are higher demands instead of lower ones. We will continue to look at this, first of all, of course, at information security in the past. That's "the then." So it's not just about "the now." The Personal Data Authority is doing "it now"; which is looking at the security of D&A at the moment. That is very welcome, because then we will have certainty about it. I have no indication that there are any risks. Nevertheless, the Dutch Data Protection Authority, following signals prior to ZEMBLA, in the swelling of ZEMBLA, thought that it should look at that. That's excellent. She starts next week. That's what she's gonna do. So that's about the now. We ourselves have an obligation to look at it then. Firstly, we need to learn lessons from this, but we also need to find an answer to the question of whether data has been leaked. That is a question that some people in this Chamber have asked very eloquence. That should, of course, bring this investigation up to date. At the same time, this also concerns the Tax Administration as a whole. That is why we also want to look at the application of the manual and security. So we want to look at her not only the manual itself, but also how it is respected. Those are the things we do. I am considering asking the ADR to include an EDP auditor, so that that research is also looked at in an external and independent way. All in all, the idea is to secure as much as possible now, even though there are no signs that something is wrong now. At the same time, we are just going to deepen that past and we want an answer to the question that lives in this Chamber and with me, whether it could have been so that data has been leaked out. I can answer that question in the sense that there has been no basis for suspicion since February 2016. That's when the D&A division started. I do not have any concrete indications about the period before that, but there are signs. That's what I'm gonna go into. We have been asked whether there have been any warnings. I didn't find those warnings in the ADR report. I think that the programme quotes quite incompletely from the ADR report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u26	Mr Van Dijck, I see that you would like to interrupt, but we have just agreed that six issues will be discussed. The Secretary of State is now working on a point that all spokesmen have asked for, namely information security. I assume he's about to wrap that up. Then you will have every opportunity to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u27	We've been asked if there were any warnings. I didn't see those warnings in the ADR report. The ADR report deals with what extra needs to be done. Mrs De Vries has asked questions about this and I will answer them in this small block. The ADR report is generally positive about the data security and awareness there is at this point. It does comment on the additional measures, but does not warn against a data breach. Other possible warnings have been addressed in the documents, for example the warning that would come from LiquidHub. I don't read a warning in there. I sent the piece along and I read the piece myself. So I don't read any warning in that. An important question is, of course, whether there have been internal warnings. In recent days, I have received signals that signals would have been issued at the time. That's how far I'm at. The main point is not whether there were warnings, but whether data could have been leaked. This is about the period prior to the creation of D&A. So that's about the forerunners of the department that's here right now. That's what we need to know. Again, in the last few days, I have received signals that signals would have been given to management at the time. I don't know any signals about data security myself. That wasn't a subject that often came past my table either. So I don't have those signals. I do now have the signal that was warned at the time, but above all I have now learned from the programme that we need to look seriously at what happened during that period and whether it could have been so. For this we have the log data as a source, among other things, but the research needs to go wider. It is also necessary to look at how this was handled and how compliance was carried out. So that has to go a little deeper than just the log data. Mrs De Vries asks how far we are with the measures. In the annex I have sent along six measures which are now in place. The extra security for the data centre is included as well as data classification and compartmentation to make sure that people see as little as possible what they should not see. There are no more USB waivers. All these things are also in the annex. There are also initiatives that need to be implemented this year. One of them is about physical access security. Of course there is physical access security, namely for the Tax Service employees. Only employees can move freely through the offices. But the idea is to make this a special area of work. It's really not true that you can access all the data. You can't do that with D&A. You can only see what you are authorized to do, but D&A has nevertheless taken the initiative to regulate physical access security. This is now the subject of conversation with the person who deals with the state housing within BZK. A number of other initiatives are still under way. They're all in the play with the letter. It's really supposed to do that this year. Mr Omtzigt asked another factual question. He asked how many outsiders there have been in total in the history of the Brudkamer and D&A. The answer is in the order of 150 people. Again, these are all people who not only have to meet the requirements that a normal employee also has to meet, but who also have to meet a number of additional requirements in the documents. These people work under the same regime as the employees of the Tax Administration. This is what I wanted to say about data.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u28	I'm worried about those 150 outsiders. I see a whole laundry list of companies from Capgemini to ItaQ, KZA. That's 150 outsiders out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u29	No, they used to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u30	They've been running around on a staff of 130. So there is also a reasonable trend among those outsiders. They can all print or make a print screen. They might be able to e-mail that data. Okay, then they don't have usb authorization, but they might be able to e-mail or print. They have all been able to see data from taxpayers in broad terms. How sure is this Secretary of State that there is no data breach and that there are no records of others on the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u31	It is not a novelty that there are people working at the Tax Office who are not permanent employees of the service itself. This is also discussed in detail with the Tax Telephone, for example. There are employees on the payroll and there are employees who are not on the payroll, but that should not affect security policy. It's about the employee. Safety is not guaranteed on the premises of a subcontractor or on the area of anyone who is paid for or whatever, but at the level of the employee. Employees, on a permanent basis or not, must comply with those standards. That's everywhere in the Tax Department, including the Tax Phone where you can get information. People who are authorized to access or even change certain data must comply with those requirements, regardless of whose payroll they are on. There's surveillance on that. There's a whole policy for that. That's where the manual serves. So that's not new. In a number of areas of the Tax Administration, it is obvious to work with externals. It's like that at the Tax Phone because of peak and valley seasons. This is the case with Data & Analytics, because it is sometimes about expertise that the Tax Administration itself does not have or about expertise that the Tax Administration only temporarily needs. That's a logical choice. We shouldn't pretend that working with outside experts wouldn't be possible. We simply need to ensure that people who come to contribute to the Tax Administration comply with policies at individual level. That's what we do everywhere in the service. This is not unique at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u32	That is, of course, the case. I believe that government-wide policies are aimed at returning to fewer externals. A third of the staff of D&A is made up of externals and there is also progress among those externals. The risk of leakage is, of course, greater if there is another person every week than if someone is sitting in the same chair for twenty years. The Secretary of State will agree with me, won't he? I asked for the possibility of printing, print screens and e-mails to others in the first term. In this way, leakages can also occur outside the USB policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u33	Let me turn off the question of print screens; I don't have that on the retina. Again, this method is not unique. It is not unique to work with externals within the Tax Office. It is important to realise that everyone working for the Tax Administration has to comply with this policy and that it applies to everyone. So behind organisations can never in any way do anything with that data or get their hands on it. That must not be the case, and we must guarantee it everywhere in the Tax Office. This applies to every department of the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u34	The Secretary of State should clarify and reassure us, but I think he's just creating fog. He's completely unclear about exactly what happened. He can be clear about that, can't he? You have the Brood Room and D&A. The question now is whether everything is logged, even in the times of the Broedkamer. Suppose employees there have seen or downloaded or taken certain data. Is that logged? Is that traceable? I am talking about the period of the Brood Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u35	I have just said that I have been able to determine these days that D&A logs who, when, what data looks at from which source and what happens to that data. Absolute certainty about the past, of course, I can never have. So far, I haven't received any signals that it didn't go well, but now a signal has been sent out in a program. Then I'll have to check it out, won't I? So my answer to Mr Bashir's question is: very good question and let me make that absolutely clear by examining it. This means that we have to dig into the log data from the past and look at how compliance was and whether there are strange patterns in it. Those log data shall be monitored on a daily basis. They're being watched by computers, but they're also being watched by people. I am doing this research precisely to give absolute certainty in response to Mr Bashir's perfectly justified and relevant question. Otherwise, I am talking about something based on knowledge before the broadcast of ZEMBLA. I got a serious signal, and I'm supposed to investigate it, right? That's what you do, isn't it? I haven't thought anything wrong with that so far. I've seen an episode now. We are taking all the signals in this area seriously and we are going to look at this. I shall then give an answer to Mr Bashir's question with great clarity, and I hope that it will be a great deal of certainty by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u36	In my opinion, the Secretary of State means not so much the past from now on, but rather the past of the Broodkamer. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u37	I am referring to the situation for February 2016. The period since that time has been looked at completely, and the people who are responsible for this and who have gone into it together with the top of the Tax Administration say that there is no reason to believe that data has been leaked there. The investigation covers the period before that date. In view of the signals that have been sent, I cannot give an absolute answer. That's what I need to find out. It's a relevant question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u38	Let us then focus in the debate on the part that we do not know. Then we get clarity without the word "past." Then we talk about the Broodkamer and the period before February 2016. What does the Secretary of State know about that? What was logged on to that? Was anyone logged in at all? Or is it true that what is now being claimed is that there was no logging at all? Because then we can't find out if anything's been stolen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u39	The thesis that there would be no logged at all is something I can strongly disprove. That is not correct, but I am standing here to inform the Chamber completely and correctly. This means that I have to check with great precision whether it is possible that parts have not been logged or that something has gone wrong in compliance. Again, that's what I started doing after I got signals from ZEMBLA. It's serious enough, so it needs to be looked at. I think Mr Bashir can expect me to have certainty about this when I reply to him. That's why I'm looking at that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u40	A whole bunch of questions haven't been answered yet. I'll unpack two and then I'll grab a few more. There would be signals that there have been signals to management. Has the Secretary of State found a document somewhere in which the management of the Broodkamer, who is present here, is warned that there are problems with logging, data security and authorization? If so, when was that found? Can we see that? Has the Secretary of State been confronted or does he not know if such a thing exists? My second question follows on from Mr Bashir's question. The Secretary of State says to everyone that he has the log data from February 2016, but that he cannot analyse all of them. I get that. However, has the Secretary of State found log data from 2014 and 2015 showing which data from which database were accessed by whom at what time? That they haven't been analyzed yet, that's what we're still talking about. Does he also have log details of who took whole databases with USB drives, with tax data and other sensitive data? Was there any encryption on that, by the way? Were they still secure? Have any of these two cases been found logs in the last seven days or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u41	I just said that as part of the investigation, I need to see what exactly is logged. It's been logged, but the default retention period is two years. I just said I'm trying to figure out how to expose the data. Backups have been made. I already told you. I have not been able to search the log data from 2014 and 2015. Let's also be careful with that suggestion about entire databases, before we panic all over the Netherlands. Let's actually figure out what might have happened before we put too big words in our mouths. I would like to make that request to Mr Omtzigt. I agree with him on the seriousness of the allegations. I press him to the heart that I want to take a serious look at it. Part of this is the question of which data were logged during that period. How was compliance? How was the relationship there? How did it work? We must draw conclusions from this. Then the question is whether we should use big words or not. However, let us not start with it. Then I come to the question about the internal document. I haven't been briefed at the level of documents. I do not think that a question about documents is the relevant question either. I'm not sending internal documents to anyone either. There are two important questions. First of all, could data have disappeared? I would like to answer that question on the basis of the investigation. Secondly, how do we ensure that warnings come from the workplace through the organisation to the top or to the person with whom they are to come? That's the big question. However, I am not going to dig into all kinds of internal documents. At that level, I have not been informed at all. I received a signal very recently that there would have been signals. That's what I'm calling in here. That gives me a good reason to see exactly what could have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u42	Here we go again, says Mr Van Weyenberg next to me. So there have been signals, but above all we should not know what signals they were, just as we should not have wanted a 'whod unit' to be made of last week after what happened to the redundancy scheme, which caused thousands of people to leave in the wrong way and which, in a number of cases, also received quite a lot of money. I want to know. I ask the Secretary of State a very clear question. Can he indicate before the end of the first term whether there are any documents with warnings in them and will he send them to us? He'll tell us to send us a document that says nothing. It says, by the way, that there is no auditable situation. Well, if there's no auditable situation, it can't be investigated at all if there's a good log. Then I want to know if there are any other documents. Mr President, I would also like to ask you a very serious question: do you want to ensure that the Secretary of State answers the question as to whether documents have been found to warn us of what is going on, so that we have an idea of when these warnings were made and how they were acted on? Furthermore, I have asked which data logs have been recovered in recent weeks. Have the data logs of 2014 and 2015 been found yet? If you come to an organization, you have to deliver it to the Dutch Data Protection Authority within ten minutes, so also within ten minutes to the State Secretary if he asks. Does it say who was able to see what when? That they are not analyzed à la minute for 150 men for two years, I get that, but my question is whether that database has been found.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u43	First of all, the question about 2014 and 2015. I've really answered that. We know the logs are kept for two years. As far as this data is concerned, we're looking at how to get it up the table. The ten minutes that Mr Omtzig has reserved are inadequate. I'm not doing that investigation for nothing. If I knew everything, we wouldn't need that investigation. We need to see how we can get those log data, how complete they are, what's been done with them and what it turns out. That's another solid investigation. Mr Omtzig does not charge me with not having finished that part of the investigation. The specialists need a little more time to expose the data base for that investigation. So the answer is: no, I haven't seen any log data from 2014 and 2015. So I don't know which data logs have been found. Sometimes someone knows they exist, but he doesn't know how to get them up. So the answer to that is no. Then there is the question of the internal document. It's not about whether there are internal documents about anything. It's about whether data could have been leaked. I'll answer that. Once that research has been completed, I would also like to say whether there has been an internal warning, not because it affects the conclusions but because it says something about culture. With regard to an investigation that is still under way, I am not going to share all kinds of intermediate conclusions, things that I do not have completely, things that I cannot see. This starts now. I want to fully inform the Chamber about the whole thing. I do not go in the interim with all kinds of existing or non-existent papers, which I now know nothing about. I'm not gonna do that. That's not orderly either. We shouldn't do that. It is also simply about the safety of employees in the administration. It is about the person who may send mails, documents or whatever and it is also about the person who receives them. This is not the way we deal with the administration. We don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u44	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u45	I am particularly sorry, but if the Secretary of State does send one document which he says 'it was not good enough' and there are other documents which he says 'you will not get', then I think he is very selective about sending documents to the Chamber. So I ask him whether he would like to check, for the second term, whether documents have been found and, if so, when. That would help us. That investigation has not yet started and once again we see a situation in which the Secretary of State says: we are going to do an investigation, so I am not answering. That answer can be given, because the Secretary of State has been informed that there were signals. He can say exactly what they were made of. In 2014, he is allowed to do all forensics, but 2015 is less than two years ago, at least the last eleven months of it. There is therefore a legal retention obligation. Then it should just be possible to ask the Broodkamer if you can have the logs of 2015. In the meantime, are these logs in the possession of the researchers? I'll find out who they are or couldn't be found? Does it say who was there when? If that is not there after a week, I am beginning to worry very deeply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u46	First of all, the reassuring thing: I have been assured that the log data from less than two years ago are in any case available and that it states who at what time withdraws which data from which database and also to some extent what happens with it. That's what I'm assured of, so that data is just safe. It is not excluded at all, let me put it this way that older data are also available with the same precision and the same completeness. That's not out of the question at all. I don't know about that right now. I aim to have it complete, because that makes the investigation easier. As Mr Bashir said, this is the period for the creation of D&A. So it would be nice if the log data were available. That's not out of the question at all, but I can't guarantee it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u48	The document?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u49	You ask so many questions that I don't remember at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u50	I don't know about documents right now. I do not see the added value of that. I can go to the organization asking if there was a document. Maybe there are more documents. Let us just map that out, so that I can at least answer Mr Omtzigt's questions completely. I have committed myself to reply to Mr Omtzigt's question or have been warned on this point. Now, however, questions are being asked at the level of individual documents, at a time when the ZEMBLA broadcast has just been, the investigation has not yet started and I do not yet have the information complete. I think this is a strange way of doing things, because that way I have to give the Chamber fragmentary, incomplete information, which I do not have right now. Maybe the information isn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u51	We're really repeating ourselves right now. We can ask more questions, but then we get the same answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u52	Same non-answers, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u53	There's just a difference of opinion. New questions may be asked. Furthermore, in second term, you will have the space to file motions or whatever. Repeat isn't gonna help. Finally, Mr Omtzigt, I would like to say a word about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u54	In a moment I have three or four questions that should have been answered in this block, but I have not heard the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u55	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u56	I'd say you put them all together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u57	Firstly, send a document and say that there is no warning, while point 10 of March 2015 clearly states that there is an unauditable situation in the careful handling of data. So there is not sufficient attention to security, and I refer to point 10 on page 6 of this report, when it is not said whether there are internal warnings. Sorry, but those internal warnings must be mapped now, otherwise no pieces will be sent while other pieces will not be sent. So I would like to know what they are. You know that I am entitled to this under Article 8.60 of the Constitution, so I expect to have those documents before the end of the first term. Secondly, were there different authorisation profiles for the period 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016? In other words: could everyone reach anywhere or was it neatly segmented so that one could not reach it? Thirdly, the whistleblower arrangement. We were promised that there would be a new arrangement in the autumn. Now the Secretary of State says again that there will be a new arrangement. What exactly happened in the meantime? Fourthly, have any audits been found? When you're logged in, you audit it regularly. Were those audits found in the meantime? Did they happen? Did things get out of there or didn't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u58	Now something wonderful is happening. Now it is said that the Secretary of State has sent a report from a party, LiquidHub, and that he must therefore also send internal documents. I try to serve the Chamber by sending documents that cannot be used internally in an undermining way or whatever. I don't read in number 10 at all that there's going to be an unauditable situation. It doesn't say that. My play doesn't say that at number 10. It states that careful handling of data should be ensured and that adequate attention should be paid to security and an auditable situation. That seems to me to be a very sensible recommendation, but it does not mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr Omtzigt, only on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u60	No, something's coming up. It says, "that there will be an auditable situation." The Secretary of State's only gonna leave out a crucial word. If that situation still needs to arise, then there is no auditable situation at that time. This selective quoting is the vocabulary artist Wiebes. There was no auditable situation and therefore we ask whether the recommendation has been followed. Have any audits been found?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u61	It does not refer to the security and auditable situation, because then the sentence does not work at all. In this way, it will be a pointless debate. I'm sending you information that I think makes sense and what the program is about. What I'm not doing is sending out internal records. It's cabinet policy not to do that. There's a very good reason for that. I would like to inform the Chamber as completely as possible whether anything has been going on here and whether data has been leaked here. In fact, I would like to say whether there were internal warnings, but I am not going, while the investigation has yet to start, to wander around with internal e-mails or whatever. I'm not gonna do that. In audits, I don't know if we're talking about the same thing. Are the logs being audited? That is actually what Mr Omtzigt is asking. It would be worrying if logs were only audited. Logs are under permanent surveillance. There are ICT tools to see if unusual patterns occur. At the same time, there are other ways of looking at how weird things are happening. It's under surveillance. The whole policy is evaluated by self-evaluation according to the manual. The Audit Service can focus its attention on this whole and then audit it. That's how it works. If the specific question is whether this audit has ever focused specifically on this part of the security policy or on this part of the organisation, then I would like to answer it in the second term, but there are quite a few steps in between. Log data is not just for recording. You do something with that, too, and it happens every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u62	There was another question about a whistleblower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u63	Yeah, I thought that was a good question. What has been in my throat for a long time is that it always turns out that employees are very difficult to express their concern in the organisation. I speak not only for myself, but also for Mr Omtzigt. This is really a concern we share. I said in the debate that we should look at whether we could set up a special confidant for this purpose. Trusted persons are there to a large extent. There are hundreds of reports a year that these trusted people are working on. Nevertheless, we see that there are people who apparently do not believe that this window is trustworthy or insufficient. Something about that. Not a bad word about the trusted people, but it seems that the system is not yet sufficient. The previous dg has thought about this and said: maybe I should just put a call into service with "put it down to me." That resulted in four reports. We are now working in a new way, as is reflected in correspondence. Can we organize something in addition to the system of trusted persons in cooperation with that House for whistleblowers? That independent institute, powered by BZK, is in Utrecht. Perhaps in cooperation with that house something can be created on top of what we already have, because this simply cannot be done. I'm a combination of sad and passionate about this myself. We need to solve this now. The existing network of trusted persons works, but does not capture everything. ZEMBLA proves that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u64	No, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Weyenberg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u65	Then I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u66	You're not the only one. Mr Van Weyenberg has been at the interrupting microphone for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u67	I want to make a point of order. This is exactly how you can avoid answering. If you don't take the questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u68	This is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u70	Then what is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u71	My point of order is this. If the Secretary of State doesn't answer the questions in a block, I'm gonna have to interrupt. If I'm not allowed to ask questions, I can't ask questions about it. I take note of that. At the moment, that is the case on these latter two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u72	You've asked a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u73	That's right, but if there's no answer in the Secretary of State's term, I have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u74	I believe I have answered the questions in writing. The question about trusted persons has been answered with the initiative of the whistleblower's house. There is a rather detailed description of what we are doing at the moment in addition to those who trust us. It seems that Mr Omtzigt did not recognize or accept this as an answer, but that seems to me to be something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u75	I'll start with two unanswered questions. The first was why the access passes are still not arranged, while the report of the Audit Service is in May 2015. Now it's February 2017. I think a year and a half before this is a very long time. I have also asked for the self-assessment of compliance with the Security Tax Service manual that is held every year. What has come out of that, also in view of the ADR check? What does the Secretary of State mean when he writes in his letter that there was a minimum log and is being logged? Let me now turn to my specific question. The Secretary of State keeps saying: I want to check whether or not security has been in order in the past and whether it has been abused. I think both investigations are sensible. I think the whole room thinks it's wise. The third question by Mr Omtzigt and also by me is another one. It's about what happened internally. Has anyone been alerted towards the direction of the IRS and the Secretary of State? Mr Omtzigt was right to say that there was a repetition of this point in view of the Financial Reviews and then the debates on the departure arrangements. Of course, I'm not looking for the names of officials. That is not what Mr Omtzigt is looking for and neither is Mr Bashir. I may not be looking for the concrete documents either, but I want a factual account. I want to know if the summit has been warned. The Secretary of State says he started an investigation earlier than ZEMBLA because there were swims of signals that something was going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u76	That was the Personal Data Authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u77	Sure, but that means there were already concerns about the broadcast of ZEMBLA. The Secretary of State himself has just said: I am getting signals that have been warned in the past towards the summit of the Tax Administration. Well, then it makes sense for the Chamber to ask for that. She does not ask which employee has informed or has been informed. She'd like to know when the IRS has been alerted. Following on from Mr Omtzigt's question, I would ask for a factual account. What documents can be shared, I shall first leave them to the Secretary of State. But if we can't do this, we can never ask for a reconstruction of what happened. That was a debate between the Chamber and the Secretary of State when it came to the departure scheme. I am sorry that it has to be a debate again today. I think it's a very reasonable question. It's not a whodunnit, but the question is how this could have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u78	I'll start with the last one. I'm glad it's not a whodunnit. I'm glad it's not about documents. I see a certain understanding of this by Mr van Weyenberg, who undoubtedly derives from his own broad administrative record. I have already said that I am not only willing and intending to find out whether data may have been leaked, but also whether there has been internal warnings. That is information I would like to share with the Chamber at the end of the investigation, but now I simply do not have enough insight. I have nothing more than signals. I want this watched. I have promised to answer that question as soon as I have the answer and that is as soon as that investigation has been made. That's not something that takes years. I hope to be able to report on this in the next six months. I'd like it done by now. Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Omtzigt also receive an answer to that question, but I am not going to come up with ad hoc answers based on information that I do not have or do not have at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u79	That is precisely why the Chamber and the Secretary of State disagree at the moment. We want to know what happened. An internal investigation into security, of course! But that is something other than answering the question of whether there has been an internal warning. I'm asking for a factual account. I believe that this is a separate investigation and is about something other than questions about security data, for example. Questions to this effect must also be examined. Were all the security records okay? What happened to those login records? Has it been taken advantage of? Did people run off with data? All this needs to be investigated. I await the results of that. They are all serious allegations, but first the facts must be put on the table. However, the question of what signals have been given internally can quickly be investigated by the Secretary of State himself. Hopefully we won't need a committee of wise guys for that this time. A factual account of this can simply be sent to the Chamber by the Secretary of State within a few weeks. That is my specific request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u80	This is very much in line with the commitment I have just made. I'm in the middle of an internal investigation. It examines not only whether data may have been leaked, but also whether there has been any warning. I don't need a committee of wise men for that. I don't need a covert language for it either. I think that is an orderly request from the Chamber for information. I intend to find out, and I have just said that I hope to be able to answer that in the six-month report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u81	I have the impression that we're going in circles, Mr Van Weyenberg. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u82	Well, chairman, I see some movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u83	This is the answer and I have heard the question before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u84	Mr President, this is about the right of the Chamber to know what happened. At least now the Secretary of State says he wants to know. My point is that I simply want to know this quickly; there should be no misunderstanding about that. I mean, this has to be possible in three weeks, right? In three weeks, you have to be able to know if there's been any warning in the organization?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u85	I actually want that information today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u86	I should like to know today; Mr Bashir is right. But I'm looking for a way. I find this a different question to the question of whether the data has been misused. I think this can just be sent to the Chamber within three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u87	I don't have that insurance. According to Mr Omtzigt, the previous request could be accepted within ten minutes. I have no good experience with three-week promises from Mr Van Weyenberg either. I undertake him to consider not only whether data may have disappeared, but also whether there has been internal warnings. I do that in that investigation, and I will come back to that in the six-month report. I have no indication that I can safely commit to getting that done sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u88	I'm not gonna settle for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u89	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u90	Last week, we debated eight hours of documents that the Secretary of State, the head of the Tax Administration, did not want to read. Now he himself tells us that he knows that there were signs of internal warnings. So signals have come about signals. My question is simply: what is the information the Secretary of State has and can he share it with the Chamber? I don't want any pieces, and I don't need names, but I want to know what that information is. What were the signals? I think the Secretary of State can just share that information with the Chamber now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u91	So this is the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u92	Okay, here's the deal. I have very recently received signals that signals would have been given at the time. That's really all I know. This needs to be further investigated. What are we talking about? What were those signals about? What do you mean, signals? What are we talking about? Is that complete? That's exactly what I'm trying to figure out, because I don't know more than this one sentence. Seriously: this is what I know! This is just something that's just being taken into account in that little internal investigation. When that's done, we'll know the answer. I will reply to Mr Bashir, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u93	These are questions that I asked in the first term. I regret that I now have to use my interruption to ask for this. So, if I understand correctly, an official said to the Secretary of State that there were signs that signals had been received. Period. That's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u94	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u95	And then the Secretary of State didn't ask for it? Then he went to this debate without having asked? He didn't ask what the signals were, what was discussed, what happened? There hasn't been a request at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u96	If I had everything completely, I'd be able to share it with the Chamber. But it's not complete. It is quite clear that at the moment we do not have the information needed to answer this question in an orderly, complete and correct manner, unlike what I just did. Mr President, I can try to make it all up here, but that doesn't help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u97	In my last interruption, I simply asked a number of questions, Mr President. Is it true that the Secretary of State didn't ask you about this? The Secretary of State can answer that question with a yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u98	The Secretary of State has asked whether we know enough about this to inform me, and then the Chamber completely and correctly. The answer to that was: certainly not. So that must be part of the investigation, and it is. That is what is being looked at and, in the end, there will be an answer to the question of whether there has been a warning. I can only repeat this, because that is all I know about it, and that is all I know about the people who are involved in answering questions from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u99	History is now repeating itself, but the Secretary of State is not getting rid of every debate with this ostrich policy. Last week we had a debate and then the Secretary of State said: I take the signals seriously and I jump right on top of that. Then it was about the departure schedule. During the general financial considerations it was also about signals and now it is again about signals. There are signals about signals. But we, as the Chamber, as the auditor of this Secretary of State, do not feel that these signals really are going to land with the Secretary of State and certainly not in this Chamber. The Secretary of State throws up a little ball about signals, but he doesn't say what those signals were about. That's what I want to know. We want to know if those signals were about a leak. Do we read in the newspaper next week that the data of ten million taxpayers are on the street? Is that the signal the Secretary of State got? What was that signal about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u100	I didn't get a signal. I just got the signal that there would have been signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u101	About?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u102	That's a good question. We're gonna have to go after that. This is about a period of the Brood Room. But in all honesty, that broadcast was now a week ago and not everything has been sorted out. The priority has also clearly been to ensure that the regulations are in place at the moment and that no data disappears. Additional measures have also been taken to ensure this and to ensure that the Netherlands is able to guarantee that the Tax Administration is currently handling the data properly. All those other things we figure out, but we all know that doesn't go one, two, three. At this table, we have also seen departments taking even longer to get data on the table. I am investigating this and I hope to be able to give a clear answer in the six-month report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u103	That too has been said a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u104	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u105	However, the question is what that signal was about, the signal that there was a signal. What's there been a signal about? That there is a USB stick in the Netherlands wandering around with the personal data of all taxpayers? Is that the signal? We would like to know what the risk is, what the signal was and what the danger is that all the data will be on the streets. That's what we'd like to know. Apparently, there's been a signal, and so the Secretary of State knows how urgent that was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u106	I think Mr Van Dijck is now dredging up the research assignment. Not only does he want to know this, but all his colleagues want to know this, and I want to know this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u107	I suggest that you continue with the following topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u108	We're working on the access passes. I don't know if the planning has deviated. This is an initiative and is now working to bring security to an even higher level than the standard in the rest of the service. We have been asked exactly what the ADR has achieved in terms of results. I think I have made a habit of sending ADR reports to the Chamber by default. I will see whether the answer is in there or whether another comment has been made on the ADR. We have been asked what is meant by minimally logged. I have to admit, I don't know the answer to this. I myself asked this question on the basis of a concept. I think it is a very good question from Mr Van Weyenberg what that means. I'll get back to you on that. I hope that I have also answered Mr Van Dijck's question as to the difference between the investigations. With that, I'd like to close the issue of information security until we finish the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u109	The Secretary of State announces several investigations. I think we all want it. There is a difference of understanding about how quickly something can be investigated, by who and how exactly. I can imagine that it might be wise to clarify very clearly what the Secretary of State is doing to investigate precisely by whom and within what period and how the independence of that piece of research is guaranteed. Is it perhaps wise that the Secretary of State informs us of this in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u110	I was just talking about data security. The Personal Data Authority is an external party. He's looking at it now. He chooses her own pace. I can't control her. I can't commit a deadline to that. She sets her own deadlines. He's looking at the security of the D&A department right now. She does so on the occasion of the ZEMBLA broadcast, but she is on alert just before the broadcast, because we then received questions from the broadcaster who gave us an indication that such a broadcast could be received. So the reason for this is indeed the ZEMBLA broadcast. Then there are internal investigations. I just mentioned one of them. Mr Van Weyenberg also referred to this. That's the period of the Brood Room, so for the creation of D&A. He looks at it then, preferably on the basis of detailed logs and so on. It's being carried out internally. Then there is an investigation into the application of the security policy in general Tax Administrationwide. It is not true that the ZEMBLA broadcast gave indications that something Tax administration is not on the table, but I think that we should take signals about data and data integrity so seriously that we are going a step further. My commitment has been that I will try to have as much as possible complete in the six-month report. A number of things are ready in the middle of May. I will come to the tender block later, but I think these three should be one end at the time of the six-month report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u111	This is a list of several investigations carried out by different authorities with different timelines. In that, the signals about warnings for us as a Chamber are probably the most relevant administratively, in the sense of: are the signals actually coming through? Every time we do so, we remain unclear as to who is investigating it and at what time it is coming to us. A statement such as "I expect to have some sort of data on that" does not reassure me very much. I would prefer to have a precise written description of who is investigating something within what period and with what result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u112	I don't find that command description a problem. It was my intention to send them along with me. I don't know if that worked out in the end. As far as that period is concerned, I'm trying to get that half-yearly report, but there are some things you don't know. How long should we search for the correct files? How many people need to be interviewed? I'm holding a bit of a swing there, but precisely because I want to give the full answer. The results are coming up, but I'm holding a certain amount of slack in the planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u113	The question is whether the contract and who executes the contract are also shared with the Chamber in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u114	I do not think there is any objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u115	Okay. Then I would suggest that you complete this section. You will have the opportunity to interrupt, Mr Omtzigt. I don't know where you are right now, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u116	I'm at the tender block now. Less questions have been asked about that. I need to be able to do that faster. I would like to define what the procurement document is really about. Contracting entities are a necessary basic condition of a public organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u117	Before you go any further, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u118	Last Wednesday, the Chamber asked for a factual account, which would address the question of when a warning had been given. Now we still have no idea when there's been a warning. We're gonna end up in a circle. Why isn't that story there? Why has the piece "has the Secretary of State been previously informed about a security leak" not been discussed at all in the last half hour, while several spokesmen have asked for it? For the sake of clarity, I'll tell you why I'm asking. Experts tell me you're legally punishable if you get multiple signals that data security is out of order and doesn't act on it. Then it's not just about internal problems, then you can even be prosecuted. I think that's pretty obvious with a database like that. It is therefore not strange that the Chamber, through Mr Grashoff, should ask who is conducting the investigation. Because if there are possible criminal offences to be dealt with, it's a bit clumsy when that happens internally. Furthermore, the list of issued warnings was requested a week ago. It also asked whether the Secretary of State had been informed of possible problems in the privacy and security of the Tax Office's data, specifically those of the Broodkamer and Data & Analytics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u119	We are going back to the discussion that has just been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u120	No, I wasn't informed about any security breaches at Data & Analytics. I do not have a list of warnings, but part of the investigation is to see if there has been any warning. If criminal acts are to be dealt with, that is of course a completely different story. Offences are not dealt with by the Tax Office itself. But this speech by Mr Omtzigt proves that, when it comes to such large matters, you must first have the facts in order before you can make all kinds of statements about them. That's important. We didn't complete the image, and I didn't. It is important to have the facts straight before we make all kinds of statements about these major allegations and about these potentially serious consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u121	That's right. That is why we had asked for that story, a story that is not there yet. The Secretary of State says he hasn't been informed about leaks at Data & Analytics. But I asked a question about privacy and security issues because if there were any leaks, we don't know exactly what happened, including the period of the Broedkamer. Has the State Secretary ever had any signals about that in the last two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u122	With the hand on my heart: I don't remember any of that. It's also a subject that really isn't standard on my table. If I had had any signals that, in Mr Omtzigt's words, there would have been security problems, I would probably have been stabbed by a wasp. I don't know anything about that. But I am curious about what would have been reported to me retroactively; I am also looking at that. But in all honesty, data leaks, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u123	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u124	Again, this proves that we need to know what we're talking about before we talk. Procurement is not a metier that is without concern, but it is usually about the procurement procedure or the procurement method. That's not the point. The allegations relate to integrity. That's a big accusation, which scares me. That also requires first to know what you are talking about, because it is serious matters and possibly people. That's why we're dealing with forensics here. So this is not about procurement procedures, but about integrity. I really intend not to make any judgment as to what might be going on here, as long as I do not know the outcome of the forensic investigation. That forensics is estimated for mid-May. The people who are going to do so have indicated that this is feasible. Mr Van Weyenberg asked: what did the Secretary of State know about invitations to tender that did not go well? Let us first establish whether something did not go well before we talk about it at all. There are all kinds of indications that things have been done in any case in order in the procedure. I have been informed about a number of invitations to tender and, on the basis of this, I have ensured that the law, the procedure and so on have been followed. But I haven't been briefed on integrity issues. Let's see if there's anything really going on before we put these words in our mouths. Before you know it, in this room, we are implicitly accusing people of something that is not established at all. I want to be careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u125	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. But my question was whether the Secretary of State has heard about these kinds of signals. I also ask that because I make it clear from the documents that things had apparently already started. I assume the Secretary of State has been informed of this for the ZEMBLA broadcast. That's why. I am not saying this because I think there is something, but because I have the indication that the Secretary of State, or at least the Tax Office, has taken action before the ZEMBLA broadcast and apparently had reason to do so. That was the background to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u126	Clear. Before the ZEMBLA broadcast, questions were asked to the department. Things were sorted out then and many of the signals from the broadcast, not all but a lot, were put on my table shortly before, because the preparations were in progress and because the questions asked by the organisations gave rise to suspicions. But that's what I'm tying to the broadcast. I think Mr Van Weyenberg and I understand each other on this point. I'm getting on the proceeds. Maybe I should say something about that, because there are questions about zero measurements and so on. Mr Van Weyenberg is concerned that we may have been fooled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u127	That was about what was said on the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u128	Oh, I thought I heard Mr Van Weyenberg on that, but I don't want to put anything in his mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u129	Mr Van Weyenberg can rectify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u130	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. That was because in the ZEMBLA broadcast it was said that MPs were misled by pressured employees. I think that is such a serious allegation that I hope the Secretary of State will clarify that today. The written documents merely state that the Secretary of State cannot imagine that. I couldn't imagine it either, but that's precisely why I think the accusation is particularly serious, and that's precisely why I think it deserves a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u131	The question is perfectly clear; there is no reproach whatsoever on the question. I myself called for quantification at the start of the Investment Agenda. The tendency is to start all nice projects, but then you make one big circus of things that can eventually become hobby projects. I think it is absolutely necessary to quantify at every stage of these sub-projects. Otherwise you can never make a choice between big and small, between important and unimportant or between urgent and non-urgent. Otherwise there is no report to me, so I don't know whether we're achieving our goals or the Chamber. If we say that there is an audit number, a figure tested by Oliver Wyman, of an improved compliance deficit of 750 million, every time the House asks how that is going. That means we need quantification. Otherwise, we don't need project control, because then we don't know if we're steering on the target. Moreover, with regard to the ITI project, the General Court has said that the hardness of this kind of numbers is necessary, because you need to be able to show what you are doing. There is a system and projects are going through it. It starts at the lab. In the lab it is an estimate and after the pilot it is, as the specialists call it, an arithmetic result of an ex ante measurement and an ex post measurement. After the implementation, that number becomes even sharper, but as I wrote in the pieces in October, you can never determine the final effect of a project very precisely. But it is important that we quantify as much as possible in the corridor there. In July I mentioned numbers that I got fresh from the Brood Room based on tests of D&A back then. As an appendix to the half-yearly report in October, I gave a kind of provisional update of those figures in the report on the Investment Agenda. In that piece there is an extensive anthology of the uncertainties surrounding those numbers, but the main point is that this measurement method should be more objective. That is also my question to Mr Van Weyenberg. We simply need to be able to talk about a method of measurement. I have mentioned all this in that document, so that we can look at the benefits of a project much more objectively. So they were based on those measurements in the Broodkamer, but they are poorly reproducible; that is not guaranteed in every project in the same way. It is therefore also difficult for the General Court to establish whether these estimates are correct. So we need to get to that objective measurement method. I have already had oral contact with the Court of Auditors on this matter. I, as well as them, wanted to avoid an ITI comment. That report actually said that you said you would collect extra tax revenue, but it never came to be certain that it was successful. I spoke to the Court of Auditors at that time about this more objective method of recording it. Does this mean that there hasn't been zero measurements and that kind of thing? No, of course not. Because how did the Brood Room or later make D&A an estimate of the potential benefits and the ex ante potential benefits of a project? They do that, of course, by looking before and after. They look at different things: they look at the number of employees working on something, they look at the so-called hit rate. They're looking at how much is being picked up at a check before and after the pilot. They also look at the treatment time. All in all, they are looking at what this project could contribute to cost reduction or increase in revenue. They do that through extrapolation. That number is becoming more and more precise, but of course it is always based on a kind of zero measurement. However, the concern I had about this was that it was not traceable enough and objectivable enough. That's just got to be neater, and that's what we're doing. At the same time, the numbers from the time they were based on tests in pilots are poorly reproducible. Honestly, every time I come to the Brood Room, I see passionate professionals who I don't get the impression are lying. My main conclusion is that I find it difficult to go into the knowledge of that time, to assess the past with the method of later. My main conclusion is that that method needs to be objectiveised, and my agreement with the General Court is that they are watching and establishing that this is something with which you can also send final reports to the Chamber. The reporting that I have sent and in which the numbers occur is a kind of concept, a kind of model, that must of course become final, and once we have developed that measurement method, that should form the basis for that reporting. I have the report with me, called "Design for the progress report to the House of Representatives." It says that there are numbers that have not yet been calculated according to that method, but that they will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u132	I think it would be wise for the Court of Auditors to objectify and review this. The accusation in the programme ZEMBLA was that employees had to say things to MPs that they disagreed with, and that they were forced to do so. I think that is a very serious allegation, which, by the way, does not correspond to my own image of the work visit. Nevertheless, I assume that in the last six days there has been research into where that image came from and whether that is recognized by the people who were there. Again: this is not about names and numbers, but I think it is important to clarify this. It's quite an accusation: deliberately throwing MPs on the wrong foot. Can the Secretary of State say here today that it has been watched and that he has no sign of it? What happened to investigate whether people were put under pressure and forced to tell MPs things they couldn't find? So that is separate from the measurement method.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u133	Those six days are a good point, but if you have such a huge load of work to do, you won't have it complete in six days. Mr Van Weyenberg's point goes beyond making specific estimates and beyond the question of whether there is a management style or culture that actually puts employees under pressure to do things that simply don't belong in an organisation, which in some cases may not belong according to the law or which in any case do not belong in the dealings with the board and with the House of Representatives. That is the real question and that actually brings us to the next block, namely the whole management style and the culture. I think that is the most serious point. That has to do with that distance, but this mixes with images of a completely wrong management style. I think I can be very brief about that: that just needs to change. That is one of the most important tasks that the new dg and I have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u134	I agree that this exceeds the specific point of how you calculate the benefits of Data & Analytics. I would appreciate it if I could have a clear response to this in the short term. I'm actually hoping to hear just a defamation of the allegations in ZEMBLA. The point of culture is absolutely true, but I assume that in the very short term we will also simply get an answer to the question, in the sense of: Parliament, we have done research and what has been said there is not right whether something has happened that has created that image. I would like to clarify this, apart from a specific debate on culture at the Tax Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u135	I find it a little hard to think... I see the information hunger. This is one of the important things: we hear in a broadcast that has dealt with people in a certain way; is that true? I know that the dg has been in contact with them by now and that he didn't come back with that footage, but that's not really conclusive. Let me nest on this care. I think this is a genuine concern and I share it. Can I come back to the question of whether I can do something more about it and, if so, how? I don't know the answer for a moment, but I've been dubbing about it all along. This is weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u136	Yes, the Secretary of State may do that, precisely because I do not want to make any appearance that MPs are deliberately misinformed. That looks can't stick. So I'll wait for that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u137	I would like to support Mr Van Weyenberg on this point. Given that allegation, it seemed obvious to me that the people who gave the presentations in the Brood Room were just called to ask how they experienced this and whether they could confirm or deny it. Maybe that can happen after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u138	This may require even more than that. I understand that the new dg has passed through there, but it is not that you get such an answer from such a collective company in one go. I think that is simply not the final answer. I have been puzzled about this for some time and I continue to like Mr Van Weyenberg's question but also Mr Groot's concern. This chunk in all our stomachs should be dealt with. I'll see if I've answered all the questions; I think I have. I propose that Mr Van Dijck's remarks should be included in the AO on 22 February on enforcement policy. I think I've walked past everything now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u139	I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u140	I don't think one of my questions has been answered yet. I asked a question about the privacy officer mentioned in the ADR report of March 2016. It says that position hasn't crystallized yet. I think that position is important within that club. So I would like to be more clear about what is going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u141	ADR is Audit Service Rich? I always think about organ donation, but it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u142	That's a masterful question; excuses. For this reason alone, there should perhaps be a second deadline. I'll have to check the facts for that, too. It's a very good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u143	I see Mr Omtzigt. Is there another question that hasn't been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u144	I'm doing this with some shit, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u145	Well, that's not like you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u146	No, I didn't. I also asked to use those interruptions, because they were in the first block for me. ZEMBLA has just put a new document online from exactly the same authors as the document that was sent. It states that urgent work is needed to bring existing cases within the legislative and regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u147	Then I'm gonna look up that document, too. I don't know that document, but there's always something to read.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u148	That was written by the same people, I saw in the preamble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u149	But I don't think anyone has it here. I'm looking at the other MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u150	That's why I suggest we suspend for half an hour. I really need a little time to figure out what I'm gonna say in the second term. I would like to have a response in an extended first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u151	An extended first term is something other than a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u152	I mean we'll suspend for a while, then get a reaction, and then move on to the second term. We gave the Secretary of State just a week to get the signals out. Now there are signals, and then it would be nice to know what has been done with them. By the way, these signals have gone to the top of the Broodkamer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u153	No one knows this information. First, everyone has to have the same information. Then your colleagues will also be able to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u154	Me, too, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u155	The Secretary of State therefore does not know this information either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u156	Can we just suspend for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u157	That's what I was gonna do anyway. Mr. Omtzigt, the bell hasn't ringed yet. So you can still do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u158	Let me give you the relevant page. Then you can share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-09-tweedekamer-5.u159	We will.
