ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the statement by the Prime Minister of the government. I would like to welcome the members of the cabinet. I have authorized the Foreign Minister to be absent until 11.15 a.m. in connection with the offer of credentials to His Majesty the King by foreign ambassadors. I also authorised the Interior and Infrastructure and Water State Ministers to be present between 2.30 p.m. and 3.45 p.m. at the opening of the new building of both ministries by His Majesty the King. I would like to welcome Members in the Chamber and the people in the public gallery, as well as anyone who follows the sitting from another place. This debate will be followed through livestream. This means that everything we do in this Chamber is being shown from all angles, including the use of mobile phones. I'll just give it to you. I would also point out that there can be no interruptions during the declaration of government. Then, of course, the debate will take place and all the group chairmen will have the floor. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister to make the declaration of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. Today we have the debate on the government declaration and the new plans of the cabinet. However, I would like to start my story outside this Chamber and outside our country, namely in New York, which was struck yesterday by a horrible attack. Our thoughts go out to victims and next of kin. What happened yesterday in New York underlines how important it is that all the good forces in the world continue to pull together in the fight against terror. That's what we're talking about today. Madam President. On 16 January 1978, my great-grandfather in the office of Prime Minister Dries van Agt, at the start of his first cabinet, said to your predecessor and the then members of the Second Chamber: "The cabinet that is present at the Second Chamber today is the result of the longest formation our country has ever known. For the last part of it, I am immediately responsible to the Chamber." As a reformer of the new cabinet, I'd like to make those words mine today. It is my duty, with this declaration of government, to give a text and an explanation of both the process and the outcome of the formation which, indeed, has driven out of the record books in 1977. I shall begin in a moment with an explanation of the coalition agreement, the character of the cabinet and some comments on, yes, the length of the formation process. Then I would like to briefly highlight the main policy ideas and the reasons behind them. But first, I should like to say a few words of thanks. To begin with, the divorced rulers of the Labour Party and the VVD, for their great commitment and commitment. In recent years, much has been achieved for the Netherlands. Work has been hard and result-oriented to the end and the team spirit has always been good. I do not think that any of the divorced rulers would blame me if I specifically mentioned Louis Asscher, who played an important role in this as Deputy Prime Minister. Then also a word of thanks towards the three informers. They have shown wisdom, creativity and, I admit, patience and perseverance. Thanks to the hard work of Edith Schippers, Herman Tjeenk Willink and Gerrit Zalm, the complex election results of 15 March were translated into a four-party cabinet and the ambitious policy programme we are discussing today. Forming with four parties sometimes resembles a search for the quadrature of the circle. But with such process supervisors, it always succeeds in taking a next step and working towards an end result. It's been noted. Madam President. The cabinet that I have the honour to present to your Chamber today is a very ordinary Dutch cabinet. It is a parliamentary majority cabinet, of which we have had so much more in our parliamentary history. It rests on the sound financial pillars of sound public finances and a trendary fiscal policy. And it is in the long tradition of cooperation between parties with a very different signature, a tradition marked exactly 100 years ago by the 1917 Pacific, in which liberals and confessions found each other in the solution of some major social issues. Our parliamentary history shows that the willingness to consult and compromise is always good for our country. The coalition agreement fits in perfectly with that. I would also stress this tradition of cooperation because two circumstances are specific to the cabinet that is now in office. It will govern with the smallest possible majority in both Chambers and we must return to the cabinet of Den Uyl for a coalition composed of rulers of more than three parties. That says something about the election results of 15 March. It says something about the complexity of our country's political relations. But at the same time, it is an additional motivation for this coalition to seek broad support in the coming years. It is true that in the coming years the cabinet will formally rule on the basis of half plus one. But it is in the knowledge that democracy and government benefit from the involvement and co-responsibility of others, from parties in parliament that are not part of the coalition, from municipalities and provinces, from employees and employers, but above all from people themselves. Government policy is not for politics or polder, but for teachers and police officers, parents and volunteers, farmers and artists, top sportsmen and students, people with and without jobs, people with and without restrictions. In short, politics must be about the Netherlands and politics must be there for the Dutch, all the Dutch, especially for those who think that politics is no longer there for them. For this cabinet, the motto "confidence in the future" is therefore also an assignment, because trust must be earned. With this intention, we will always work out and present our policy intentions together with others. And then briefly about the length of the formation process. This can also largely be traced back on 15 March. The result of the election gave rise to a difficult puzzle, because it took at least four parties to reach a majority. We've seen it: it takes time. First to determine which parties can come out with each other and then to reach an agreement that has shared ambitions for the Netherlands and at the same time does justice to real differences between the cooperating parties. To put it in the words of Gerrit Zalm: care had to go above speed in this formation. But the proof that care and action can go hand in hand is there, because the end result has, I believe, certainly not become a watery compromise. So even if a party merger between VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion is not imminent, the motto "confidence in the future" is definitely about ourselves. We got out, we came out okay, and we're excited. What binds and motivates these four parties to work together lies at the heart of the coalition agreement, in the major topics we want to address together: a sustainable Netherlands for next generations, which must pay for its work, that a recognizable Netherlands can make its mark more internationally and above all the common conviction that the middle groups, the people with a normal salary and a normal house for sale or rent now have to find out that the sacrifices they have made in recent years to overcome the crisis have not been for nothing. They deserve to make progress. For the record, that word "just" is inclusive, no matter where your roots are, where you live, what you believe or how you stand in life. This cabinet wants to be there for everyone who contributes to our country, for all generations. Short-term and long-term and left-right are linked in this coalition agreement across policy areas and budget chapters. This coherence is essential. Of course, the coalition agreement contains a range of concrete measures, in which I say that very openly sometimes one coalition party recognizes itself more and sometimes the other. In that respect, too, this is a real Dutch cabinet. We have made compromises and have plans for now and later, small and large, plus and minus, but with a clear direction. This cabinet wants to make a strong country even better for everyone. And that requires more than just additional purchasing power, more than just billions of investments and major reforms. It's also in all those plans that directly affect people's lives positively, plans to support firefighters and police volunteers, fight divorces, fight low literacy, tackle problematic household debt, 20,000 extra sheltered workplaces and extend partners' maternity leave. In short, we have written in the introduction that we are in favour of differences, that we want to bridge differences and that it is important that people progress and improve experience in their personal lives in the coming years. This coalition agreement is for all Dutch and for all society. That brings me to the second part of my speech, Madam President. What are the main policy intentions of the cabinet? First of all, it is clear that the new cabinet will be in office at a time when our country is doing well economically. Growth rates are fine, public finances are in order and unemployment is falling. That is a good starting point and we are happy with that. But if you look a little further ahead, you won't see a spread bed and certainly no reason to sit back and spend careless money, because, yes, too few people still notice that things are going well and too many people are worried about their own future and that of their children. The reality is: a country is never finished, even a strong country like ours is not. That's why the cabinet is going to play chess on four plates at the same time. Firstly, we invest in facilities that are important for everyone. There will be additional money and human resources for elderly care, education, defence, security and infrastructure. Secondly, at the heart of the coalition agreement is the need to reform the tax system, the pension system and the labour market, so that they fit in with the current circumstances and wishes. Thirdly, there is a strong shared awareness in the coalition that an ambitious climate policy is needed. That is not left or right, not liberal or confessional, but necessary. Fourthly, we believe that a recognizable Netherlands in Europe and the world can continue to make its mark. International responsibility and realism must go hand in hand, for example by recognising that migration remains manageable only at European level. That is why extra money is needed for development cooperation, to combat poverty and violence as the root causes of migration and refugee flows. Madam President, I do not think it is appropriate or even simply possible to mention all the plans and measures contained in the coalition agreement. Then I would ask too much of your stamina and that of everyone in this room including myself. I would like to make a few explanatory remarks. Let me start by saying that the extra money for our public services is linked to important social goals. We're not just gonna add up; we also want to achieve something. In order to make the Netherlands safer and more resilient, we strengthen our armed forces, and there will be money for more police officers and detectives, for the fight against cybercrime and for the fight against terrorism. Jihad fighters returning to the Netherlands can be held in detention for longer. We are strengthening the fight against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. There will be additional capacity and additional legislation to tackle the organised crime of motorcycle gangs and others. We are strengthening the rule of law in both preventive and repressive terms. For example, we are going to work on experiments with faster legal procedures through so-called neighborhood judges, on more attention to mediation, but also on stricter penalties for hate-sowing. The new cabinet of course fully supports the international decision to try the suspects of the terrible attack on MH17 in the Netherlands. All necessary preparations are made for this. Education must not be about the system, but about the objectives and the outcome. Good education develops talents, reduces backlogs and makes the Netherlands stronger. That is why we are opting for more freedom of education rather than less, for better working conditions and a lower workload in primary education. We choose to strengthen early and pre-school education, reduce the threshold to study and invest in fundamental and applied research. There is no doubt that care for the elderly requires considerable additional money for more staff and more personal attention, but there is also a need for more attention to be paid to the position of carers. By entering into new healthcare agreements with doctors and manufacturers of medicines, we make it possible to provide as much care as possible with the money available. The own risk does not rise during this cabinet period. We reduce our own contribution to taxi transport, domestic help and wheelchairs. This way, we keep the best care accessible and affordable for everyone. We invest in roads and public transport. Good mobility is the artery of our economy. She is indispensable in our personal lives. Smart technology makes the transport system in our country ever cleaner and more integrated. The cabinet wants to further improve the connection between bicycle, public transport and car with targeted investments. And then point 2: this cabinet is going to reform. Our tax system, our labour market and our pension system were largely formed at a time when people had a job for life, life expectancy was much lower than today, and the digital economy simply didn't exist. In addition, the housing market is in danger of closing down for start-ups and people with an income up to the level of modality, especially in the cities. Security and opportunities in the new economy require periodic maintenance and modernisation. We want more people to spend more and benefit from the favourable economic developments. We want it, especially for smaller entrepreneurs, to be easier to hire someone. The fact that the labour market is becoming more accessible and fairer is a key factor in reducing the fastening and flexing of the labour market. We want to combat bogus self-employment ofzzp'ers, but we want to promote entrepreneurship. We want to work together with the social partners to ensure that our pension system fits better with the different life stages and personal preferences of people. We want to provide more rental homes, which are accessible to the large group of people with a middle income. It cannot be the case that living in the city is only accessible to people who are eligible for social rent or for people who can afford an expensive merchant house. The debate on these major reforms will soon focus on one aspect: either on VAT or on accelerated mortgage interest relief, but not on the lower burden on families. Think of the lower rates in income tax and the reduction in the household income tax. So yes, there are pluses and minuses in it, but the tax reform is a coherent package that, under the line, reduces the burden on people by over EUR 5 billion. The same applies to our policy on the locational environment. It is good to debate the abolition of the dividend tax, but let us also talk about the letterbox companies, which we are tackling at the same time. We make the Netherlands more attractive for companies that really add something to our economy and employment and unattractive for companies that are only interested in smart, accounting constructions. It would be a shame, of course, to lose sight of that connection. Madam President. Point 3: The Netherlands is becoming more sustainable. That's a great ambition. We're setting the bar high. Our country, together with 194 other countries, has signed the Paris climate agreement and must now act accordingly. We aim to reduce CO emissions in our country by 49% by 2030 compared to 1990. We in Europe will be committed to strengthening the common objective to 55%. Why this ambition? Because the Cabinet believes that leading the way in sustainability is our responsibility for future generations. Dutch companies participate in the world's honorary division of sustainable business. Municipalities and provinces are working on it intensively. There is also an electric car for more and more front doors and there are more and more roofs solar panels. This is what we need in the coming years: long-term thinking and short-term doing. In doing so, we are well aware that large climate ambitions can only become reality through a joint effort. The cabinet therefore wants to combine all social initiatives and the new objectives into a national climate and energy agreement, a governance agreement with the other governments and a new Climate Act, in which our ambitions are anchored. In 2030, coal power plants are closed, natural gas and gas extraction in Groningen have been greatly reduced and our country is less dependent on fossil fuels from the Middle East and Russia. Which we can do quickly, we'll do quickly. For example, the greening of our tax system. I refer to the shift in the burden of work and savings towards consumption. I refer to the introduction of a CO tax for the energy sectors. I also mention the introduction of the so-called Maut as soon as possible, a price per kilometre for lorries, which, among other things, goes back to the sector by means of a reduction in the tax on motor vehicles. There will be more opportunities for offshore windmills and fewer and fewer new buildings will be connected to natural gas. The return of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality underlines the great importance of this sector for our country as the world's second agricultural exporter. It is a sector which rests on the traditional family business and which at the same time is high-tech and highly innovative. Our farmers and fishermen and our food industry can play an important role in the sustainable supply of food to a growing world population. Wageningen is a global concept. Here for the Netherlands there is a great potential to exploit, while at the same time keeping a close eye on the interests of nature, the environment and animal welfare. This is the focus of government policy. Madam President. In short. In case of problems with water, everyone looks to the Netherlands. For the answer to the question of how we can produce enough food in the world in 2050, everyone is looking at the Netherlands. Now we also want the world to look at the Netherlands for climate solutions. Finally, Madam President. The cabinet believes that if a country is proud of itself and stands for its core values, it can operate more effectively internationally. That recognizable Netherlands is not uniform. It's a society that doesn't count your faith or your origins, but your future. Tolerance, equivalence and freedom of faith are core values of our country. We want young people to know more about our history: the Wilhelmus, the Night's Watch and the Parliament are anchors of the common identity, which may be experienced more explicitly. We introduce the possibility of a social service, so that young people can experience how beautiful it is to do something for another. And cultural policy in the broad sense is aimed at innovation and accessibility, but also at preserving our built and unbuilt heritage. As a result, the cabinet wants to accelerate the integration of newcomers who are allowed to stay here. Taalles from day one becomes the rule and we are going to offer more opportunities to participate directly in society, for example by volunteering. People whose applications for asylum are rejected must return to their country of origin more quickly. The aim of the policy is to cover refugees as much as possible in the region. To this end, the Cabinet intends to conclude more agreements with safe third countries, if possible in a European context. The ring of instability around Europe and all the changes taking place in Asia, the United States and elsewhere on the world stage have a direct impact on our country. So our work doesn't stop at the border. We are investing in the coming years in strengthening diplomacy, defence and development cooperation. The Netherlands is and remains the reliable ally, as the world knows us; in the European Union, NATO and the United Nations. National interest and international interest are not opposites but are mutually exclusive. With that awareness, we will give substance to our responsibility as a member of the Security Council next year. Madam President. You often hear it with Dutch sobriety saying: it takes a while, but then you also have something. In this case, a coalition agreement that is full of plans, big and small, with which we are going to make a strong country even better for everyone. And around me in trade-K the new team of people who are eager to get to work on the execution. For us, the coalition agreement is a starting point and certainly not an end. There is room for discussion on the concrete implementation. In fact, we need the outside input. The door of the Trêveszaal is on a wide crack.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u3	Yes! We are now going to work with complete conviction, with confidence in the future and I say this with understanding for all those who think: see first, then believe. That too is justified Dutch sobriety, because it is not enough to read and to hear that our country is doing well; we also want to see that in our daily lives. That's the point. Madam President. If I may, at the end of this declaration of government, become a personal one: I am standing here for the third time with a new team today and I can say that it remains a very special moment. It is a positive moment with new momentum and new energy. I know very well that it is inevitable that there will be criticism. The debate in this house and in the First Chamber will be harsh and fierce at times. It should be, because here we fight each other for ideas. That is the crux of democracy. But what would it be worth to me if we could demonstrate to each other in the coming period that we understand the urgency of this time, that we understand that we are not only being called upon to fight, but that solutions are also being asked, that we as politicians can show the Netherlands that differences are there to cherish and contrasts to bridge, so that people feel again that politics is there for them. I will personally, together with my colleagues and you, work with my heart and soul for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-2.u4	I thank the Prime Minister.
