ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u1	I'm reopening the meeting. We will continue with the final part of the debate on the Article 100 letter on the extension of the Dutch contribution MINUSMA in Mali. Speaking time shall be three minutes. If there are any motions, they must be filed in those three minutes. It is also intended that colleagues should state clearly whether they agree to the extension of the mission. We'll have to do that in those three minutes. I would, of course, like to welcome the Minister of Defence. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut as the first speaker on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch military mission in Mali, MINUSMA, must be renewed from this cabinet. The threat of terrorism in Mali, despite the stabilising role that MINUSMA wants to play, has increased over the past year. There is still no inclusive governance, the young people are crying out for jobs and prospects and the security situation has deteriorated. Moreover, the Minister confirms that there is no prospect of termination. The mission goes on, ten years, twenty years, who knows? That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the growing economic inequality in Mali and the lack of an approach to the root causes;]] [[Whereas the MINUSMA operation in Mali brings little (political) stability, the lack of inclusive and stable governance and the deterioration of the security situation;]] [[calls on the government not to send Dutch soldiers to Mali in 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-356]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u3	Mr. Chairman. The security of defence personnel on the air must of course be guaranteed, especially since UN soldiers are regularly targeted by attacks. Due to the painful and deadly accident on which the OVV issued a severe report and for which a minister resigned, many things had to be improved. The government now states that all safety conditions and medical facilities are met. The Minister stated that, after consulting the French and the United Nations and following a number of measures taken, she took full responsibility for this mission. My group has doubts about how all this is possible in such a short time and whether there is not a can-dom ality here, namely that the political desirability of the mission puts too much pressure on it. Can the Minister respond to this? Mr. Chairman. The SP does not support the military mission and political mission by extending the military mission MINUSMA, but we wish the Dutch soldiers who will be sent to Mali very much success in fulfilling this difficult task and a preserved homecoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u4	A brief question from Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u5	It was somewhat to be expected that the SP Group would not agree. I also understand Mrs Karabulut's motion. What I do not understand, also given the debate in first and second terms, is exactly what did not convince her when it comes to medical evacuation. That was an important point in the debate two months ago. What more should the government have done in your eyes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u6	I also say that I must take the Minister's words as my starting point. I also read the report from the OVV. The Minister says that she has put everything in order, including the consultation, and that we should go after the French. I have to assume that, but I do know that there was much more going on in the OVV report. There was incredible political pressure to continue this mission and then decisions were taken. I say in all honesty that I cannot see, also considering the enormous pressure on the defence apparatus, whether this is adequately regulated. That is why I would like to put that question to the Minister once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u8	Those are generalities. With political pressure, we can all imagine something, but that was not what the OVV report was about. The OVV report contained two cases. The first was the ammunition chain, which has been extensively treated and extensively addressed. You either have faith in that or you don't trust it. All ammunition that was in doubt...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u9	That debate has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u10	... has been taken out. The second was the medevac. There have been a lot of measures, a lot of controls and a lot of extra ambitions. What's missing, Mrs. Karabulut? What's missing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u11	I do not want to repeat myself, but I would like to repeat that the Minister has proposed a number of improvements, including improvements which were not good enough at first. I wonder if it will all be settled in such a short time. I would like another response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u12	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u13	Mr. Chairman. It is the third time that the government has asked for permission to extend the Dutch contribution to the mission in Mali. It would originally take two years. We've been there for four years. We've gone from 450 to 250 soldiers. They form the ears and eyes of the UN mission. The task of the UN mission is to stabilise Mali. The task of the Dutch contribution is to set up an effective and transferable intelligence chain. Mr. Chairman. That intelligence chain is here. He's also effective. He is even indispensable, according to the Force Commander of MINUSMA. He works, too. We've heard examples of that. What didn't work out is making the mission transferable. That is why we are not in a sequence of renewal for the first time. Against that background, the VVD finds it very valuable that the government finally recognises that it should link missions not so much to an end date but to an end state, i.e. to targets rather than data. In fact, regardless of the operational military need to plan, date fixation leads to follow-up pressure and a misexpectation pattern, both political and public, which, in missions, is almost consistent with the need to re-assess the situation as a result of evaluations. A clear endstate definition means that we know why we are there and that we can also know and measure what we can achieve. In Mali, that is not the stabilisation of the country or the possibility of peace negotiations. In Mali, that's setting up an effective intelligence chain. It was put in the scaffolding by the Netherlands. The question is whether intelligence capacity will also contribute to the management of migratory flows and the fight against trafficking in human beings. Unfortunately, that is still in its infancy. At the same time, we see that development cooperation efforts are hardly contributing to this. In my group's view, this is now being done far too narrowly. The failing cashew nut chain is perhaps the best illustration of this. With regard to the fight against migration and trafficking in human beings, we do not find the government's response sufficiently convincing. Of course, that doesn't determine whether we'll agree to the mission. That is not the prime objective. But to a large extent it determines our enthusiasm for the mission. We will therefore continue to insist on and insist on this during the mission's progress review, and we expect more commitment and more results in this area. But the core of the balance that my group had to make in order to be able to agree to this mission lies in the guarantees we have received from the Minister of Defence for the security of our military. This is, after all, a central point in the review framework. We've looked at that meticulously and in detail. We can conclude that both for the management, storage and use of ammunition and for the co-vac guarantees have been issued which convince them. That is why my group can support this extension. We wish all 250 men and women who are doing important work in Mali every success and a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u14	Thank you, Mr Ten Broeke. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks, MINUSMA has actively campaigned in Mali with the support of local activists to end violence against women and girls. It is a small light in a country that is plagued by news about attacks, annoyances about foreign military and a weak government. Mali could be a long time away. My group welcomes the long-standing international commitment to the fate of this country. Our military contribution is important, but so is our political commitment and our efforts in the field of development cooperation. Mali is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world. A large proportion of the rapidly growing population lives in persistent poverty. Climate change threatens food production. Water is scarce. Agricultural land is further depleted. If we do not tackle these sources of conflict, then peace and stability remain an illusion. The previous cabinet has responded positively to my group's suggestion to explore how our efforts in this area can be expanded. However, next year the budget for improved water management will be reduced. For technical reasons, Minister Kaag said. We are waiting for the letter she is going to write to us on this, but my group is nevertheless asking for a ruling from the Chamber to give an extra boost to the fight against climate change. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that climate change in Mali is a threat to food production and water supply, and thus a source of conflict;]] [[whereas the Netherlands favours an integrated approach in dealing with conflicts in which defence, diplomacy and development go hand in hand;]] [[calls on the Government, together with international and Malian partners, to consider how more can be done to halt climate change as a source of conflict in Mali,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-357]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u16	Mr. Chairman. After the terrible accident in Kidal and the devastating OVV report that followed, in my group's view, Defence has done all it can to increase the security of our military. However, this should not be a one-off operation. Rehearsals, tests, checks and, if necessary, adjustments will have to be made. As a Chamber, we would like to stay informed of this permanent effort. With this remark, I can inform you that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance agrees to the extension of the mission. On behalf of my group, I wish the military, diplomats and development workers a safe and successful mission. There are also those who are left behind in our minds. The work being done in Mali is of the utmost importance. For the Malians, for peace and stability in the West African region and also for us here in the still safe Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u18	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to extend the mission in Mali. With the article 100 letter, the Cabinet requests permission from us, the Chamber, to deploy the defence personnel for the mission in Mali. In this case it is an extension, but then it is not an easy decision, because this is about life and death, this is about human lives. In addition, the mission in Mali is the most deadly UN mission. This only makes the decision for a Member of Parliament more difficult and difficult. Mr. Chairman. We at DENK make the decision whether or not to participate in a mission on the basis of three criteria. The first criterion relates to the basic needs of defence personnel. We think you should put your house in order before you can do decent work elsewhere. Our military must be provided with a decent salary, safe ammunition, good clothes and all other basic necessities. Unfortunately, we have seen that this was not and still is not the case. The mortar accident in Mali that killed two of our soldiers was no accident. That was due to a major negligence. We never want to see this again. That is why we need to put our house in order first. The second criterion concerns the effectiveness and efficiency of missions. We believe that missions are useful if they really help the country and the citizens of the country forward. DENK wants us to focus primarily on prevention and cure if necessary. We must prevent wars and conflicts. This can be done through conflict prevention, mediation and diplomacy, things we are good at, things that can bring much good to the world. If necessary, we must also work to heal. We can do healing through reconstruction, education and development aid. But a Band-Aid will only help if new injuries are stopped. We see that, as our soldiers reach out to help, our allies hand out fists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u19	This was in fact the contribution of Mr Öztürk in the general discussions. He mentions the conditions under which the party DENK could agree to any military missions. If I listen to all these conditions, the question comes to my mind: what can DENK say when it comes to military missions, what can you support?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u20	This afternoon we had a discussion about the Rohingya. Women have been raped for months. Kids get killed. People live in impossible circumstances. Mr Kuzu has asked questions here. Only GroenLinks responded. I see the Chamber doesn't care about that. I see the same room chasing America every time they ask us to. In our opinion, the line being used here is not fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u21	Let me say first of all about the Rohingya that I think there are great concerns, from the SP to perhaps even the PVV. The Chamber also encourages the Netherlands to do what it can. But now I would like an answer to my question, because I have not had it. If you take your own criteria, Mr Öztürk, what can be done in the field of military missions? Let me tell you the conclusion. I don't think there's anything you can do. I don't think that's very strange either, because in your election programme, you're making huge cuts in the defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u22	That's a bad conclusion D66 draws. We want to go to missions where we can prevent wars. We want to go to missions where, after war, we will rebuild the country. I can mention some for you. If you read our election programme, you will see that we are cutting EUR 1.7 billion. If you buy one less submarine, you already have that cut. D66 is now behind the PvdA, as under the previous cabinet. We'll see what the result is. The PvdA went from 38 to 9 seats. We'll see what it gets for D66. Follow the VVD!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u23	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u24	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I am trying very hard, and you will notice that, just to get an answer to a substantive question. The only thing I get back from Mr Öztürk are you-bakken over the PvdA and the VVD. I will be the first to sympathize with the fate of the PvdA. Like no other, Mr Öztürk knows what it is like to walk away from it. But the question before us, and I would really like an answer to that question, is where, according to DENK, the Netherlands can make a military contribution. It's a very simple question. Please call it a mission, an area, a place where that can be done. I don't think you can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u25	I just mentioned it at the Rohingya. I already told you. And where? In places where America is gone, in places where there is no more fighting, in places where people are not knowingly placed in a difficult position. Yeah, right there! Again, I wish D66 every success in chasing after the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u26	One of the places where the Netherlands fought, and we learned a lot of lessons from it as a Chamber, is in Srebrenica in Bosnia. There 8,300 Muslim men and boys have found an end to their lives, often in mass graves. That's where the Netherlands operated. We've learned lessons from that. A review framework has emerged. That is the framework of scrutiny that everyone here in the Chamber uses when we have to decide whether to agree to a mission or not. DENK contrasts with its own review framework. At your service. I must also say that at least you are present at all the time limits of this debate. It's a pleasure for you. But here's what I'd like to know. If your criticism is, and it was in the first, in the second and now again in the third term, that the military lacks equipment on that mission, that you still have no confidence in that ammunition, which has all been taken out of the chain and triple-checked, then you must state here what is missing. My question to you is: can you indicate what is missing? What is missing from this mission so that these soldiers cannot fulfil their duties?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u27	During the general consultation I asked the Secretary of State if she could give me the assurance that all the basic needs of all the military, all 40,000, plus civilian personnel, were met. The Secretary of State couldn't give me a guarantee. Our idea is that you have to put your house in order first. All soldiers in the Netherlands must be properly facilitated. And not because we want to go after America and straighten things out a little bit in Mali and then continue chasing America. No, all the defense personnel need what it really needs. Only then should we look at missions. That's the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u28	I understand that you have to drag America in every time as the great Satan, because you cannot answer my question, but I would like to stick to the review framework that you yourself are presenting here. What you are saying is quite something, namely that the Dutch military in Mali lacks equipment, facilities, even basic needs. I think it makes no sense to say that. You haven't been able to harden it at a moment's notice. There was no discussion of this with the Secretary of State during the debate, so you are referring to something else. So you need to make what they lack here on the basis of your own review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u29	The Secretary of State has not been able to give me any guarantee that all military personnel have all the basic needs. I asked you twice. She has said twice: we are working on it. I would point out that we have not yet given every military what he needs. That is why we say: first order of business in the house and then go after America.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u30	You mean the Minister. You kept saying "secretary," but you mean the minister. Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u31	Mr. Chairman. The third criterion of DENK is transparency and public support. We therefore want a war-budsman, who goes to all missions and informs us all independently about the missions. For we see that transparency is bad, for example on the number of civilian casualties. We at DENK believe that there should also be public support for the missions, because only political support is insufficient. It is also important for the military to be able to count on the support of the population. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if she is prepared to conduct a periodic survey of the social support for the missions we are contributing to. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. Unfortunately, we see that the criteria I have just mentioned are not being met or are not being met. Therefore, DENK will not support the mission in Mali. Should the mission continue, my group wishes the military who participate in the mission a safe return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u32	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u33	Madam President. It is and remains a special moment for a parliamentarians: the moment when you give the final green light for the broadcast of Dutch soldiers to a risky area. That is what we want and must be extremely conscientious about. It is good that there are also women and men in the Netherlands who want to work actively to promote peace and security in other countries, primarily in the interests of the inhabitants of those countries, but certainly also in the interests of our own country in terms of peace and security in the world. The 50PLUS Group greatly appreciates the courage and commitment of these people, both in Mali and Afghanistan, which we will be discussing later. Unfortunately, we were unable to attend the general consultations on these missions, but what was discussed there, of course, was well followed. Our appreciation is due to the detailed answers given by the ministers on that occasion and to the written round of questions. This is important to us because 50PLUS wants to make an extremely conscientious assessment. This is, of course, particularly true in the case of Mali, where we had a dramatic fatal accident last year. Since then, unfortunately, the troops from other countries have also been killed. For 50PLUS, this is not an immediate reason to stop, but to participate in missions where our women and men would be in unacceptable danger, we cannot discuss it. The risks in Mali have been discussed extensively and in depth in the AA. On the part of the cabinet, it has been indicated that new agreements have been made on adequate medical care if soldiers are injured. In addition, other measures have been taken to prevent a tragedy such as that in July of last year from happening again. Guarantees cannot be given, but on the basis of the statements by the directors and the participants in the briefing there is sufficient confidence in 50PLUS. We assume that the so-called 'candomism' is no longer at issue here. Against this background, the 50PLUS Group agrees with the one-year extension proposal. This is what we expect the ministers concerned to do more than ever on their own responsibility to monitor closely the progress of MINUSMA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u34	Thank you very much, Mr Van Rooijen. I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u35	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues before me have already said that the UN mission in Mali is currently the most dangerous UN mission in the world. Our military are doing important and difficult work there, work for which we have respect and work that contributes to stability and security in Mali but above all to the creation of an effective and transferable intelligence chain. That is why I believe it is vital that when we send our soldiers, all the conditions of force protection, violence domination and medical evacuation are in order. This is also the overarching lesson of the nail-hard OVV report, of which the previous cabinet and fortunately this cabinet have also said that they want to accept all recommendations. The Chamber also asked for this in the factual questions, in the technical briefing and in the debate itself. In that area, the cabinet has taken away my concerns. We welcome the fact that the cabinet has decided on an operational break, that additional security controls have been carried out, that ammunition has been replaced, and that the Netherlands has been given the UN black-and-white commitment that a helicopter is ready 24/7 for medical evacuation that can take off within 20 minutes. However, my group would like to stress that if Dutch soldiers are deployed in Mali, wherever they are, in Gao, Timbuktu, Mopti or the border area, the so-called 10-1-2 standard must be guaranteed everywhere. I would ask the Minister to stress this again here today. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the Togolese role 2-hospital, the cabinet has also done a great deal to remove the worrying conclusions of the OVV report. My appreciation for that. I would like to stress today that this is also a commitment from the Secretary of Defense present here that every rotation of Togolese doctors in the role 2 hospital will be re-inspected to see whether the concerns identified by the OVV have not returned with those new people and that the Chamber will be informed when these inspections have taken place. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has worked hard to put these conditions back on track 100%. I'm grateful to the Cabinet for that. I express my expectation and hope that this will continue to be the case in the future. That is why my group supports the extension of this mission. I wish all the soldiers involved and their home front all success and above all a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also allowed to speak on behalf of the SGP today, as was the case in the general consultation. I would like to thank the Ministers for their clear answer in first and second terms. It is a difficult extension decision, as two Dutch soldiers died in the MINUSMA mission during the last period. The Minister has resigned and so has the Commander of the Armed Forces. The Safety Research Council wrote a very worrying report on ammunition safety and medical care. The letters and the debate on the extension showed that many recommendations have now been taken into account and implemented. I thank the Cabinet for that. At the same time, the Defence Department must remain very vigilant in the purchase, storage and use of ammunition. Regular checks on ammunition safety should prevent another terrible accident. Doubts about the reliability of the 81 mm mortars do not help, even if they are used only in extreme need. When will these mortars be replaced? As far as medical care is concerned, it is reassuring that there is a medical evacuation helicopter permanently standing by in Kidal and that it can also fly at night. The Minister and the Commander of the Armed Forces have declared to the Chamber that the UN standard 10-2-1 is now being achieved. There's no time wasted asking for permission from Bamako. In the event of a large-scale incident, help from the Germans or the UN can be flown in. The medical personnel at the hospital in Kidal have been replaced. The necessary equipment has been improved. And the whole medical chain is trained and well-equipped. However, the Christian Union continues to press for the addition of Dutch medical staff, as is the case in Afghanistan. I therefore urge the Minister once again to reconsider this. I'd like to hear her response in her term. Mr. Chairman, I'm coming to Gao. In addition to ammunition and medical care, air support from Gao is also indispensable for the mission in Kidal. Until mid 2018, this air support is also guaranteed by the Germans and the Belgian helicopters. I would like to draw your attention to the second half of 2018. The helicopters of Jordan and El Salvador may be available, but they are not yet available. Can the Chamber get a ruling on this at the beginning of next year? I would like to hear a commitment from the Minister on that point. In conclusion. Despite the risks involved in this mission, the Christian Union Group also sees clear improvements and scaling-up of medical care and ammunition safety. Together with the need to contribute to gathering information for the MINUSMA mission, the ChristianUnion considers it still justified to extend the mission for another year. I would like to highlight the comments that we have made and the concerns that there are. We therefore wish the soldiers involved a great deal of wisdom on mission. We pray for God's protection and a safe homecoming. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u38	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u39	Thank you, Mr President. A decision to broadcast men and women weighs heavily, because we know that there are uncertainties and that people are at risk. The conclusions of the OVV report have also shocked us. It is good to hear that much has been done to resolve the shortcomings identified in that report in Mali. Thank you to the ministers for that. It is also clear that more is needed. We hope to be able to read about this in the government's substantive response to the OVV report, which we are still receiving. MINUSMA is a so-called modular mission. Countries make a specific contribution as part of the whole. The advantage of this is that a module supplied by a country would be easier to take over by another country. This should increase the willingness of countries to contribute. Now, in the practice of MINUSMA, it has been found that this modular effect does not work. Countries contributing to the mission do not know whether replacements have been arranged for their module and whether they can do their work safely enough, with, for example, enough standby helicopters. The UN would do well to arrange the planning for a modular mission such as MINUSMA for a longer period of time. We therefore call on the Cabinet to make a firm plea in favour of this in the United Nations and to inform the Chamber accordingly. In our group, there has been extensive and careful discussion of the extension of participation in MINUSMA. We have listened carefully to the answers given by the ministers concerned to our questions. Our decision primarily affects the citizens of Mali, because it concerns them. They called on the international community to assist them in the fight against extremism, instability, insecurity and human rights violations. It is also a matter of assisting them in their fight for good governance, for a rule of law that works for everyone and for development. Of course, our decision also affects the military and the other colleagues who are on the air, and their neighbours, the home front. They are all the more important today. These men and women must be able to count on a clear and realistic mission, on the best possible equipment and care and on material and moral support where and when needed. On the basis of the questions we have asked and the answers we have received, our group can agree to a contribution to this mission. We wish men and women every success in this mission and above all we hope for a safe return home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u40	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we spoke in this Chamber for the first time about whether or not to participate in MINUSMA, I think it was in 2013 or perhaps in early 2014, I took the view that it is not really on the way from the Netherlands to have to and want to intervene here. It should be on the road of the countries surrounding Mali, all of which have an interest in the situation in the border zones and in Mali. They have a direct interest in this. That didn't happen back then. We were going to broadcast this mission, and the surrounding countries weren't doing anything. But, hurrah, this year it appears that we, the surrounding countries, have now decided to take action to combat terrorism in that region. This is then done under the heading of the G5 countries. In the meantime, France has been working on a strong force for a number of years, but it has not yet achieved much. Now I come to the Dutch part of the mission, because as others have said, that is the gathering of information. When I look at that, I say that the return on this has not really become clear to me. I do not see that it has produced a return that justifies as much money as it has cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u42	I would just like to point out to Mr De Roon that, as part of the MINUSMA mission, there is a major contribution from a country such as Chad from the region. Chad has many deaths to regret: men, sometimes boys, who are working for Mali's security as part of that UN mission. So I would really like to contradict the fact that the region has not taken any responsibility. They did. They're making a big contribution and they've made very big sacrifices for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u43	Mrs Ploumen is certainly right that, over the years, efforts have been made from the surrounding countries, particularly from Chad, which is rightly referred to as "the country'. What I said was that the neighbouring countries did not show up in the initial phase. It concerns in particular those countries which have the greatest interest in it, such as Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia. They were then absent when it came to bet on this subject. That's what I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u44	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u45	I have already said that I do not see the return of the Dutch commitment in recent years, especially when it comes to balancing the amount of money it has cost. If that extension continues for 2018, it has cost us a total of EUR 424 million in the military field. During the same period, we also spent EUR 182 million on aid for Mali. In total, therefore, it is more than EUR 600 million and I have not even counted the contribution that the Netherlands has made to Mali through the EU. Where's that gonna end? We have been told earlier that the UN must remain active in Mali for at least 20 years with military and development aid. My question to the Minister is therefore whether the government intends, as far as it is concerned, to continue to draw the wallet for this mission, which was launched at the time by the Labour Party. As far as the PVV is concerned, the squandering of money called Malimission must be stopped immediately. My group therefore does not support the extension of this mission. But, of course, I have noticed that there is quite a lot of support in this Chamber for the extension of this mission. So I'm assuming it's gonna go on unless we get something else from the minister. That means, of course, that I wish the soldiers who go there much strength and not only their neighbors but also their neighbors. I wish them all a safe return to the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u46	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u47	Thank you, Mr President. The Animal Party did not support the participation in MINUSMA in Mali in 2013, because we did not believe that the mission would provide a lasting solution for the population, namely stability, freedom and security. At the time, we were also difficult to convince of the positive effects of violence. The UN mission in Mali is currently the most dangerous UN mission in the world and has so far cost the lives of 146 soldiers. Less than two months ago, following the devastating report of the Security Research Council, we had a fierce debate in this Chamber on the serious shortcomings in the security of our military in Mali and the former Minister of Defence saw no other option but to resign. During the briefing on the mission, in which we unfortunately could not be present, but which I followed afterwards, and in the reply of the new minister during this debate it became clear that despite the Dutch commitment to protect citizens and restore the state authority, the war in Mali continues and the threat of terrorism has increased. More and more Malians do not feel protected by the Malian government and join various jihadist groups. The Animal Party is still not reassured that the critical points in the OVV report have been resolved, even now that France claims to be able to guarantee that the medical facilities in Kidal are guaranteed. At the beginning of the mission, the prediction was that our military would stay in Mali for about ten years. We are now living in 2017. The Minister does not dare to put an end to this, because the problem in Mali is extremely complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u48	Mrs Arissen herself says that she has been able to follow the briefing at a distance. She wasn't on the first and second terms. That's why I can't ask her this question until now. It was indeed a very fierce debate, not least because Mrs Arissen insisted on the resignation of the Minister two months ago. That minister has resigned and has therefore himself had consequences for that report. Now there is a curious question as to what the Party for Animals concludes from what has happened since then. There's a new minister now. You say that you still have doubts about the points on which the OVV report drew important conclusions; of the same OVV, the doctor is employed on the co-vac, and the same OVV doctor has now said that he has confidence in it. Can Mrs Arissen, on behalf of the Animal Party, indicate what is sticking her now? What's missing from ammunition management and the co-vac?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u49	Without repeating the debate on the OVV report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u50	But that is central here, Mr President, and not because I say it, but because Mrs Arissen did it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u51	Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u52	The Party of Animals believes that we should not judge this lightly at all. It is now two months after the debate on the report on all these shortcomings and on the insecurity of the military. We find it very special that all of this has suddenly been resolved, and in fact only because France has promised that the medical post is now in order. That is really not enough as far as the Animal Party is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u53	Mrs Arissen, there are a lot of colleagues here who have attended the debates very carefully and come to different conclusions. If what you're saying is true, a lot of people are sleeping here, and they don't, because they've been very precise, and they've looked at detail about what happened. You say here: two months have passed, so we can't know. I don't think you know. Can you tell me what's missing here? What's in the ammunition chain that's changed now that your consent can't bear? What has changed in the medevac and has changed quite a bit, which cannot bear your approval? Can you be specific about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u54	Fortunately, the Animal Party is not the only party to question this. The SP has also just said in its contribution and in answering your questions that it is not confident that everything is now good and good. The Party for Animals has made its own considerations. Unfortunately, I have not been able to attend the first deadlines due to overlap in the Chamber's agenda. I very much regret that, but I think this is a very important subject. I have read it well and the Animal Party has come to the conclusion that we think this is a little too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u55	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u56	I do not blame you for not being on the first or second term, as I have just said. What I do have difficulty with is that parties or colleagues in the Chamber who have done so are actually dismissed with your judgment as those who have not done so seriously. I'd like to know what you're doing on your own. Apparently there is, because that's what you just said. The only thing I hear from you is that as a witness, you lead a party that always says no, namely the SP. What is your own consideration? What is missing from the two central points of criticism of the OVV? What didn't happen when it came to the ammunition chain or medevac? I think a lot has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u57	The OVV report showed a whole list of shortcomings. The most serious shortcomings were in terms of ammunition safety and medical care. The Party for Animals has made an assessment of this. The fact that other parties come to a different balance is fine. We believe that they are making a wrong assessment, but I did not say anything about other parties. I have just said that the Party for Animals has made a trade-off and thinks this is a little too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u58	Very briefly, because Mr Ten Broeke is dragging my party back in. I just want to remind him of the facts, which of course he already knew. We do support missions under conditions. We do not treat our military lightly, nor can we issue a security check. It would please him if he would show a little more respect for parties that have a different vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u59	I don't think any party in this Chamber deals lightly with the conditions surrounding missions. That goes from left to right. I think that Mr Ten Broeke's questions are justified. I just agreed to this mission on behalf of D66. It worries me slightly when a party says: I do see holes. That is why I think it is legitimate to ask questions. We have removed procedural, material and human concerns from the OVV report in the debate. Several ministers have considered these concerns and recommendations one by one. I do like it when the Party for Animals can call something concrete, which it says is not right. We can then move together if we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u60	That's what I wanted to tell you in my contribution. In our view, the main problem is that France offers guarantees and says: everything is fine. The Dutch military will have to rely on that. As far as we are concerned, that is too short a turn...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u61	I have to interrupt you. We really have a problem with staff sitting in the back of the room talking and laughing. So if you can, please go down the hall. Please continue, Mrs. Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u62	The Party for Animals therefore finds it too short, also because a very short time has passed and the findings of the OVV report are so shocking that a Minister of Defence has resigned. These findings were known in June this year. There was no mission stop at the time. She's been waiting for it. That is one of the reasons, I think, that she has come to the decision to resign. According to the Party for the Animals, it was a wrong decision. That is what we anticipated and said: too little time has passed and we now only have the assurance that France is making some kind of commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u63	It will be a repetition of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u64	However, this is important, because we have not been able to hold this debate in the first and second periods and because the unsuspecting spectator of this debate might think that there is only a guarantee on the table from France. That is why I propose to Mrs Arissen the following. The entire staff of Togolese hospital has been changed. There's a new anesthesiologist. The cabinet has deployed a senior medical officer to have extra control over this. The equipment has been replenished. I do not even mention the UN guarantees on the 24/7 co-vac, the helicopter that can take off in twenty minutes and so on. That's what finally convinced my party...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u65	Yeah, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u66	...that enough has been done. Is there anything specific on these specific points that Mrs Arissen says: I do not like it? I would say: get through with it, because then we, as a Chamber, can do something with it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u67	Mrs. Arissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u68	As I said, France has given guarantees that the medical facilities in Kidal are now in order. That is not enough for the Party for the Animals. I do have some other arguments why we do not want to continue the mission in Mali. If you want to hear it...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u69	I'm sorry, but this has also been discussed extensively in general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u70	No, she wasn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u71	Mrs Arissen was not in the general discussion, but that does not mean that the debate should be resumed. This is really a plenary session. The debate should not be repeated, not even if you were not there. I am very sorry, but this is really a plenary session. I usually do it in half. Anyway, I'm going to see Mr Van Helvert now. I'm sorry, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u72	In threes, so it must also be equal monks, equal hoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u73	Yes, of course, but not repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u74	Rightly so, we are not repeating ourselves. I'm trying to avoid that, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u75	And short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u76	... but then I do need an answer to which I can continue. If Mrs Arissen doesn't think that French guarantee is enough, I can even imagine if she says that it would only be French, then my question is what does she think that this cabinet has been to someone who has been consulted by the OVV and then said: I agree with the conclusions of the cabinet, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u77	I can't stop repeating myself. The Animal Party has made a number of considerations, which relate not only to the OVV report but also to the fact that this mission is pointless in our view, looking at the spiral of violence and the vicious circle of violence in which we now find ourselves and which needs to be broken. The Animal Party considers that the extension of the mission will not make a positive contribution in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u78	Mr. Van Helvert, do you have a new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u79	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. How does the Animal Party feel about the UN and our army's highest medical authority giving over the new role 2 hospital?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u80	They have confidence in this, as the technical briefing shows. I have listened carefully to this and I have read the Minutes very carefully, but I think, and I think, that my party is too risky to prolong the presence of our Dutch soldiers in this most dangerous mission in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u81	Good. Please continue, Mrs. Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u82	Where was I, Mr. Chairman? That's the question now. Lieutenant Admiral Bauer, Commander of the Armed Forces, stated that the UN expects foreign troops to be needed in Mali for at least 20 years to come. The Animal Party is wondering where this will end, especially now that we are unfortunately finding that there is an increase in insecurity in the region and that the region is also becoming more unstable. In a country larger in size than France, Germany and the United Kingdom combined, a military conflict resolution is not well imaginable. Much more should be devoted to a political solution. That is more sustainable, it costs less people's lives and is ultimately cheaper. Mr. Chairman. Considering all this, the Animal Party decided not to support the extension of the Dutch contribution to MINUSMA in Mali. We do, of course, wish the military every success and a safe journey home. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u83	Thank you. Finally, I will go to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been contributing to the UN Mission MINUSMA in Mali since 2014. This is important for Mali itself, it is also important for the region, for Europe and for the Netherlands. We can't afford free ports for terrorism. Mali is in the ring of instability on the southern flank of Europe and is a switch country in the field of irregular migration and smuggling. MINUSMA operates under difficult conditions. It is also a dangerous mission in which most blue helmets were killed and unfortunately also Dutch soldiers. Such loss is always very hard on family, next of kin, friends and colleagues. It's affecting the entire Defense Organization. Decision-making on the sending of military personnel feels a heavy responsibility for the CDA. And that weight will always be palpable. The OVV conducted research into the mortar accident in Mali and issued a report with harsh conclusions. Much has turned out to have gone wrong in the recruitment, management, storage and use of ammunition and in medical care. The mission was temporarily suspended and the Minister and Commander of the Armed Forces resigned. It is important to draw lessons from this for ongoing and future missions, particularly in Mali. The CDA was therefore also critical of the decision to continue for longer. After the written round and the technical briefing, three points remained for the CDA on which we were critical and for which we really needed firm guarantees from the Minister. It was about helicopter capacity, 24/7, and a UN Envoy who could give permission 24/7 so that the helicopter could take off within 20 minutes, if needed. It was also about guarantees for the 10-1-2 standard: within ten minutes first aid for wounded soldiers, within one hour a doctor and within two hours surgical care. The third point was the role 2-hospital, run by our Togolese friends. We have asked the Minister about this in detail. On December 1st, a letter gave these guarantees. The last general discussion was therefore mainly about how it is possible that it is now all settled and whether all that is true. That is what we have long-term experience with the Minister of Defence and the Foreign Minister, to put it bluntly. I must say that there have been clear answers. That's the way it's supposed to be. That's the way the CDA likes the military to be deployed. All the necessary conditions have been met in order for soldiers to be able to do their important work effectively. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive reply in the first two deadlines and also for the information given in writing and in the technical briefing. Our soldiers make a valuable contribution to MINUSMA. The intelligence work, the long-range reconnaissances, are of great importance for the functioning of the mission as a whole. The work is highly appreciated and is not yet finished. We are being called upon to do so. The circumstances are risky. It is precisely for this reason that essential conditions must be fulfilled when our people leave the gate. If this is not the case enough, the operations will be adapted accordingly. That commitment by the Minister of Defence is very important: if it is not complied with, the operations will be adapted. It is therefore important to remain critical, for example when it comes to the Togolese surgeon team. If that changes, who's gonna take care of the inspection? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Over and over again, it appears to be a major challenge to find a scarce capacity as helicopter capacity for a major UN mission as MINUSMA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u85	You really need to finish, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u86	Yes, I do. I come now to the question of whether we agree to the mission or not, Mr President. This shows the importance of a multi-annual rotation scheme. The CDA calls on the Cabinet to continue its efforts, especially when we are soon members of the UN Security Council. Mr. Chairman. With the improvements in the mission, with the assurances given by the Cabinet, with the guarantees given by the UN and France, the CDA can agree to the extension of the mission. We wish our soldiers and the home front all success and strength, and a preserved homecoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u87	Thank you. And three minutes is really three minutes. That goes for everyone. The CDA therefore has no exception. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. She can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is indeed a third time-limit, a final debate, so I will not go into all the questions that have been asked and which have been raised in the debate during the first two periods. I'm sure I'll say that in your direction. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber, also on behalf of my colleagues in the Foreign Affairs Committee and Mr BuHa-OS, for their contribution to the plenary session of our discussions on the Dutch contribution to MINUSMA. I am now doing this very explicitly because you voted in favour of extending this contribution in 2018. I too am well aware that this is not an easy decision, because much has preceded it. In general, we have discussed this extensively with each other in two terms. I have indicated to the members of the Chamber that I have looked with some suspicion at the follow-up to the conclusions of the OVV report. I remember very well that Mr Ten Broeke asked me: how would you look at it as a mother, would you send your children on a mission? That's how I approached it, and that's how I looked at it. I realize very well that we are standing here for a heavy responsibility. I looked at it this way, I went through all the points of the OVV report and I also discussed them extensively with the Chamber. I am glad that you say by a large majority that they were clear and clear answers. I also remember Mr Van Helvert saying: how is that possible? The spokesman of the Party for Animals also asked for this. The OVV looked back on an accident in 2016. I have also raised this in the Chamber. Since then, improvements have been made in the areas mentioned by the Court. In particular, I have focused on medical capacity. We also sent a letter to you on 1 December. I thought that should be insured. It is precisely because I think it is a heavy responsibility that we have taken all the conclusions seriously and we have exchanged them extensively. I will look at a few specific questions that have been asked in my direction and will then provide an assessment of the motions. Mrs Karabulut, I do not feel that I should repeat the whole discussion. You asked me to send men and women out with peace of mind. With peace of mind, as far as that can be. I have looked very critically at all the points that have been followed. I've exchanged it extensively with you, too. Then you have to be confident you're okay. But we must also all realise that it is men and women who are at risk for their own lives and that it is not a safe area. That is why it is a heavy responsibility. A number of members of the Chamber have also mentioned that there are many uncertainties. But what we could do about it, we've done about it. That is why I have sufficient confidence at the moment to send the men and women out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u89	Very briefly, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u90	Of course, there's always a risk in a military broadcast. I understand. That makes perfect sense. However, the question is whether the Minister is satisfied that the improvements that have been made are sufficient for the necessary security. The same applies to the medical facilities needed for military personnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u91	The answer to that is "yes." Otherwise, I wouldn't have done it. I think that this has already been adequately exchanged in the debate on the interruption. In that sense, I was disappointed, even though someone was not present at the debate, with what was put forward by the spokesman of the Party for Animals, because I do not support the French commitment at all. That's one of the parts. I support our own controls that have been there. Our own anesthesiologist, our own surgeon, the inspections, the UN letter, the UN deployment, the helicopter; everything that has been discussed in the interrupting debate, that makes me feel at ease right now. I was sorry that not the entire Chamber realized that I ultimately support our own assessment. We have to make our own assessment here, like we're sitting here together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u92	Of course. And I also assume that the Minister means this. I can also see that a number of steps have been taken. Just, if you'll excuse me, we... That French commitment has been there for a while. The helicopter that was deployed, it was too slow at first. And now there are promises. But, of course, we also include what has gone before and we also look at the total state of the military apparatus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u93	Mr. Chairman. I thought I had just not addressed Mrs Karabulut on this point. Mrs Karabulut, I don't blame you. Everyone makes their own assessment based on the information we give you here. Mr Ten Broeke spoke about end state. The State Department's colleague has promised that we will look into this and that we will discuss it further with each other. I will respond to Mr Van Ojik's contribution when I discuss the motion. Mr Sjoerdsma has asked me another question about the 10-1-2 standard for every effort. I have already discussed this in depth in general consultation, but it is an important point. As I said at the time, the Director of Operations of our department is looking into whether this condition is met. It's not just the 10-1-2, it's also about force protection, escalation dominance and the medical evacuation ladder. It must always comply with that 10-1-2 standard. It's about those three things. So we do not carry out an operation if these three things are not properly looked at, and if that is not settled in the area where the stakes are, so throughout Mali, because that is what you explicitly asked for. So that's the answer I can add now. You also asked a number of other colleagues: will you look at the rotation in Togolese hospital again? The answer is yes. I have told you that in general consultation. One of the lessons learned from the OVV is that we have to keep our finger on the wrist constantly. That means we have to watch it all the time. Mr Voordewind still had two specific questions, perhaps three when I see it that way. The first was about the 81-millimeter mortars and their replacement. Mr Voordewind also asked for this in general consultation. I can say a little more about it now, so I hope he'll be happy about that too. I explained to you whether it was explained in a technical briefing that it was a pressure ring of the weapon. The mortars are expected to be replaced by week 5 of 2018, so that is end of January/beginning of February, the first week of February. This week's regular ammo take-up has all the means to destroy the rejected ammo. Then Mr Voordewind also asked about the follow-up of the helicopters, the air support. We have also discussed this in general. You asked me now, I thought, if we could give an explanation as to how that is going to be at the beginning of next year, if I could inform you about that rotation schedule. That was your question. The answer to that is yes. I also have a whole page answer, but I think it is better to say that the answer is yes. It is clear that we also consider this important. I have understood your message very well in that sense. So the answer is yes. Then Mrs Ploumen, who has asked about the modular system. You explained that very well yourself. You asked if we should not settle the planning with the UN over a longer period of time. We are prepared to simply take up that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u94	I did have three questions. The last question was whether there wasn't a medical member...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u95	Yes. The Minister knows that. She's about to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u96	Yeah, I forgot about him. I didn't answer the third question. You're absolutely right. We have already added an additional doctor with operational experience to contribute to employability, practicability and alignment in the medical chain. It has also been added to the MINUSMA mission and can therefore watch all the time. So the answer is also very specific in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u97	Just to be clear, which has been added to the mission, does this also mean that the doctor will regularly check in Kidal whether the hospital is still well suited?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u98	We're gonna look at every rotation ourselves, and we've looked now. In the consultations I have already promised Mr Voordewind and, by the way, everyone else that we will look again at every rotation. 'Cause that's part of keeping the finger on the wrist. Of course, we will also normally check that it still complies with what has been agreed. Because that's the only way we're gonna look for ourselves, even though it's friendly visits, to know if it's gonna work. In the meantime, I was checking to see if there were any other questions. Mr Van Helvert asked one more question on behalf of the CDA, namely whether I have my own balancing framework. We will therefore look again at every change. That commitment stands. Then I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u99	...two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u100	...the motions. You understand that I have the motion in part No. The rapporteur was Mrs Karabulut, who was opposed to the cabinet decision to send soldiers on behalf of the MINUSMA mission. I would therefore advise against this motion. On the motion in part No. I am much more positive than Mr Van Ojik's 357. The Netherlands is already looking, together with international and national partners, at what we can do more in this area. Today and tomorrow finds in The Hague... There sounds a beep. I have no idea what that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u101	That's Mr Öztürk with his laptop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u102	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u103	Or is it Mr Van Rooijen? Who is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u104	Find my iPad! It seems to be Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u105	Often it's Mr Öztürk, isn't it? Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u106	Mr. Chairman. I was in the assessment of Mr Van Ojik's motion on reducing the impact of climate change on the conflict. I said I was much more positive about that. Today and tomorrow the Planetary Security Conference will take place in The Hague. Here we are talking with 350 international participants, governments, knowledge institutions, NGOs and companies, about the impact of climate change on security and what we can do about it. Mali is one of the focus areas of this conference. The conference will, we hope and expect, lead to the Hague Declaration on Planetary Security. This declaration calls for support for climate-sensitive development in Mali. The Netherlands will, of course, sign that declaration. I would therefore like to take over this motion. I think I should put it that way, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u107	Yes. Then I'm gonna go see if anyone has any objection to taking over the motion in part No. Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van No? Then Mr Van Ojik's motion has been taken on board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u108	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be at the end of my contribution. I've discussed the questions and the motions. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that everyone who ultimately does not support the mission has expressed support for the men and women who are going on the road. They are indeed all people who are working in Mali at risk for their own lives, which also means a great deal to their home front. I hope that in 2018 the broadcast will eventually lead to a continued homecoming of all those who make their efforts there. Then I'm at the end, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-21.u110	The motion tabled will be put to the vote next week. I see that on the next subject the same spokesmen and the same minister will speak, so we will continue.
