ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, Mrs Swinkels, Mr Recourt and Mr Van Oosten, as well as the Minister for Security and Justice, to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u2	Madam President. Today we are discussing the initiative legislative proposal on the amendment of the legal regime of the Community of Goods. This time I can do so not only on behalf of the CDA Group, but also on behalf of the OSF Group. Let me begin by congratulating the initiators on the hard work they have done. Just before the installation of the new Lower House they can defend their bill in this house. I will build my speech along three lines. First of all, I will look at the question of what problem this legislative proposal should solve and whether the initiators have indeed managed to come up with a satisfactory solution. Secondly, I will review the legislative proposal on the points of legality, in particular legal certainty and feasibility. Finally, I will dwell on some of the tax considerations and raise the question: how to proceed? When it comes to the question of whether partners want to join each other in the wedding boat or consciously choose to live together, Dutch society is strongly subject to change. The article by Petra Kuik, prof. dr. Wendy Schrama and prof. dr. Leon Verstappen in the magazine Family and Law of November 2014. There they describe, among other things, the results of an empirical study conducted in 2013. This shows that the number of married and registered couples is about 3.3 million, while there are about 900,000 unmarried couples living together. It is expected that this percentage of 20% unmarried cohabiting couples will increase to 33% by 2050. The unmarried couples can, according to the writers, be divided into those who see living together as a trial marriage, those who see it as an alternative to marriage and the unmarried cohabitants who have been married before. Unlike before marriage, the law has no general rules for unmarried cohabitants, with the exception of registered partnership. This means that all kinds of property matters remain irregular unless a social agreement is concluded. Research carried out by the CBS in 2014 shows that children are born in more than 40% of the cases in a household where the partners are not married or in a single parent household. Why do I start with these figures, you will ask yourself, when we are discussing the change of the legal regime from an overall community of goods to a limited community of goods? I do so consciously to show that, even if this bill is adopted, the growing group of unmarried couples will not benefit either. In other areas of law, however, account is taken of the situation of people living together, for example in the area of rental law, family law, inheritance law, tax law, social security, criminal and criminal proceedings and the protection of adults. The question I would like to ask the initiators and the government is whether they agree with the CDA and OSF groups that a fundamental change in matrimonial property law should be preceded by a vision of social developments in relation to marriage and other forms of society. Can the initiators and the minister respond to this? These questions show that we do not want to assess this draft law ideologically, but above all to make it clear whether this bill is in line with social developments. The initiators referred once again to the study which would show that a majority of the Dutch population would like to replace the current system of the overall community of goods with a limited community of goods. Let me be brief and good about that. The mentioned investigation of Network Notaries among 3,000 prospective husbands does not convince us. This is a one-off study under a limited group, without any information on the current or planned new system. For example, models have been developed in notarial practice since the second half of the last century that meet the concerns of an overall community of goods. In particular, the exclusion clause for donations and successions of some magnitude is standard practice. The argument recently put forward that the House of Representatives is in majority agreement, so that the people would like to do so, does not do justice to the deliberations in this House. I would like to suggest to the initiators that this argument be justified. Only when the entire parliamentary legislative process has been completed can they lift or iron the flag. More importantly, the initiators did not answer the question of the CDA group in the further written input whether they were prepared to have a representative scientific study conducted among the Dutch population on how the matrimonial property regime is being considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mr Van Rij raises an interesting point. If he says that the House of Representatives is not representative of the people, but that it is a scientific study, does he then tend towards popular consultation or other means of expressing the will of the people? He is now raising this point in the wake of the parliamentary debate on a proposal. Is that the type of justification, legitimacy he's looking for? When will it be enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u4	I thought I had formulated it very nuancedly. The last thing I want to do is put the House of Representatives in a corner, as Mr Backer apparently read in my words. The only thing I have pointed out is that Parliament consists of two houses: the Second Chamber and the First Chamber. Only when the legislative process is completed here can you say that you have completed the democratic decision-making process carefully and properly. Mr Backer also expressed the opinion of the CDA Group on referenda and the like. Let's talk about that at another time. At least we're not that excited about it. Mr. Chairman. Would the initiators also wish to include in their reply the desirability of extending such an investigation to the question of whether better legal arrangements should not be made in the property field for unmarried couples and their children? In the explanatory statement, the initiators provide ten arguments why a limited community of goods would be preferable to the current legal regime of the overall community of goods. I'm gonna take a quick walk by them. The first point. The current main system of the general community of goods uses a wrong starting point by also making common what is naturally private: premarital property, inheritance acquisitions and gifts. That sounds theoretically correct. In practice, however, future spouses with some ability can find their way to the notary by agreeing a prenup. As has already been said, the exclusion clause has been introduced. By the way, can the initiators go into the position of the registered partners again? What do you think changes for them or not, if this bill is passed? After all, we are talking about 10,000 partnerships a year. The second point. There is support for the proposed system change, say the initiators with reference to the research of Network Notaries. I have just gone into that. That argument does not convince us. The third point. The new regime will apply to the younger generation and/or future generation and will enter ex nunc upon the entry into force of the law. This is what the young people and the so-called 'patchwork families', composite families and fusion families want, in particular. The figures of the CBS from 2014 and the aforementioned research as published in the magazine Family and Law show something else. More and more young people choose to live together consciously and in situations of composite families and fusion families, on the contrary, in a large number of cases marriage is no longer chosen. In short, you offer a solution, it seems, to an unfeeling problem and your solution does not contribute to a solution to the growing problem of the cohabitants. The fourth point. The number of divorces is increasing and the number of marriages is falling. The percentage of premarital conditions is nowhere as high as in the Netherlands, the initiators write. Apart from the fact that in two thirds of cases there is still marriage in an overall community of goods, this is precisely proof that those who rightly have to make a point of how to deal with premarital property find the way to the notary effortlessly. Those are the wealthiest people who can afford that, too. Furthermore, the decline in the number of marriages seems to be related more to the social phenomenon which couples consciously cohabit. Can the initiators respond to this point? The fifth point. In almost all prenuptial terms, including final settlement and wills, an exclusion clause is included by default. That must be the legal practice, the initiators think. For two thirds of the cases, that is not necessary, because they are well equipped because of the lack of private capacity. We refer again to the report Welvaart in The Netherlands 2016 of the CBS, which shows that the average household capacity in 2014 was €19,000. That is indeed a balance, as the initiators have rightly answered, but it shows, of course, that for the large group of Dutch people the question of private property is not at all at issue at the time of the marriage. Then why require by law that there should be three capabilities? The sixth point. One spouse may have assets to which the exclusion clause applies, the other may not. That is why it should be regulated by law. The question is how often that happens. Moreover, there is also something like a citizen's own responsibility. In our view, such a minor argument does not justify a major change in the system. Moreover, in future we will be faced with another phenomenon, namely the containment clause, for those who do not want donations to remain outside the limited community of goods. The seventh point. The overall community of goods also contains debts. For example, one husband could be unpleasantly surprised by the other husband when suddenly debts appear from the premarital period. That is a real point, as we have seen and experienced in recent years after the financial crisis. However, to change the regime as a whole is rather radical. Information on the existing legal regime could also help. Point 8. The Netherlands has an exceptional position with the current system. With South Africa and Suriname we are the three only countries that know a legal regime of an overall community of goods. If the Belgians had not separated themselves from the Netherlands, we would now have a limited community. Anyway, we're the only ones with South Africa and Suriname now. To be honest, I think that is a divisive argument, because the law of matrimonial property, inheritance and family law are, after all, typical parts of the law that are determined by the national legislator and, moreover, continue to evolve for a long time in case law and legal practice. We do not use this argument if the Netherlands wants a different legal regime in the area of euthanasia or abortion? The other two main forms in other European countries, which is the ninth point, namely the limited community of goods and the settlement system, also have the necessary exceptions in practice and are certainly not blissful. We fully agree with the initiators that the EU has nothing to say on this issue. However, we would point out that even in a limited community of goods in complex cross-border situations where private international law will apply, it does not really matter very much in principle whether there is an overall or a limited community of goods. The application of the allocation rules really does not make it any less complicated. That is why we do not consider this argument to be relevant. I come to the last point, the tenth. The overall community of goods is not necessary to leave the surviving husband cared for. The aim will be to ensure that since 2003 the Netherlands has had a legal inheritance law system in which the surviving spouse is legally protected. Moreover, this has been a codification of a long legal practice. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in a limited community of goods, there is a greater risk that, upon death, discussions will arise as to which goods and debts belong to what assets. That's what happens when there's three abilities. Should the legislator want that? I'll get back to you in a minute. The question remains, therefore, what problem do we solve now, except for that of the hidden premarital private debts, and for whom should the introduction of a limited legal regime of a community of goods take place? Can the initiators make that clear again? That brings me to my second point: legality and feasibility. It is precisely on the issue of legality that there are some interesting inconsistencies and open ends in this bill. As I understand it, there should be three capabilities. Three phases can be distinguished: premarital period, marriage period and postmarital period. During the premarital period, the partners, the spouses have own funds, if present. Such own funds, the balance of assets and liabilities, must remain own funds of the spouse concerned. Now, as the initiators have gradually come to recognize, see the letter of amendment in part No. 11 That many partners already have common assets before marriage, for example their own home, whether or not with a mortgage, but mostly with. For this joint capital, it is now laid down by law that those assets, goods and debts, will also automatically become part of the limited community of goods, otherwise a fourth capital could be created. Although understandable, this leads to that premarital joint capital being not different from the existing legal regime of the overall community of goods. Can the initiators confirm that again? During the marital period, all goods and liabilities in principle fall into the limited community of goods, unless otherwise determined by the aforementioned exclusion clause. When marriage is dissolved by divorce or death, the property community is divided. Here, however, there is the point that goods and debts which should originally be counted as private assets can nevertheless be transferred to the limited community of goods because of the presumption of evidence in Article 1:94 (8) of the WFD. Then you wonder: what changes in practice now? If, in the event of divorce or the heirs of the deceased, the spouse cannot prove that the property or debt belonged to the private property of one or the other spouse, then the same situation arises as in the current general community of goods. In short, you could say that this applies in practice: much ado about nothing. But this leads to a lot of changes. Moreover, the legal systematic sounds not all equally consistent. In our view, a number of problems remain with regard to legal certainty. For example, an open standard is deliberately chosen for the concept of reasonable remuneration for a premarital undertaking within the meaning of Article 1:95a (1) of the WFD. Literally, the initiators write that "the open standard will initially give rise to disputes." It is therefore deliberately chosen to leave it to the case-law to set limits. In my view, this has been very critical in the literature and also at the expert meeting. The initiators have answered our questions. From this I understand that an application schedule must be followed. The first question that arises is whether efforts have been made during the marriage for the company that has remained outside the community. The second question is whether there has been a reasonable remuneration to the community before or after that. The third question is whether Article 1:96 (3) and (4) of the WFD are applied. And the fourth question is whether a review of standard incomes is necessary. The question is justified, however, as to which standard incomes are to be considered. Wouldn't the initiators want to be a little more explicit about that? In addition, the issue of compensation claims arises when one spouse takes over assets from another spouse. The answers given to our questions are clear as far as we are concerned. However, with regard to Article 1:87 BW, the fee rights, we ask ourselves whether the answer given in response to our question concerning the combination of Article 1:87 BW, about the fee rights, and Article 5e AWR, about the taxing of those fee rights, is civilly correct. Has it indeed been the intention of the legislator to ensure that the increase in the value of the shares legally belonging to the assets of one spouse is passed on to the spouse who financed the shares in full? Is this also the intention in a situation of an sole shareholder in an e.g. where the amount he has followed on those shares was first financed by the bank, after which the financing was taken over by the spouse? Suppose the value of those shares went up, as in the calculation example to €820,000. Is it indeed the logic of Article 1:87 BW that this is legally part of the property of one spouse, but that the benefit is entirely economical to the spouse who financed the shares? That would be extremely unfair, wouldn't it? Then the poor enterprising husband "has worked for the cat's tail.The rich financing husband has an even stronger position than a bank, which demands a lot of certainty. Are the initiators quite sure that the given answer is correct? It states that the fee fee in the given example is €620,000, which is €820,000 minus the income tax of 20% over €800,000, is €620,000. Shouldn't that be $20,000? That would be much more reasonable, wouldn't it? I would like to hear the answers of the initiators to this question. Furthermore, the initiators admit that the increase in assets, three in total, will in future prevent the creation of remuneration rights. This does not improve legal certainty, even though Article 87 of the WFD provides better criteria since 1 January 2012. But should we change the law in order to promote more legal uncertainty and to enter into more discussions between spouses? That will certainly be good for the turnover of the professions of notaries and lawyers, but that is not what we are here for as legislators. With regard to implementation, the members of the CDA and OSF groups are not convinced that in the future spouses will maintain a closing administration with regard to three assets and the financing of goods obtained by the limited community of goods. All overlooking will in many cases involve invoking legal evidence when it is no longer possible to prove who what is what. This may indeed give rise to conflicts, in situations of both large and small interests. Emotions can rise high. The question is therefore what added value the new regime brings in the separation and division of divorce bonds or inheritances. Too easily it is assumed that in marriages husbands administer everything neatly. Maritals really do not get married to go accounting together over the weekend, with few exceptions. In our view, that really is an illusion. Also, the digital storage of bank accounts should not be expected too much. In practice, in our opinion, the use of legal evidence will therefore become the current practice. Then many spouses or their heirs come home from a cold carnival: they always thought that certain goods belonged to their own property, but in the end it turns out that they didn't. The question we must ask ourselves as legislators is therefore why we are introducing such a radical change of regime, which is more complex in nature but ultimately does not really change the current practice. This seems to us to be a typically sober question that can be asked in the First Chamber. Can the initiators and the minister respond to this? As far as the need for good and long-term information is concerned, we are not impressed by the strategy and plans adopted so far. There's room for improvement, the British would say. System changes only succeed if the population is properly prepared. This has recently been demonstrated by the Law on Deregulation Assessment of Employment Relations, which concernszzp'ers. Finally, with regard to taxation, we have the following comment. In choosing a matrimonial property regime, spouses do indeed have the tax consequences of the chosen matrimonial property regime assessed. This is mainly about income tax and donation and inheritance tax. We would have liked to have included in our assessment the letter announced by the Secretary of State for Finance. We find it particularly sloppy of the government that the promised letter is not yet here. Or something slipped my mind, for which I apologize in advance. Without this letter, we cannot make a proper assessment of the tax consequences, with all due respect, moreover, for the initiators, who have indeed answered all our questions in this direction. However, we consider it important, from the point of view of careful legislation, that the Secretary of State for Finance should also address the questions we have asked in detail. Tax knowledge is in the Ministry of Finance and not in the Ministry of Justice. Unlike the initiators, we do see good arguments for integrating taxation into a proposed legislative amendment of the legal matrimonial property regime and, as far as we are concerned, the introduction of a legal regime of cohabitation. The initiators have rightly replied several times: 'Dear CDA Group', you are raising something, but that is already a bottleneck. I admit that, but I would say that if you come up with a major change in the system, then take the opportunity to fix the existing bottlenecks also by tax. The initiators did not make that choice. The choice made is: it was bad and it remains bad on some parts. We will leave taxation to rest until the government has given a comprehensive and serious answer to our questions. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The question is, what's next? With all the appreciation we have for the initiators, we feel that this bill does not respond to a number of social developments in relation to marriage and living together. The legal regime of a limited community of goods is actually an outdated answer to a question of law from the nineteenth and twentieth centuries and no answer to the issues in the twenty-first century. Dutch legal practice has long found solutions to the problems that the initiators want to tackle, while the bill does not answer the rising problem of property relations among cohabitants, and that is a growing proportion of the Dutch population. In addition, the legislative proposal contains inconsistencies in legal systems, increases legal uncertainty and, in implementation practice, in the vast majority of cases, nothing will change, but a lot of unrest will be created. Then why should the legislator do this? A firm rethink is in order. There lies a clean task for a new government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u5	Mr President, I hope that the Chair will be lowered a little bit, because I cannot, of course, match Mr Van Rij's posture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u6	Help's on the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. The three initiators experience their penultimate day as MPs and it is honorable that they spend them here with us with legislative work. Appreciation is also very appropriate for the experts who have assisted the initiators at all stages, and that is in a very long time, and have helped to ensure that the legislative proposal before us, the broad one, I say again in the direction of Mr Van Rij, has broad support from the Second Chamber and from the now outgoing cabinet, which is present in the person of Minister Blok. I was present last Saturday at a wonderful service on the occasion of a marriage of friends of my daughter's. Significant, but also cheerful. A young couple full of promises and ambitions. Of course, my thoughts went involuntarily to this debate and to what we are discussing today. For was that conscious choice for each other also a conscious choice for a matrimonial property regime? Did they think that through? That reminded me of a famous opening line from an equally famous novel: "All happy families look alike, every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." Replace "family" for "marriage" and we have today's problem in mind: a legal arrangement to anticipate a happy marriage, but also a marriage that comes to an end. So a regime that should support a functioning legal community of goods, but also be able to bring partners into the best possible situation when unbundling them. Moreover, the proposal that the initiators are defending on behalf of the House of Representatives today is not very revolutionary. But it's a change. And personal and family law is a sensitive and complex jurisdiction, because it affects all citizens. Since 2003, several attempts have been made to achieve a small incremental improvement or improvement in this jurisdiction. They're all hard to get stuck. For where emancipation and this jurisdiction meet, traditional and unprecedented counter forces arise. During the journey, already started in 2011 by Magda Berndsen, the counter forces, those who reacted very strongly to this, were listened to and responded to the criticism and objections. In this context, I would remind you of J.C. van Oven's pre-opinion of 1927. A long time passed before the same Van Oven could realize the Lex-Van Oven, which was about the legal capacity of women. It is interesting to read back that debate. One of the reasons for resisting this was that it would be contrary to the traditional attachment to the legal property community. There would then be two captains on one ship. In 1956, that was finally resolved. What is the substance of the proposal? In the basic system which arises automatically, a greater number of assets of the respective partners will remain outside the community. Those parts will be excluded. The independent construction or protection of each partner's own funds already received now applies only to the spoiled goods, the goods covered by an exclusion clause in a will or in the case of a donation and the jointly built-up pension claims. The proposal extends the number of categories to include the premarital private property of Mr Van Rij. Let me summarize briefly, because it is all in the explanatory statement. This proposal makes it less necessary to draw up more than 100,000 wills per notarial act in order to keep the assets out of it. From a legal point of view, this is progress. If partners would like to decide to transfer these assets, they can, of course, do so. They will then have to pay a visit to the notary. This process towards the notary, in which they can also be informed as to whether it might be more desirable to establish prenuptial terms, can be a well-considered choice for the legal regime to a far-reaching extent of fate, such as the old regime. You can do that at the beginning of the marriage, but you can do that later. As partners grow older, the need to reschedule their prenup or exclusion due to state planning may increase and transform into a new basic system of a legal community of goods. That is not complex in my view, but I would like to hear from the initiators the confirmation that there are models in the notary who can bring about this extension to the old legal general community and that they are quite simple and not too costly to realize. If not, can these models be drawn up? I think this won't be too hard. Why all this legislative work? Social views have changed. The large number of notarial deeds and testamental exclusion clauses show that there is a growing need to protect inheritances, bequests and gifts to a child or to another family member who is going to marry from the community. Those numbers have all been mentioned in the parliamentary debate. There is also more capital in the country. Mr Van Rij has already spoken about this. When I look at the figures of the CBS and of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, that capacity increases with growing prosperity. The existing legal system initially separated little and its disadvantages have not been very visible for a long time. At the time of the divorce, premarital debts, losses in the sole proprietorship or usury policies come to the surface. Let me just give you a few examples. With more than a third of marriages ending in divorce, unfortunately in their own way, it is more common for assets and liabilities to be distributed. That is why, in the opinion of the D66 Group, this proposal is making three corrections to the existing system. The first sees the intention of the benefactors and donors. Legends or gifts are very personal gestures within the family sphere. The partner who receives this money or good will no longer have to discover that this asset is used actively without knowing it himself in the common property or in the distribution for the repayment of the other partner's corporate debt or for a study debt of that partner, sometimes even in a previous marriage, a debt that had not yet been repaid. In the practice of the caselaw, it is quite common for a spouse to have received a donation or inheritance from abroad, in which it was assumed, on the basis of the law in that country, that almost all countries around us have a different system that would be excluded from the community, whereas this is not the case under the current matrimonial property law. I would think that in the case of donations and inheritances there is more to marriage than the single loyalty to the partner. The benefactor, the bestower, had a purpose with it as well. The judge had his own intention and why shouldn't he be honored? They are also individual claims, and in my opinion and the opinion of my group, the recipient is not morally obliged to bring them into the community. He can choose, but he hasn't really been morally held to it. There can be talk of this, I think, in a lot of situations, of multiple loyalties that are legitimate weighed against each other. This money may also be used for the training of children or for children in a family of which one of the children is going to study. There are, as already mentioned, more composite families with children from previous marriages.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u8	In itself, I can fully follow Mr Backer with regard to the loyalties, but it is not the responsibility of the giver or giver. the deceased to the gifted or gifted person. Not to saddle the heir with it and to take on his own responsibility, for example, by including an exclusion clause? Mr Backer argues it as a justification for allowing the legal regime to be part of it, but is it not much more the responsibility of the one who gives or leaves it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u9	I think it's very different with donors and testamental decisions. There are, of course, inclusion and exclusion clauses now, but there are many situations where there is a intention of the lateer but it is ultimately up to the person for whom the money is intended to make the ultimate decision what to do with it. Here's my point that whoever makes the decision finds out that the legislator has already decided for him. Then he still has to get on his feet to perhaps draw up another prenup or make other terms of his own. I think that the automation with which this has been completely laid down by the donor or the person making a testamentary decision is too limited. I think that something should also be done on the receiving side. That's what the system sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u10	But especially in the case of a gift, is it true that the gifted person must also accept the gift if there is to be a legal gift? In other words, there is a responsibility with the donor and there is a responsibility with the gifted. Isn't that something you just have to leave to people themselves and what you don't want to take care of as legislator or government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u11	I find it interesting when, according to the CDA, something needs to be arranged and when, according to that party, the law should not intervene. I'll talk about that later. We often disagree on this. My group believes that people should decide for themselves, but on this issue it believes that the legislator should be allowed to intervene. That has a paternalistic aspect. That is something Mr Van Rij should address, but that is clearly not the case. I'll be right back to talk about that. At the heart of my argument is that the choice to regulate it in this way in the law does not affect or should not affect the link of fate. In our belief in marriage, there is always a balance between caring for one another, belonging to fate and caring for the development opportunities of the respective partners and children. This latter aspect is reinforced in the basic regulation. Mr Van Rij mentioned it: this whole issue does not address all kinds of other forms of society that exist and for which legislation should also be introduced. However, let me confine myself to what is ahead. This is what I call the "first correction." The second correction is more of a policy nature. The interdependence of each other's income and wealth has been reduced in recent decades by various emancipatory developments integrated into legal practice by the legislator and by the judge. The legislator has individualised matters in many areas. Think about social security, care, education. That was too much sometimes. We have had discussions on this in the course of dealing with a tax plan. The increasing independence of women partners in the labour market and the gradual reduction of pay differences for equal jobs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I find it remarkable that personal and family rights have been modernised in several areas, as an illustration: from 1 April 2001 it is possible to conclude marriages between persons of equal sex, but so far the emancipatory development has gone beyond the basic system of the legal community. As in the case of the lex-Van Oven at the time, in the exchange of arguments on this proposal, deeper differences of opinion on emancipation emerge. The merits of the family approach and the simplicity of the concept of "I have listened to this; I will hear it again in a moment, with the conclusion to stick to the old one. We discussed a number of experts in the preliminary stages at expert meetings. Professor Huijgen was very vocal there. Let me take a moment to consider a point he has raised in his pieces and also in the literature. That's actually "I'm just calling it what it is "the paternalistic premise behind the argument that the old legal system is better because it works to the advantage of the least self-employed in marriage." In the opinion of Professor Huijgen, this proposal would only be good for a small group of Dutch people with wealth. In that reasoning, marriage is actually becoming a capital redistribution mechanism. The logical warning is that this proposal will lead to a fall in poverty among middle-income or low-income people and those with low wealth or no wealth. He has published that literally, and he has repeated it with us. I think it's too important not to discuss it. Poverty trap, of course, reveals itself in divorce. Unfortunately, that is a common situation. However, I have to say that it is unique that I have to do so, that cause and effect are confused in this reasoning of Professor Huijgen. That poverty trap after a divorce is real. It is not or hardly mitigated by claims to the legal community. There is not much power to distribute, as the same Professor Huijgen also says. No, this poverty trap is caused by low income from the remaining single parent family. That's often the wife with the kids. The problem often lies in earning capacity, access to and participation in the labour market, and receiving or very often non-alimony. Although I sympathise with the idea of poverty, that argument immediately appealed to me; after all, anyone who does not want to fight poverty, I have reached a different judgment on the subject. I also believe that Book 1, personal and family law, should not be designed as a power redistribution. For that we have income tax and box 3. In abundance, I note that it comes from a very stereotyped image of marriage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u12	I listened with great interest to Mr Backer's reasoning. The situation he is talking about is about income, but is the matrimonial property regime no longer much about the assets to be distributed, for example, at the time of divorce or after death? Apart from the fact that in a divorce situation there may be a non-earning partner or a low-earning partner who is going to lose income capacity, I would like to focus much more on wealth. I have two questions in that context. Mr Backer says that power is increasing. I have here the latest figures from the CBS for me. These relate to the median assets of households at the last measured date, 1 January 2014. This shows that the capital has fallen from €52,000 to €19,000. It is also interesting to see how this is about the different age classes. Young people really don't have any power at all. You can see that the loss of capital occurred in particular in categories 25 to 45 years and 45 to 65 years. How does Mr Backer support his statement that the Netherlands is becoming so wealthy? Is he basing himself on the barely diminished wealth situation of people aged 65 and over?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u13	I suspected that Mr Van Rij, with whom I also debate the tax plan, would draw matrimonial property law entirely in the sphere of taxation, box 3 and capital building. I have discussed this subject on the basis of the principle of whether matrimonial property law should be a distribution mechanism as such. That was the argument not to want to change it. Mr Van Rij now tells me a number of amounts and the development of capital in the Netherlands, but I would say: be optimistic; participation in the government might add something to that. I'm from the optimistic school. If prosperity grows in the country and we divide it in a just way, wealth increases. Mr Van Rij can point out for a few years, but I would say that this may be because of government policy. He can also point out that the distribution of power is very uneven. The SP colleagues will immediately endorse this. That is all true too, but my fundamental point is that matrimonial property law is not meant for and should not be judged on the distribution of wealth between people, between households and in macrosynthesis. It is a question of what is a just outcome to the termination of a marriage. That is what my statement was about, and that is the essence of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u14	My question was not based at all on taxation and box 3. I only mentioned the CBS figures to show that, on average, the Netherlands has experienced a huge decrease in power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u15	What conclusion do you draw from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u16	I will draw the following conclusion. If you are going to talk about a legal regime of a limited community of goods, it is only relevant for partners that actually have assets. Those who have no assets are very few, as there is no difference between the overall community of goods and the limited community of goods. That was my point. I listened with interest to your entire paper on box 3, but that was not the point at all. The Netherlands has become much less wealthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u17	Is this a question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u18	That is up to Mr Van Rij. Mr Van Rij, is this a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u19	I'd like to put a brief question to that. Does Mr Backer agree with me that capital is the difference between goods, assets, minus debts? Does he agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u20	May I ask both gentlemen to keep to the subject, because we are getting a little too far off course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u21	If Mr Van Rij wants to make a review of this, he can, but I am going back to the subject. I come back to the points raised by Mr Van Rij in the course of my speech. The question is what is essential. We are talking about wealth now, but the possibility of impoverishment by sharing debts has not yet been discussed. That's why there's been a loss of power. The parties are, of course, jointly and severally liable, which is why the poignant thing is happening. Very often it is the woman who is haunted by a premarital debt of an ex-husband who makes sure that there is nothing to tell him. If there are premarital debts, they must be distributed at the settlement. To be sure, I have one more question for the proposers. When talking about premarital assets, does Article 98 include debts?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u22	I have a question for Mr Backer. That question has to do with the increasing number ofzzp'ers. The debts of companies such as those ofzzp'ers also fall within the community and are thus also extracted from the partner. That is not covered by this legislation. How does Mr Backer feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u23	It is arranged in such a way that if it is a one-man matter, the debt belongs to the one who made it. If it is a community debt that is now extracted in the common estate, this regime has the advantage that a party's own assets from gift or bequest, however small that may be, fall outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u24	I have pointed out that in the situation where azzp'er gets a debt during marriage, that debt is extracted from the marriage community. Is that a desirable situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u25	The answer is that this is not a desirable situation. This is also linked to the views on the proposal. Some of the common assets may have to be used to settle the debt. Under the current regime, this is entirely at the disposal of the debtor. I would like to put the question to the initiators, because then we will get the official answer. In the new regime, the equity of one of the partners is kept outside the scope of the new regime, i.e. donations and bequests, in any case, and therefore does not affect the debt. This seems to me to be an improvement. I would like to put Mrs Wezel's question through my input to the initiators so that we...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u26	And through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u27	Of course, Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna draw a preliminary conclusion. I believe that this is the right direction to take as far as I am aware of the concerns from the point of view of the objective by promoting the emancipation of the partners within marriage. This also applies to the feeling of those involved, a greater sense of justice experienced by bereaveders and recipients of inheritances at the destination of the property. Then I come to the middle heading "paternalism', where I have a look at Mr Van Rij. I'm not going into the division of a divorce right now, but I'm looking at a marriage, the moment when a long-term union comes about. The D66 Group sees this proposal as a strengthening of the parties' commitment to this important and, in principle, long-term commitment. That is the third correction that this proposal makes. Those who now marry, under the current system, are deemed to have "chosen" for the existing main legal rule of the basic system. That's what I was thinking on Saturday. From the practice of the large number of marriages with a legal community of goods it is concluded by some that I also saw in the discussion in literature that partners wanted that choice and also saw what they did. My group dares to doubt that. Partners generally do not see that on the wedding day without a prenuptial agreement the most far-reaching property regime will enter into force, but perhaps one will see it better than the other. The issue of the inequality of parties in making these commitments is very common in civil law, but it is very little discussed in this context. I find that strange and wrong. The consequence is that not the highest legal protection regime applies, but the lowest. You have to take action for it, and you have to pay for it. You have to be well-equipped to do so and know enough that this is the way to do it. It will do the chairman good that I have read it in the Asser series, 19th edition. In it, the editors comment on that parallel of the contract and marriage commitment. They add a recital worth quoting in its entirety: "the legal effects of this agreement are in any case much larger and more differentiated than an agreement normally entails." My question to the applicants is whether a party is in a position to make such a far-reaching decision. A step to the notary to make a prenup can be found unsympathetic or perhaps not even publicly negotiable. Both that insight and informed decision-making is more important than ever. This is also demonstrated by objective data from the notaries and the CBS. The situation for parties getting married has become much more complex at this time. More than nine out of ten people in our country have had a long relationship before they get married. The partners increasingly have children together at the time of marriage. More than half have at least one child living at home. It is also good to realize that about 20% of all wedding-goers have been married before at the time of the wedding. Of course, that percentage used to be much lower. Given the ageing population, it is likely that this group will increase in size. We've already talked about it in the introduction of my contribution that the chance of the marriage being dissolved has increased significantly, whether we want it or not. That is an objective fact. The legislator should therefore take into account what is the best arrangement to be able to run an independent household after divorce. With this proposal, the initiators turn the tables and give the parties a little support. During the preparation a number of critical points have been raised by science and the notary, which I will just mention as the capita selecta. Mr Van Rij also mentioned a few. I'd say they read the professional literature. A constant in all speeches is that it's complicated to unbreak a joint estate, but it always has been. It's always been complicated. Indeed, as Mr Van Rij rightly pointed out, more and more questions may arise, but they are settled with the help of evidence. That suspicion of evidence is of great value. This is also apparent from the case law. I believe that the initiators have correctly argued this in the reply. In addition, there is a good legal infrastructure for advice, mediation and dispute resolution in this country. It is well known that these disputes are already increasing in complexity. That is regrettable, but it is no different. It is all the more important that access to justice is guaranteed. One of the drawbacks mentioned is that more administration is needed in order to be better able to uncover. That's true. It is very important that information is given about this. At the heart of this discussion, I listened to this also in the previous speaker's speech, namely whether it is logical to say that this proposal is a deterioration because of the concerns about the failure of the administration. Do the authors agree with the D66 Group that this reasoning amounts to: better unjustly, everything goes in the big pot, but more transparently, than justly and less transparently? That is actually the essence of the argument. Do the initiators, and in particular the Minister, have any suggestions by whom and also how information by the government can be helped to mitigate the problems identified? I come to an interesting and important part. Labohm and Stollenwerck have written an article in WPNR (Weekblad voor Privatrecht, Notariat en Registering) about the distribution demand among companies. Professor Breederveld also mentioned this issue in an expert meeting. I refer to Article 95a (1) and (2) on the sole proprietorship and the settlement. There has been talk of the concept of profit and the question of what reasonably benefits the marriage community. The definition of concepts may be a complication, but I would like to draw a different conclusion from the previous speaker. I see that in the exchange of written documents there are sufficient grounds for legal practice to deal with this wisely. The same applies to taxation. This bill does not change taxation. It has been discussed in detail. As with all changes, there are side effects. They must and can be solved. The MP Omtzigt has, of course and traditionally, put intrusive questions in the House of Representatives. They have also been answered in depth and in detail. The same applies to the questions put by Mr Van Rij and those put by the VVD Group. My group has no further questions on this point. Then, of course, there is always a discussion about why this is necessary. This reflects the pluralism of democracy. This is also reflected in the literature of the professions, notaries, judges and lawyers. One thinks the proposal goes a little too far, the other doesn't think it goes far enough. A third sees technical shortcomings and a fourth sees them as well, but qualifies them as less serious. Our impression is that differences of opinion can be bridged and that additional legal arrangements are also possible for the proper implementation of the proposal. Other experts at the hearing endorsed this. If the proposers have any other insights, I'd be happy to hear them. The complication of one power to three abilities is a real point. In essence, then, you get a trade-off between justice and efficiency. This idea of exchange, which has been discussed in the House of Representatives in a number of critical collaborators and in an earlier stage of this debate, has been partially accepted by the initiators. The letter of amendment No 11 states that unequal justice of partners in the premarital community is converted into equal rights. That's such a concession. From the system of legislation, this may not be as good. In the round table of the House of Representatives, notary Brinkman and Professor Nuytinck also criticised this, but in view of the often occurring situation of partners with a common history, it is legitimate to opt for this because of efficiency and feasibility. Then I come to a point that also took place in 2003 and in 2012, referring to the Anchor of the Christian Union amendment, which, if I may say so, has been torpedoeded. That is the question: can't it be better? Mr Van Rij had a similar argument. There are so many problems in cohabitation and unmarried living together that there must first be a broad social debate about it. Yes, of course it should be there first, but let us try to achieve the incremental improvements that are possible now. In the House of Representatives it is also stated that a real free choice system is actually much more beautiful, because everyone can then presort. Or: then do it completely radically. In my group, this was also mentioned in the preliminary discussions, but here it is true: the better is the enemy of the good. If we opted for such a free choice, it would be a very different and far more radical proposal, which also brings with it a completely different system. Who's gonna have to advise on it? How is that supposed to work? Anyway, I guess everyone always has to go to the notary. In short, I would not choose to do so at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u28	That last sentence... I have, by the way, put my hopes in Mr Backer's words that it is better to be the enemy of good. In the long term, this could, of course, be worth reconsidering, even if we find that the restriction of the legal community of goods is not necessary at all, in the sense that they did not ask for it and they do not need it. If it turns out that for many people the old-fashioned, at least in Mr Backer's terms when I listen to his speech, the legal community of goods meets the demand much more, would he still like to opt for the choice model? Is that also something he gives to the Minister, in the sense that this is definitely worth it in the end in our common desire for freedom of choice? Or does he say, no, just trade one system for another?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u29	I'm trying very hard to listen to what you're saying. In the choice system, there is actually no legal pre-sorting. In the choice system, the legislator identifies three options. Of course, there are a lot of countries where there is no choice system at all but where you make an appointment per marriage contract. If you left the whole thing open, set aside all the old things and leave the choice to the person concerned, then there should be an infrastructure for how people should be advised about them. It could be. I'm not against it in advance. However, I also agree with Mr Van Rij that there is still a much larger debate on all kinds of life forms. In the House of Representatives, colleagues of mine have taken initiatives regarding the family of today. We have also had debates here about co-mothers. There are all kinds of developments in cohabitation that are going to play a role. It would be crazy if the legislator did not respond to this and would not be able to deal with such a proposal. Why not? My point is that I would like to make this small improvement first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u30	I will not prelude to my speech shortly after Mr Backer, but I am enthusiastically listening to him say that he wants to keep that freedom of choice open in future developments as well, and that we may be able to improve matrimonial property law. That's a nice note at the beginning of spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u31	Thank you. What I would like to say is that such a choice system should then be completely surrounded by guarantees. That may be very good for the notary, but I do not know if that should be the starting point. This amended proposal of law has been supported by the entire House of Representatives. Then I don't really want to talk about "better" alternatives anymore. We talked about this for a while, but we need to try to arrest this right now. It was difficult in 2003, it was already desired in 2008. I would say that it has only become more urgent in 2017. I'm taking a little trip abroad. The Commission on European Family Law has carried out an interesting comparative legal study. I refer to the discussion of Prof. Kolkman in the Magazine for Private Law, Notarial Law and Registration. Following a comparative examination, the committee came up with the recommendation for either a system of settlement or the limited community of goods, as is currently proposed. That is what this proposal is about. That is not harmonisation, I say to those who are suspicious of European legislation. It is only remarkable that the same conclusion has been reached in countries around us, because it is not at all in the legislative area of the EU. At least 220 million Europeans have been married not in an overall community of goods, but under the regime of a form of limited community as proposed today. Would this mere fact mean that they did not respect marriage and fate as much as the Dutch? Or is the system so complex that it is impossible to oversee when a property is settled?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u32	Mr Backer refers to principles in which, without exception, all married property and debts remain private property of the spouse. This bill means that the joint home becomes part of the marital community. So that is different from the principles to which Mr Backer refers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u33	Not one regime in Europe is exactly the same as another. Those principles therefore seek to establish a general basis for the most comparable system. So it's not one-on-one with what's being proposed, but it's the closest one. It's not that crazy. The German clearing system is similar to this. What applies in Belgium and France is very close to this proposal. I ask the initiators to include this foreign trip in their answer and to supplement or correct my question and the answer to the question put by Mrs Wezel. From the social-liberal point of view, the modernisation of matrimonial property law is a logical and too long delayed step. Let us decorate the business side of the marriage commitment as much as possible from the individual development in connectedness with each other. Let us influence the moral judgment on people's personal choices about how they want to do it as little as possible, but let us support them in doing it responsibly. I think that is what the proposal says. If this proposal becomes law, new cases will grow and existing marriage arrangements will continue to exist under current law. So they can very well exist side by side. It will be clear from our contribution that, from the point of view of legality, enforceability and feasibility, we believe that the proposal can pass the test of criticism. Despite our comments on points which could be improved, which should be developed in practice or on which information is needed, we would like to make this relatively modest improvement. We would not want to postpone it any longer. Despite this preliminary positive approach, we look forward to the answers given by the initiators. There are still a few points I am very much looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u34	There's a phone ringing. Now we hear birds whistling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the authors for their perseverance and commitment. Until the last week of the term of the present House of Representatives, they have been tirelessly engaged with an important privilege of the House of Representatives, namely being a co-legislator. Although I dare to say with caution that we will probably continue to differ on this initiative legislative proposal this afternoon, I would like to wish the authors and in particular the outgoing Dutch MPs a very good and nice debate in this Chamber. I look forward to it, too. The law states: "Consorts owe each other loyalty, help and assistance." But anyone who sees the preparations on a wedding day or attends the wedding ceremony itself knows that this is an excellent language for the legislator but that this does not fully reflect what the upcoming spouses have in mind in their marriage. One wants to continue together, for better and for worse, and hopefully expresses a lifelong destiny. For a majority of marriages, that is still the reality. The proposers today, with their legislative proposal, are considering the property consequences and present the bill as an update of matrimonial property law. In the BW are pieces that go through life longer without attention. In 2011 this Chamber spoke on this subject and new legislation was adopted. What has become so different since 2011 in terms of feeling in society that there is another need to change the law? The members of the Christian Union Group lack an eye-catching reason for new adjustments. Why should it lead to this far-reaching adjustment? In fact, the majority of married persons opt for the establishment of the legal community of property when they enter into marriage. A restriction may be made by prenup. This is particularly useful if there is capital, if there is growth of the property to be expected or if one of the spouses carries debts, but for many Dutch people the capital position is not such and they are spared the way to the notary, including the account to be paid for it, with the current system. 70% of marriages are made in the community of goods. Anyone here on the street asking what that means will get a reasonably adequate answer. People are familiar with the concept. It is precisely in civil law that the legislator tends to follow the prevailing view of society, but this legislative proposal does something else. The proposers even interpret that many of those 70% of marriages in the community of goods would be much better off with a partial community. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Union) does not yet consider the above-mentioned studies to be convincing in terms of representativeness. The new bill complicates matrimonial property rights for most people. There are clear signs from practice that you do not have to expect people to administer the money flows well during marriage. In practice, therefore, in many cases it will not lead to any less problems with premature termination of marriage. Why should you deviate from what is now widely known in society and is quite clear? The applicants have not convinced me so far in their reply. However, they recognise that husbands often do not properly administer the money flows that run during marriage. They therefore have the solution of the presumption of evidence, which means that if something is not properly administered and traceable, the property in question is considered to be Community property. Why would you change from basic regime when you're back to square one, when you've had to go through the whole exercise? What is the position of the weaker party within the marriage? How does this relate to other proposals that are in the pipeline of the Chamber and Ministry? I am thinking in particular of the proposals on partner alimony. I would also like to hear the Minister's reaction on this point. I am sure it is very kindly meant that in any case a majority of the House of Representatives, I heard Mr Backer say something about this as well, and I would like to see it as much as possible, but it is not always real and it often does not do the reality justice either. In many cases, the Netherlands is also a one and a half earner country when you look at cohabiting couples. How does this bill work out for the least wealthy party? In the case of debts, there is an advantage, but I am missing a numerical underpinning of the whole. Ultimately, the sum that will be shared in case of divorce is smaller. How is it prevented that the various legislative proposals stacking the least wealthy party in a marriage push further into poverty? I would also like to hear the Minister of Justice about this. My group is disappointed that the good idea of at least offering a choice between the current system, which we believe is satisfactory, and the limited system, which the proposers expect very much, is not being taken over by the proposers. That idea was suggested by Mr Segers in the House of Representatives. I am sure that replacing one system with another will not mean the cultural change which the proposers are aiming for. They want future spouses to talk more about the property implications of living together. Or do the proposers see it differently? If so, what do they base it on? What is the real purpose of this bill? Is that more space for the individual and less belonging, or is it really protecting people who suddenly turn out to be married to a mountain of debt, or who, in their opinion, have unfairly shared an inheritance? The Christian Union considers the present proposal to be a disproportionate solution to a sometimes real problem. More tailor-made work for the real problems could have sufficed as far as we are concerned. During the expert meeting which was held in this Chamber in preparation for the plenary discussion of the bill, several points were passed which concern my group when this bill comes into force. I'm just passing by and asking the proposers for a response. On other points, colleagues have already stood still, and I am also listening carefully to the applicants' replies to these points. I shall begin by adding an open standard with regard to a pre-marriage enterprise as suggested by Mr Subelack at the expert meeting. It has not yet been crystallised as to the reasonable remuneration to be paid to the community for the work, knowledge and skills provided. The authors already wrote in the note following the report in response to the questions raised by the VVD Group that new case law will have to be established on this point. That means a lot of uncertainty for the first few years. Then how does the Minister view the new open standard in Article 95? Is there a problem at this point at the moment? Or is there actually a new problem being created here? I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. The sad news is that all marriages end, but most of it doesn't because of divorce, but because of the death of one of the partners. The proposers have tried very hard to justify that this bill hardly leads to new points of contention or problems in inheritance law, but practice will have to learn what the new distribution becomes as children and longest-lived parents disagree about what falls under the private property and what falls under the community capacity of the deceased parent and the other parent. Can the Minister indicate more precisely what the tax consequences of this bill would be if there were less capital in the Community? Or does he still foresee that there where wealth is by means of notarial act the entire legal community of goods will fully resurrect? In that case, what is the profit of this bill? So I still see the necessary hooks and eyes and lack a compelling reason or a convincing added value to trade one system for another. This does not alter the fact that there are a number of points where the proposers face a real problem, and I appreciate that. I am thinking, for example, of the secret debtor who is going to marry, or of the problems with the unequal inheritance. A more proportionate proposal could therefore have received more sympathy from my group. Nevertheless, I continue to look forward to the answers of the proposers and to thinking along with them about solving those problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. The next item is today's legislative initiative proposed by the Dutch MPs Swinkels, Recourt and Van Oosten in order to limit the size of the legal community of goods. In the first place, the SP would like to express its appreciation for the efforts made by the initiators and other stakeholders in this legislative process. However, the Group of the Party of European Socialists questions the need for this legislative proposal and wonders whether it is the appropriate means of achieving the objective pursued by the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u37	First of all, I would like to address the need for this bill. By way of derogation from the current legal regime, the present legislative proposal excludes premarital private property from the community of goods. Only what is applied during the marriage becomes common. But it means that the property built up together for marriage falls into the marital community as the marital home. I wonder if the public still understands this. As the Minister writes in response to questions from the SP Group in the more detailed reply, the initiators want to make the legislative proposal more consistent with what the majority of the population considers desirable and what is more common internationally in the opinion of the initiators. Changing the basic system in matrimonial property law is therefore mainly a political choice. The initiators argue without justification that future married persons consider the proposed bill to be fair and therefore consider it necessary to restrict the community of goods. However, it does not indicate where the initiators base themselves on the fact that the majority of the Dutch population wants an adaptation of the legal community, on which they base the fact that there is a changed social reality, why a change of legislation is necessary, why the proposed legislation is the answer to the suggested changed question or on which the initiators base that the proposed legislation leads to an improvement over the current legislation. The initiators claim to have joined the notarial practice that spouses consider it normal that after a divorce they distribute what they have earned in common and that they therefore each retain their own private property. This category of spouses is probably still going to the notary for prenuptial terms, so why impose this standard on the rest of the Dutch? This aside from the fact that there are different views among notaries as to whether this legislative proposal will improve. I would like to hear the reaction of the initiators. In the opinion of the initiators, the proposed legislative proposal would be more common internationally. However, this reasoning is no longer valid because of the many changes made to the legislative proposal during the legislative process. I refer here to the principles which Mr Backer's contribution referred to, with no exception, all property and debts brought to marriage remain private property of the spouses. The primary bill was in line with the Belgian and French models, which differ from the current Dutch model. During the Second Parliamentary Procedure, however, this has been abandoned again, because the premarriage joint wealth falls into the marital community. As a result, the matrimonial property law in European countries remains a different patchwork. In our view, there is no factual basis and need to change the basic system. There is limited power generation in the Netherlands. Mr Van Rij has already indicated that power is even falling. It is limited to €19,000, so I just heard from him. The initiators themselves also write, under paragraph 13 of the further reply, that, especially in the case of long-term marriages, the initial balance will generally be relatively small. If there is a pre-marriage substantial asset or substantial debt, then there is already the possibility to isolate this property by means of a pre-marriage agreement. A discussion with the notary on this matter can be recommended at all if this bill is adopted. I'd like to hear the reaction of the initiators. In short, the need to adapt the current legislation seems to be based solely on subjective political opinion. I'd like to hear the reaction of the initiators. Can the initiators indicate what serious problem this bill solves? The initiators started with a bill that was in line with the model that has been working well for many years and is being used in Belgium and France. According to the French and Belgian models, all the premarital property of the person applying it remains with the supplier, thus also the jointly purchased marital property to everyone's share. During the present legislative process there was poldering, leaving the model of Belgium and France. Amendments 11 and 16 draw into the community the property acquired for marriage, including the marital property acquired for marriage, regardless of the own money that one of the two partners put into the house and whether the spouses owned for example 25% and 75%. If, for example, the parents of one of the spouses made a donation, it falls into that. How reasonable do the initiators think that both owners are entitled to 50% in the event of distribution, regardless of the share in the contribution? I'd like to hear the reaction of the initiators. What is the position of the Minister and the initiators of a novellle to undo changes as laid down in Chambers 11 and 16, so that all the authors become private again and the community of profit and loss is returned to a community of fruits and income as proposed primarily in the explanatory statement? Another changed circumstance in the present time is that the Netherlands now has more than 1 million zzp'ers. This number continues to rise. Unfortunately, the legislative proposal before us does not include the fact that the company, including the sole proprietorship, is outside the community. In the opinion of the SP Group, this is a missed opportunity. As a result, the partner becomes liable for losses incurred by the spouse's company and after the amendment and the replacement of the originally proposed Article 1:96 (7) of the WFD by the new Article 1:100 (2) of the WFD will be reported in a negative balance upon dissolution of the community. Could the initiators and the minister let us know if they see anything in a novelle to amend the law on this issue? If this is too complex in legal terms, isn't it better that every entrepreneur, including the zzp'er, should go to the notary by default for the recording of prenuptial terms as they already are? I'd like the response of the minister and the initiators. Indeed, the business section makes it possible for the entrepreneur to be misguided. With this bill, the entrepreneur's debts can be recovered from the marriage community and thus also from the spouse's part. The proposal before us does not solve this problem. I come to the second point that the SP Group wishes to raise. Is this legislative proposal the appropriate means of achieving the objective pursued by the initiators that only what is acquired by the efforts of both spouses during the marriage is due to both? A new model should at least be an improvement on the current model. Is this model an improvement? Unlike the current system, in which it is clear to everyone that marriage means that the entire property will be combined unless prenuptial terms have been agreed, the present system means a lot of complicated study work and homework for those concerned. Money flows are going to determine ownership relationships, and during marriage, they're all gonna get mixed up. For example, during the marriage houses and other goods are bought and sold again. There is maintenance and improvement of the house. As the marriage lasts longer, it makes it more difficult in the new situation to settle the community in divorce and inheritance. If there is no start-up and administration, this can have costly consequences. The experience of notaries shows that in practice there is hardly any administration, with all the consequences. The Minister also writes in the further statement of answer to the questions of the Eerste Kamerpriek van de SP that it is up to the spouses themselves to keep track of how money flows run during the marriage. However, practice has shown that spouses rarely do this and the initiative proposal does not oblige them to do so either. If spouses are unable to keep records of their assets and can no longer demonstrate the private nature of a particular property, the presumption of evidence of the proposed paragraph 8 of Article 95 of Book 1 BW shall apply. This presumption of evidence means that if none of the spouses can prove that a property belongs to his private property, the property in question is considered to be Community property. The Minister stressed the importance of good information in the further reply. Does the Minister intend to inform the Dutch people of the importance of drawing up a starting position and periodically keeping records and, if so, how? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Furthermore, the SP Group is surprised that the Minister sees the role of information as particularly important for the KNB and the municipalities, because this bill does not require any passage to the notary and the contact with the municipality about marriage will be largely digital. Perhaps he could explain this further. The expert meeting showed that failure to draw up a starting position of private property and failure or insufficient administration during marriage can cause complex legal proceedings in divorces and in the event of death. In the opinion of the SP Group, the importance of good administration and the possible discussion of what is and remains shared or private power creates a very undesirable legal uncertainty. For example, a husband always assumed that his private property remained private, but that in the divorce proceedings the private property was suddenly included in the joint assets. With the prenup, at least the starting position is fixed and the spouses consult with a notary about what is the best agreement in their situation. Recording the starting position is also modified with this bill by deleting Article 130 of Book 1 BW. People who think they can be satisfied with the proposed bill instead of a prenuptial agreement can come home from a cold carnival. Choosing this bill, unlike the current system, is risky in the opinion of the SP Group and thus not an improvement in the current system. Marriage conditions are in any case safer if the person concerned has substantial private assets or if the spouse has substantial debts, because they can at least prevent private property or private debt from becoming common. For example, the above mentioned corporate debts of thezzp'er can be considered. This provision already exists. This does not require the present legislative proposal. I would like to hear the reaction of the initiators and the Minister. We therefore wonder, considering everything, whether it might not be better to incorporate the bill into a more comprehensive bill. I would like to hear the reaction of the initiators and the minister. The SP Group looks forward to the reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u38	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD, I would like to thank and congratulate the proposers on this bill. Thank you for the hard work they have done on this bill and for bringing the proposal so far. During the written preparation we asked a number of questions. Thank you to the authors and to the Minister for reply. It was scientifically sound and it came soon enough to be able to discuss the proposal with these proposers today. It is customary for us to ask ourselves the question in a legislative proposal: is there a problem? Speakers before me have already asked that question. And, if so, then we ask ourselves: does this bill contribute to solving this problem? My group would like to answer these two questions in the affirmative. Yeah, there's a problem. The overall community of goods may lead to outcomes when a marriage is dissolved which are considered unfair. This applies both when the marriage is dissolved by divorce and when the marriage dies. All assets and debts go into one pot, and that pot is divided in two. This applies not only to everything that was built together by the husbands during marriage, but also to the inheritance, donations and premarital property. Half of them automatically go to the other husband. Moreover, it is possible that one husband surprises another with all kinds of old debts. They are also shared by marriage. These results have become more and more debatable. They lead to many prenup and exclusion clauses in wills. What's private must remain private. This view is fueled by increasing individualisation and by the emergence of patchwork families and social contracts. The classic role distribution is less and less addressed. These aspects are not sufficiently reflected in the overall community of goods. The problem is recognized by the notary, by the lawyer and by their organizations KNB, Network Notaries, the vFAS and the Dutch Order of Lawyers. They insist on research, but it is not clear whether more research also means more solutions. Waiting also brings no relief, because the same problem has been discussed since 2003, both in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber. The issue has been discussed in depth in science, with great commitment and a great deal of knowledge. Anyone who believes that the profession of professor or notary is a boring profession is wrong. But no communism opinio has emerged about a solution. The scholars don't agree. In this situation, the bill is trying to provide an answer: the limited community of goods. That's an answer with plus and minus points. Let me start with the positive points. The bill offers an opportunity to argue against unfair results of the general community, against the division and transfer of private property to the other husband and against unpleasant surprises by premarital private debts, while marriage at the time of dissolution is usually at a stage where the gun factor is not optimal. It is not mandatory to use the limited community. As it is with odds, you don't have to use them. The bill provides a means of preserving private property that can also be used selectively. For example: stand up for maintaining the house but not for the car. So it's not all or nothing. The damage to the other party remains limited. The proposal is against an advantage which is no longer considered justified. It doesn't put the other one at a disadvantage. The last plus is the story of private debts. In the current general community, a creditor can claim a private debt entirely on the community. The bill limits the story of a private debt to half of the community. There is also criticism of the limited community. A first point is that there is no free choice for future spouses. Would it be better to offer a choice between overall or limited community? My group believes that this choice is indeed there, already. The upcoming spouses can freely choose between overall community, limited community, all sorts of netting models or something else. All that can be arranged by prenup. In it, the husbands are completely free. A second point of criticism is that the spouses who want the overall community must start to incur costs in future, because they must go to the notary. My group does not share this criticism. The spouses who elect the legal community can simply refrain from administering. Then they can't prove what's private. Then the suspicion of evidence does its job. The private property falls automatically into the community. They may also waive a procedure. In all these cases, the overall community applies at no cost. A third objection to the bill is that it would only seem to accommodate the spouses. It makes the husbands who rely on a limited community happy with a dead sparrow. In fact, my group does not consider this opportunity to be excluded, because they will have to run an administration in order to prove what is private and what is common. If this is not possible, the overall community will be in place of the limited community. That is why there will have to be good information on a large scale, and Mrs Wezel has already talked about this, especially about the consequences of non-administration. Future spouses must be well informed before making a choice. It is a question of whose task this information should be included. Do the proposers consider this to be the responsibility of the government? Or from the notary? Or both? In any case, not from the municipal civil servant, as the proposers write. The civil servant has no knowledge and no duties in the field of matrimonial property law. Then we shouldn't burden him or her with that, either. We would like to hear the views of the authors and the Minister on this. In the Lower House is the Bergkamp/Yücel motion (33987, nr. 24) on neutral life-form education. The House of Representatives would be informed about this at the end of 2016. Can the Minister tell us what's going on with this? If, despite extensive information, the couples do not have an administration, that is their own responsibility. But even then it still applies: better a difficult claim than no claim. My group assumes that the most important assets, such as the house, are also administered elsewhere, by the land register, the bank or the Tax Office. It is therefore reasonable to assume that, although the limited community may lead to some disappointment, it can be largely administered and proven. The sparrow is not always either dead or alive. These are the two extremes, but in between there are all kinds of ornithological variants that can lead to legal nuance. With regard to jurisdiction, too, my group finds it difficult to make a prediction. The proposal seeks to take account of changing legal concepts. This suggests that there will be fewer legal proceedings. On the other hand, new dividing lines are added between the community and private assets. This indicates more sources of conflict and therefore more procedures. A critical point that is often mentioned is the similarity between the limited community and other systems, in particular the community of profit and loss. This one didn't function or didn't work very well. Similarly, the proposed limited community would wait for the same glorious end. However, it may also be that the community of profit and loss was offered little by notaries because there were better alternatives, such as a settlement clause. This assumption raises a further question: why not opt for this alternative as a legal system? Isn't that better than the limited community? My group answers this question in the negative and chooses the limited community. A settlement clause has no common power. The limited community knows that, albeit limited. What is built together during marriage should be in common. This is better in line with the general view of the law. Finally, what is a reasonable remuneration for the work of the spouse who has an enterprise outside the limited community? Nothing's been arranged about this. The authors write that this is a wide variety of things. Therefore, a wide discretion is desirable. The Court of Justice can clarify matters quickly. My group wonders whether it is not for the legislator to lay down rules and not a priori rely entirely on the judiciary. I'd like a response. All in all, in my group's view, the legislative proposal offers more advantage than disadvantage, although I must acknowledge that there are also uncertainties. Many suggestions for improvement have been made in the scientific discussions on this subject, in parts of the proposal and also in related areas as a result of this proposal. Is the Minister prepared to look into these issues and, if necessary, come forward with proposals? To sum up, my group welcomes this proposal, but calls for attention to be paid to possible improvements. We look forward to the reply of the proposers and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u39	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my admiration for the commitment and enthusiasm with which the initiators have prepared this bill and have so far dealt with it. The creation of an initiative proposal is a major task in any case, but in this case it is also a legislative proposal with a very fundamental and far-reaching content, namely the introduction of a new standard in Dutch matrimonial property law. This bill can have far-reaching consequences for many Dutch people. My group is not yet satisfied that these are essentially positive effects. We therefore have a number of questions and comments on this. This bill aims to make a limited community of goods the new standard of matrimonial property law. In other words, the scope of the legal community of property in matrimonial property law is limited in this legislative proposal. Only that which both spouses have built up during marriage will fall into the community by default. The premarital property, as well as gifts and inheritances acquired during marriage, remain private property in this proposal. At least that was the starting point at the time of the submission of the bill to the House of Representatives. The bill was substantially amended during the examination in the Lower House by letter of amendment. I refer to the first letter of amendment. Following reactions in the literature to the bill, the initiators have amended the bill so that co-ownership of premarital property, e.g. a joint home in which the future couple already lived together, falls after marriage into the community of property of the spouses. This violates the principle of the legislative proposal that premarital property remains private property after marriage. At first glance, it would be said that the change made makes sense, because the good in question was common and remains common. However, appearances are deceptive, because the community is far from colour: it was a simple community with shares and it becomes a marriage community without shares. This amendment has far-reaching consequences in relation to the existing Article 63 of the Bankruptcy Act. This Article provides that the bankruptcy of a spouse who has been married in the community of property shall be treated as bankruptcy of that community. Bankruptcy covers in principle all goods falling within the Community. If the infringement created by a letter of amendment had remained eightfold on the basis of this bill, the shares of future spouses in their premarital simple community would be one of their private assets and thus remain outside the new marital community as proposers and would not be included in a possible bankruptcy of the other spouse. The PvdA Group has already put detailed written questions to the initiators and the government on this section. In replying to that question, the Government and the initiators acknowledge that the Community's involvement in the bankruptcy of a married spouse in the community of goods has a detrimental effect on the other spouse. Although this other husband does not formally go bankrupt due to the bankruptcy of his spouse, the government considers that a "material bankruptcy" can be considered. However, according to the government and the initiators, this is not the result of the legislative proposal, but something that results from the system of the Bankruptcy Act. That is indeed the case, as I say on behalf of my group. However, this means that the bill amended by letter of amendment in the event of bankruptcy of one of the spouses married in the community of goods will in many cases be less favourable to the unfailed spouse than was the case under the original bill. In other words, the benefits of a limited community of goods in the event of the bankruptcy of one of the spouses have been substantially reduced by the amendment made to the legislative proposal by the first letter of amendment. These members ask the initiators to reflect again on the substance. In addition, the proposed new standard of Dutch matrimonial property law already has a number of possible hooks and eyes on which the PvdA Group is concerned. For example, we are concerned about the tax consequences of this bill for the surviving spouse when the marriage ends with the death of one of the spouses. In our written questions, referring to Professor Huijgen's input at the expert meeting organised by the V&J Commission, we asked the initiators whether in the event of the marriage ending due to the death of one of the spouses, the surviving spouse is in many cases worse off in the proposed system compared to the current system. The answer of the initiators is that they point out that the law on succession is not amended by the legislative proposal. That is a bit like the answer to the question of bankruptcy which has just been raised. Thus, the legislation does not change the system of inheritance law, but the initiators recognise that there may be adverse tax consequences in specific cases. All sorts of first relativizing and then complicating remarks are added and then the initiators conclude that with the proposed system the surviving husband does not have to be worse off. In their reply, the initiators completely ignored the quote that accompanied our questions on this section for a reason, namely the statement made by Professor Huijgen at the aforementioned expert meeting: "The current legal community is extremely popular. If we all knew that our marriage would end with death, every Dutchman with any ability always wants that legal community. Today, for older people, bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake bake. (...) The assets are then aligned, so that you get an evener levy of the inheritance tax." I would ask the initiators to comment on the content of this quotation. Another concern for the PvdA Group is the settlement problems foreseen by several experts at the end of the marriage. Both in the case of divorce and in the case of the death of one of the spouses, it would be difficult in many cases to determine afterwards what was the property of one and the other and what became part of the community of goods. Mr Subelack summarized this at the meeting as follows: "All this is not such a problem as long as people are married, because then it will not be rushed, but it will be a much bigger problem if they break up. (...) Only then will people try to reconstruct that puzzle and find out what happened to private power. My experience is that you really end up in the most horrible discussions. Because where it doesn't matter during marriage, it does matter during a divorce. The theory is clear, the practice will be much more uncomfortable. This is a choice that the legislator makes when this bill becomes the basic system of matrimonial property law. Then you'll bring in that uncertainty and that problem." In their reply the initiators then come up neatly with the rules, such as the presumption of evidence of Article 94 (8), Book 1 WW and the case replacement rule of Article 95, Book 1 WW, on the basis of which a conflict over what is who's who can be resolved. Subelack's theorem, however, was that the theory is indeed clear, but that the practice is more aggressive and that in that practice couples who break up will have the most terrible discussions about what belongs to who. I would therefore ask the initiators to consider these possible consequences of the legislative proposal in practice. My group wonders whether, in practice, the proposed system risks increasing the number of fighting divorces. Then there is nothing to reassure us that there are such fine rules of conflict and that in practice the judges are perfectly capable of doing so. Judges are disputes, and my group would like to avoid unnecessary disputes. The PvdA Group cannot in fact imagine that it is justified under the proposed basic system to enter into marriage without a notary's statement and without proper information on the matrimonial property regime and on the importance of conducting an administration. We understand very well that the initiators do not want to saddle all the Dutch who are going to marry with a mandatory visit to the notary. That would create a financial threshold for people with a narrow scholarship who want to marry. That alone would be extremely undesirable. In any case, we find it undesirable that people who consciously or less consciously choose the standard of matrimonial property law should still pass the notary. But the question is, as has been said, whether the proposed system is actually justified without a visit to the notary. We ask the initiators but also the Minister to answer this question. The aspects of the proposal that I have mentioned so far are the main issues for my group in dealing with this proposal. For us, these issues weigh the most today. However, it has not been said that there are not many other critical comments to make on this legislative proposal. I am thinking, for example, of the proposed Article 1:95a BW, on which Mr Labohm, Counselor at the Court of The Hague, recently wrote an intrusive article in the Divorce Magazine. He concludes that the sole proprietorship and the new article 1:95a BW may cause a source of problems for the entrepreneur and his wife. I assume the same goes for the entrepreneur and her husband. Labohm concludes with the remark: "Marriage conditions are therefore the advice and do not leave it to the legislator." Next Saturday, a critical contribution by emeritus professor of notarial law Van Mourik will be published in the Weekblad voor Privatrecht, Notataat en Registering (WPNR) in which he points out, inter alia, that paragraph 1 of Article 1:95a BW does not provide sufficient insight into the phenomenon of "enterprise." For the PvdA Group, the final assessment of this bill will be about whether the proposed new basic system for most married persons, i.e. in practice, has more advantages than disadvantages compared to the basic system of the general community of goods currently in force. We look forward to the answers of the initiators and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. You can see it all in front of you right there in the town hall. The wedding officer has added to the upcoming young couple some warm words and sweet wishes, very alive and charming. The bride's still tearing away. But then the official raises her finger warningly. Intrusively, she looks at the upcoming couple one by one and says: "Do you also solemnly promise to keep the receipts carefully? And do you also promise, for better or for worse, to back up your financial records? Remember, not just ministers tripping over receipts. Trust is good, but accurate administration is better." Marriage is an act of trust, and if you have too little faith in it, you better not start it. The wise Solomon speaks of the great value of a good wife, not of a good administration. The SGP is not enthusiastic about the present proposal. It has too much reserve and suspicion. It takes too much notice of the possibility to dissolve the marriage again without tears. It has already been mentioned: the First Chamber has discussed this bill with a number of experts. As is the case with experts, there is not a single picture to be drawn from this. However, a number of things were put forward quite firmly and critically. Firstly, it is noted that the current basic system is generally satisfactory for a large part of the population. The distribution of a disbanded marriage community is not often challenged. However, I am referring to the existing prenup lation on the question of who should be allocated a particular asset and what its value is. My question is therefore: what exactly is the problem with this bill? That question has been raised many times today. Do we not burden a lot of people who simply want to stick to the existing system of the legal community of goods, with additional costs? Without a doubt, this bill will provide a lot of additional work for notaries, but we do not have to cooperate in this. In addition, a system is now being rigged which has a number of very complex consequences. The proposed system has many features of a limited community of fruits and income. This is characterised by the fact that money flows are going to determine ownership relationships. It has been warned by lawyers that this is in fact hardly manageable. Those money flows run right through each other during a marriage. There will soon be three powers: private of the husband, private of the wife and common wealth. During a marriage, these abilities go back and forth from one side to another, without often being given too much thought. You buy a car, among other things, and virtually no one cares about exactly what he or she contributes to it. Of course, that is not a problem in a good marriage, either. The spokesperson of the PvdA said that just as much as it is, of course, when a divorce occurs or when a inheritance has to be divided. Then you end up in nightmare-like discussions, especially if for example there has been a marriage of 30 years. Both in the case of divorce and inheritance, it will be necessary to determine afterwards the assets of one and the assets of the other. The same applies to debts. We are talking about community debt, a private debt of the man and a private debt of the woman. Don't the proposers have any major problems in this regard? Imagine if the man did keep records, but the woman didn't. Didn't she check it out? This doesn't seem imaginary to me. In order to prevent me from being accused of wearing SGP glasses, I note that I know enough couples where the woman keeps complete financial records and the man does not have any feelings with them. Then that unequal situation also applies. How often will an administration be kept so thoroughly that spouses can show exactly what is theirs and how it is financed? I suspect this will rarely be the case. In many cases, the overall community of goods will fall back. It's often the same with a prenup. So what is the profit of this proposal? Moreover, do we not develop a system for which, in fact, very few people opt for a prenup? That doesn't make any sense, does it? Isn't a basic system consistent with what is common and what has grown historically? Are the differences in prenuptial terms not so great in the current context that there is actually no common denominator? Why did the applicants refuse to include a choice system in the law, so that couples can at least opt for the system that is most common under current law, namely one common power, without involving a notary? Especially in the case of something as personal as the interrelationships between men and women, freedom of choice seems to me to be a virtue which the proposers should have high priority. Are the proposers not making an ideological choice now, while it is reasonable to design a system that offers freedom of choice? Why this unliberal drama? How does the Minister view this? I would also like to ask the authors of the motion for a resolution to raise this point, in particular by further reflecting the CDA spokesperson on possible tax problems. The current legal community of goods is also popular because there is less inheritance tax. Does this bill not lead to many people getting rid of wealth by arguing that there was no private property at all? Are the financial consequences of this bill sufficiently well thought out? I would also like to put this question to the Minister. The proposers have put a lot of energy into this bill. I would very much like to take a positive view of the proposal, but its content makes it very difficult for me. However, I look forward with interest to the answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u41	Mr. Chairman. Since the messenger had to adjust the chair again, we should actually establish the list of speakers according to the length of the speakers! I would like to thank the initiators for this legislative proposal and for their willingness to defend it on the very last day of their term for two of them is even the very last day of their political career or career here. I would also like to thank the members of the Chamber who have provided additional information from different perspectives. I would like to take advantage of this to bring my group's position and questions here. The proposal aims to adapt Dutch matrimonial property law to the changing social reality by regulating that only what both spouses have built up during marriage falls into the community. My group supports this attempt to modernise: a choice of marriage does not necessarily mean that everything you have accumulated alone or for that purpose in wealth or in debt belongs to the other. It is also not always logical that gifts and inheritances automatically fall into the common estate. These have been the legal principles since 1838, and therefore the overall community of goods enters automatically. Of course, you can now deviate from that by arranging a prenuptial agreement, but that requires a very conscious choice, sufficient knowledge of matters and active action. In order to avoid, as far as possible, the consequences of the marriage after marriage, which they might not have liked, we believe that the main legal rule should be as consistent as possible with the prevailing social views. And they have undergone some changes over the past two centuries. The emphasis on the individual, right of self-determination and freedom of choice has influenced our view of marriage, and thus the material consequences of marriage. We therefore believe that the turnaround provided for by this bill reflects these changes better, and therefore welcome them in principle. It is clear from the long parliamentary history that many parties supported this turnaround and then fought it again. Fourteen years ago, the then Minister Hirsch Ballin himself proposed that the third tranche of the modernisation of matrimonial property law should provide for a restriction on the community of goods. At the same time, there was also sufficient support for an amendment that reversed this restriction. As far as we are concerned, it is a credit to the initiators that they have not accepted this and have responded to these changing social views. Moreover, the proposed regime is more in line with other European legal systems, which may facilitate marriage or divorce procedures with foreign spouses. So much for praise and basic support. But our group, too, is testing the enforcement and enforcement of a law in this Chamber, including this one. There are a few questions and comments on this. Firstly, the adoption of this bill will affect many people in the Netherlands, with different backgrounds. The profound consequences require that all residents be informed about the change in the system in a timely and understandable manner. The Minister has undertaken to adapt the public sector information, but also refers to the role of municipalities and notaries. These may indeed be key actors, but is the Minister prepared to say that the government will actively monitor the provision of adequate information, even if it is done by others, and will intervene if necessary if gaps appear? As far as our group is concerned, this bill should make the regulations and administration easier and the consequences fairer and more in line with what people themselves want. Those are the test criteria for us. The question is, however, whether this legislative proposal is certainly the case. In many cases it will be difficult to separate premarital property from the property built up within the marriage, or there will be shifts between the husbands' assets. The resolution of the dissolution of a community is likely to become more complex, lead to more legal proceedings and perhaps more conflicts, as has already been mentioned. Then a proper administration is crucial. Can we assume that people feed them, even before they marry? In both cases, the presumption of evidence is, of course, a legal safety net. As far as wealth is concerned, my group believes that this is a reasonable outcome, but in the case of private debts, or debts contracted by one partner before marriage, a lack of evidence could be very detrimental to the other. How can and will the legislator contribute to ensuring that the main rule in the actual settlement process is as effective as possible? Are people also sufficiently informed about the importance of proper administration and perhaps supported in doing so, for example with digital models or manuals, to draw up lists of applicants at the start of a marriage or to distinguish private assets when the community is dissolved? In the case of divorces, we are increasingly focusing on less interference from a judge or government, because citizens have to be able to determine their own relationships. But if this proposed system change requires more action and administration, doesn't that imply a greater commitment on the part of the government to enable citizens to handle these matters properly? Not all citizens will be able to guarantee their rights adequately and not all citizens will come to a notary. Can the initiators elaborate on the implications of this legislative proposal on the relationship between government and citizens in this context, and on their support for the assumption that citizens can oversee the complex rules of three capabilities and adequately represent their interests? My group supports a number of questions raised by my colleagues, for example on the consequences of bankruptcy. In addition to being absolutely clear about this, it is also important that spouses who are not guilty of bankruptcy suffer as little as possible. My group notes that the current system does not fully protect this group either. Can the initiators explain again how the two systems, present and proposed, relate to protection, and how they could best be regulated? My group recognises that the proposal represents a radical change in the system and therefore raises questions and criticisms. This bill does not solve all settlement problems. It is mainly about the mechanism, in a way that does more justice to the prevailing social views. In addition, it does not affect the possibility for people to regulate the distribution rules differently. A choice for an overall community of goods is therefore still possible. As has been said, my group supports the proposed main rule, but it would like to be reassured on the questions that have been put today. If this law is adopted and the new system is introduced, my group would like citizens to be informed and supported in the best possible way, so that all spouses are aware of and feel comfortable with the distribution of wealth they have chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-7.u42	Does one of the Members wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
