ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u1	The minister's predecessor was physically having a bit of a hard time. He has been refurbished, but we now have a new minister in this area. I shall therefore give the floor to Minister Plasterk to continue the first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think there is indeed a state-law novel. I have not been able to find out whether there has been a situation in which, during the reply of the Prime Minister, there has been an exchange of views. It was because of the coincidence that my predecessor had to abort his response and the fact that, before he could come back to resume the reply, there was a shift in the cabinet. This creates the somewhat uncomfortable situation that some of the questions asked in the first period have been answered extensively by my very high estimate. I now have a number of remaining questions to answer and give an opinion on the amendments that are now before me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u3	It may help me to have my amendment to part No. 10 wants to move in. Then the Minister doesn't have to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u4	The amendment tabled by Mr de Vries (Doc. 10) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u5	Recapitulation: the bill concerns two subjects, both of which relate to the association of owners. Various social partners look with great interest, and rightly so. On the one hand, there is a minimum annual reservation in the reserve fund of the association of owners. This may result from a multi-annual maintenance plan. If not, the reservation amounts to half a percent of the reconstruction value of the building, as stated in the fire and storage insurance. That's one side of the package. On the other hand, there is the clarification and improvement regarding the lending by the association of owners. The law removes a number of uncertainties, which may help to improve the ability of associations to borrow. This is of policy importance, because it can stimulate investment, for example in energy-saving measures. That is a spearhead of government policy. That was the recapitulation of the subject matter of the law, but it seems to give rise to questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u6	I have a question about that half percent of the rebuilt value. For an average after-war simple apartment, like the one I used to live in in Rotterdam, you'll soon be at a rebuilt value of two tons. The cost of rebuilding apartment is often high. Then you already talk about €1,000 a year, while a lot of those sleeping associations are not saving anything together now. It's not so crazy in itself that you're obligated to save something, but isn't half a percent of the rebuilding value what much?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u7	I can well imagine the question. That is precisely why it is important that the alternative is to create a multi-annual maintenance plan. To those owners who think that this is too much, I would say: go to the association of owners and insist that such a plan be put in place. So I also see it as a fallback in case this plan is not there. Then this is a way of ensuring that sufficient savings are made. If you asked me, my advice would be: do not let it come to that, but create a multi-annual maintenance plan. Then the association itself is there to determine what is a reasonable budget in the case of the building in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u8	A second objection that people may have is that it is not just about necessary maintenance. When a roof leaks, you all have to contribute. A roof leak is serious. If there are defects with the construction, you can also imagine something. But sustainability? That's a nice hobby for a lot of people, of course, but a lot of people aren't waiting for the cost. Now people can be required to contribute significantly to all kinds of unnecessary maintenance costs. Is that reasonable for all these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u9	They are not required by anyone, other than by their own association of owners. These are private-law interactions. It is not the government that is obliged to do so. The association can indeed decide to contribute to energy saving. I think that in itself is sensible and desirable. It is also of greater importance that we strive for sustainability, but it is up to the association of owners to decide whether an additional wall insulation or an additional roof insulation is desirable, and there can also be a high return in the long term, because it earns itself back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u10	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u11	The department also attaches great importance to energy saving. I had also planned to draw your attention to Vera the Dog of the Trip. I don't know if you've seen the campaign that started today from BZK. For me, that is also a very new element in my portfolio. Vera the trekking dog and Simon the trekking hose include knitting patterns I don't make it up, it's all started under my predecessor now on the website. This can also contribute to energy saving. I promised my staff I'd get some attention to that after all. This was a run-up to answering the remaining questions. Mr Ronnes asked a question about the reserve fund and about bankruptcy. Mr De Vries has also informed us of this. I would like to point out that the association of owners can impose conditions on the guarantee that provide for the situation that a vve member sells his apartment right or that the apartment owner goes bankrupt. For example, it is conceivable that an apartment owner should always pay the debt before he or she sells the apartment right. It may be required that a third party, e.g. a bank, provides the guarantee. In addition, the law also provides protection to the association of owners. The contribution can also be partly recovered from the buyer of the apartment. Furthermore, in the bankruptcy debts to the vve have a special, privileged status. I believe that the association of owners is sufficiently protected in the event of bankruptcy of one of the owners or of the owners. Mr Bashir expressed concerns about saving. The answer to that is actually the same as what I just said to Mr Madlener, namely that if people are worried about it, it is right to draw up a multi-annual maintenance plan. Then the owners can decide for themselves how much will have to be spared. That's my advice, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u12	Nor do I see any fundamental objections to the amendment I have proposed. I said: if there is already a lot of cash in the vve, it seems logical to me that there should be an exception for those vve's, so that they do not have to save every year. I can imagine that if, for example, a certain amount per month has been deposited in a building with three apartments for years without looking back, there will be no waiting for such a multi-annual maintenance plan to come into operation. It'll take time, they'll have to hire someone, then they'll have to meet again. A lot of people have better things to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u13	This is all about public limits for private law. These are owners' associations. The association is private, those owners are private. I wouldn't want to oversave a ceiling. We have a legal channel to prevent savings and then the owners in association can decide to prevent this by making such a multi-annual plan. That would be my preference, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u14	I understand the preference, but there is also no objection to saying: associations that already have a lot of money in their pockets don't have to deal with bureaucracy and with plans and stuff. After all, they've saved up enough already.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u15	The objection is therefore that we will decide from this house that they have spared too much. I prefer to leave that decision with the owners themselves, in association. Mr Bashir and Mr De Graaf asked why the government was not going to maintain the reservation obligation. And Mr Koolmees had a question the other way, whether it is true that the association of owners and members themselves maintain the obligation to reserve. I do think that the answer is short: this is a matter of private law. We therefore establish the limits, and if there is disagreement, it is ultimately up to the court to decide. I do not see, unlike the setting of the limits that constitute the legal framework before the courts, any government task to enforce. That's not the spirit of this law either. With regard to the relationship of power between buying and renting apartments in mixed complexes, I would like to refer briefly to the extensive letter of 3 March 2016 that my predecessor wrote about this. Mr Van der Linde asked about the logic of taking into account a debt for maintenance of the apartment in box 1. We have now reached a high level in the area of my colleague in the finance sector. I have just informed the Secretary of State, in particular. Partly on his behalf, I can say that the logic for that is that I have to take a good look, it is far beyond my portfolio................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That is because the share in the reserve fund of a vve is a property right, which falls into box 3. A loan is a property debt and it falls into box 1. That is all I can say about this at the moment. Furthermore, I can answer Mr Van der Linde and Mr Koolmees that mutual agreements with this bill remain possible. They may, for example, deal with the way in which the reservation is made or with any contribution from the owner in kind. In the latter case one can think of painting or cleaning. Someone's gonna say, "I'm gonna wear less, 'cause I'm gonna do the job myself." This must be the subject of clear agreements in the association of owners. That is also the essence of this bill. Mr De Graaf's question as to why it is necessary has in fact already been answered by Mr Blok in the first term. I also insist that the responsibility for sufficient reservations lies with the association of owners and with the owners. That is, in my opinion, well-balanced in the legislative proposal. We have also just talked about the assumption that it will lead to higher housing costs. That's not true. The cost of maintenance has the association anyway, whether you book for it or not, and then you better have reserved for it. I am in fact at the point we have just spoken about: Mr De Graaf's assumption that the bill would require energy saving. That is not the case, because one can, of course, decide in the multiannual plan to do so or not to do so. However, the bill does offer the possibility of doing so. I would not find that in itself unwise and undesirable, but I note that there can be different views. But it is a question of how we decide. Mr Bishop drew attention to the care taken in the decision-making process regarding the granting of loans. He has also tabled an amendment to that effect. I shall come back to that in a moment, but the bottom line is that I think it should be up to the owners' association to opt for a simple majority or a weighted majority in the Rules of Procedure and that this should not be regulated by public authorities. Mr. Bishop asked if the bill would hinder the delivery of an apartment by the notary. The answer to that is clear: that is no. I assume that this is also the answer Mr Bishop is seeking. Also on the basis of the existing law it is already the case that the notary on transfer of the apartment must provide a statement on the contribution that the buyer will have to pay. I will conclude with a final answer to Mr Bishop's questions. He asked why it makes sense for an association of owners to regulate it in the rules and not in the statutes when it wants to exclude the possibility of a loan being made. The answer to this is that the law lays down the subjects to be dealt with in the regulations and in the statutes, and matters relating to debts, management and maintenance should be included in the regulations. In practice, however, the rules and statutes are often one document.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u16	Let me come back to the first point, the issue of borrowing. Perhaps the Minister will come back to it when he discusses the amendment, but this will save time at that time. Our proposal is to legally anchor that the bottomline is a two-thirds majority, i.e. a qualified majority, but that the association can decide by mutual agreement to choose a different standard. This is specifically intended to build in additional safety and care for those involved. I would ask the Minister to look at it again from that point of view, because it would be better to safeguard the care for people in such an association who might think differently about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u17	I understand the spirit of the amendment. This too is a process in which I noticed, entering this new area, how many different impressions are made from different angles, by the association of the associations of owners and by the Association Eigen Huis. These are different qualities for some of the same interests, namely those of the people who live in those houses. I think that the proposal as it is before us strikes the right balance. There is no big difference from what Mr Bishop is proposing either. He proposes to put it at two thirds and to offer the association of owners the opportunity to knowingly deviate from it and to put it on a simple majority. However, I would like to maintain the balance that is now contained in the legislative proposal, whereby the association of owners can in principle do so by a simple majority and also decide to make it a two-thirds majority. It's a subtle difference, and I realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u18	It is precisely because of the subtle nature of the difference that I would argue that we should sit on the safe side for the benefit of the members of the association. I understand the Minister's reasoning. However, I also understand that he would not wake up in the middle of the night if this amendment were to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u19	No. All in all, however, my advice is to leave it to the balance sheet as it stands in the legislative proposal, but it is not the biggest shock in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u20	I have a question about the guarantee. I don't know if the Minister's finished his speech. If that's not the case, I'll wait until he's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u21	No. I think I have finished my reply and arrived at the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u22	Does the Minister agree that at the time when a participant in a vve makes a guarantee or some kind of bail, it may be because of circumstances that may be due to bankruptcy or any other reason that that party's money is not readily available?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u23	It could be. I have just gone into the aspect of bankruptcy in detail. I think that is sufficiently regulated in private law as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u24	I am glad that the Minister says that he agrees with me, that it may be that the money from that guarantee is not readily available. Suppose you live in an apartment complex and the stove breaks down or the roof leaks, a repair has to be done and because someone hasn't made the cash money, there's not enough money in the pot. So what are we gonna do? Don't fix the stove and leak the roof? Then how does the Minister see the solution? Then how does that money come out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u25	I understand the line of questions because, in line with Mr Ronnes' first-term contribution, it is moving towards an alternative solution, namely an obligation to pay in. I do understand that it would be pleasant in this case if there had been a deposit. On the other hand, however, as legislators, you are going to force private individuals to deposit with an association of owners, while this may lead to the death of money that they might prefer to house in a different way themselves. Again, the obligation doesn't change that. We agree on that, too. If the question is whether it should have been deposited in advance and then placed in an account with the treasurer of the owners' association or whether it is sufficient that that obligation is there and that it is paid when it is really necessary for funding, I would nevertheless choose the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u26	Short, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u27	This is an essential issue. You are immediately in an association of owners, it takes money to do a repair to just function normally in your home and the money is not there because we have these theoretical models laid down. We think it should be right in principle, but it doesn't add up. The CDA believes that if we go for the joint maintenance of the building and there is a multi-annual maintenance programme or the 0.5%, everyone when it comes to a home should also do their bit. I hope the Minister will realise that we cannot let people live in a leaky house or in a house without a stove.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u28	No one wants that last one. The question is: there is a multi-annual maintenance plan, but do all residents have to deposit the money from their giro account in advance with the treasurer of the owners' association? Then it may be dead money for years, while private funding is needed. Then the owners have to go to the bank to borrow money, because the money they have, they had already deposited with the association of owners, where it might stand still at that time. Then I think you shouldn't want that, right? It is sufficient that the obligation is there to deposit if it is necessary. That can also be enforced if necessary when the treasurer says: now there really has to be paid. But I would advise against obliging all owners in advance to put their cash in the treasurer's account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u29	One more time, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u30	When it comes to commercial real estate, or parking garages, or someone who owns 100% of a complex, I can imagine. But if residents are jointly responsible for living quarters in a complex, then nothing is as simple as everyone just puts their money in the bag? That way, the money will be available if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u31	We agree on the need for the money to be available when it is needed, but the discussion is about whether that money should also be put in the bag if it is not necessary at that time, so that the treasurer has it in his account. Of course, that makes it easier for the treasurer to work. I understand that interest too, but on the other hand it is important that all those owners and residents might think: now a private financing problem arises for me, while my money is still your money that you have put into the association and is standing still in the Treasurer's account. So I understand the trade-off, but I'm just making her the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u32	I shall come back to this in the second term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u33	That's what I was gonna say. I have also been treasurer and chairman of an association of owners. Memories are coming up again!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u34	Maybe I can add some more to those memories. This is all based on bona fide owners, who play the game reasonably. Then I can follow the argument that you don't want dead money, but in practice a lot of the 250,000 vve's in the Netherlands have really serious debt collection problems because there are cottage milkers or people with less good intentions in the vve. I think that you have to weigh your interests: the interest of the person who gets money for his pants and the interest of the person who pays his contribution properly, but who is going to have a leaking roof and huge costs for collection and loses a lot of time before the necessary measures are taken. It's really a trade-off. Do you have to let the people who want evil get away? That is what this debate is about. It would be solved for me if a guarantee was immediately payable. If that kind of guarantee is allowed, I can live with it. But if the guarantees are not immediately recoverable, then the Labour Party also has difficulty with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u35	That's different from what we were just talking about. It is now about guarantees and reclaimability, while I understand Mr Ronnes' intention in such a way that he wants to be deposited directly into the Treasurer's account. That is what the amendment says, and I would advise against it. I understand very well what Mr De Vries is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u36	We may not have to go as far as Mr Ronnes wants, because I also understand the other side of the matter. But I'm trying to protect the V.V.A.'s where surgery isn't in the best interest. Then it would be very helpful if guarantees would only be allowed if the vve could recover them immediately if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u37	I am prepared to discuss again with the association of VVEs whether it is sufficient for that at the moment. I would like to say this in order to respond to Mr De Vries' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u38	Mr Madlener one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u39	I have another question, Mr President. Of course, it also goes wrong in vve's very often now. So let's not pretend that this solves everything or that it's all right now, because it's not. I'm well aware of that. In practice there are quite a few vve's, for example small vve's in porch houses, which do not really have a maintenance schedule. There is simply going around with the hat, four times a year a small amount is cashed, every five years there is once painted and that was it. That's a lot of them. Is something going to change for those vves who don't have a multi-annual maintenance plan, but who, for example, just paint once every five years and who drop a few times a year into the greenhouse?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u40	The nature of a multi-annual maintenance plan can, in short, be about what Mr Madlener says here: we are going to paint once every five years, we are going to put some money in the pot for small repairs and this is the budget that is reserved for that every year. It doesn't have to be any harder than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u41	Okay, that's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u42	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u43	I come to the amendments that we have indeed discussed in part in the event of interruption, for example the Amendment No. Mr Ronnes (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 9 by Mr Bashir on saving. That's what I'm telling you. So is the amendment on item No. 11. Mr Bishop said that we would save ourselves time by discussing this with each other in the event of interruption. I also understand the other weighting he makes. Since this is still the first term, I leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u44	That is why, with the delay we had at the time, we came to the end of the first period. I would like to continue with the second time-limit; a two- or two-and-a-half minute speaking time should be sufficient for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr. Chairman. The interruption has already made it clear that the Labour Party considers the CDA's amendment to be too far on the one hand. On the other hand, we attach great importance to the protection of people who do properly comply with the rules, and to the fact that, if there is a solution to the major debt collection problems, which are really the case in many cases, the Minister must speak to the aldermen who have experience with them, even if guarantees have been issued, so that the tax collection problems are solved. I withdrew my amendment. Instead, I would like to table a motion on how decisions are taken on sustainability that has a short payback period. The first criticism was that I would like to declare it applicable only to vves. This motion has a broader scope and a complex approach. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the achievement of the energy saving objectives of the built environment requires considerable efforts;]] [[Whereas, in the case of complex approaches, the requirement for a qualified majority may also prevent investment that can be made back within a reasonable time from taking place;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether relevant legislation and regulations can provide for a simple majority of decision-making procedures for complex projects that can be proven to be recouped within 10 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34479-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u46	Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister confirm that the value of the membership right has no influence whatsoever on the WPA value? If the property is valued higher by a larger reserve fund, the taxpayer is taxed both in box 1 and in box 3 for the share of the fund. Wouldn't it be much more just to exempt this membership in box 3? I come to the amendment which has just been discussed extensively in the event of interruption. I'm gonna keep seeing problems if we don't take care of that right. A very large majority of the VVEs have a nice multi-annual maintenance schedule and also nicely pays their money. However, we are talking about the group where the payment problems are, where participants fail to fulfil their obligations. I would urge the Minister to do so. He just mentioned the amendment to item No. 9, but I believe that this has now been replaced by an amended amendment, which amends the regulation of the VCEs in such a way that, as far as housing is concerned, the money is transferred at the time it is customary and no longer in the case of guarantees. When it comes to commercial vve's, with shops or car parks, we would not want that to apply. That is why I am asking you to take a closer look at the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u47	Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of vve's where things are going well, but unfortunately there are too many vve's where things are not going well. This bill is, of course, intended to tackle the problems in the VVEs where it is not going well. Unfortunately, we see that the measures taken are a little too soft. There will be an obligation to save annually. The vves where things are going well will keep to the law and to the agreements and will continue to deposit, but the vves where things are not going well will continue to abstain from the obligation to deposit. Nor is it maintained, so yes, then they can also be released from that obligation. Then there's also something like saving up. We have tabled an amendment which regulates the prevention of oversavings. I would ask the Secretary of State to exempt vves who are in good shape and who have their affairs in order from the obligation to save if they already have enough money in their pockets. Vve's where they're doing well, they're depositing money nicely, but we want everyone to deposit money. Then it would be strange to give people who are already under their obligation and do not deposit money, the opportunity to hand over a piece of paper that says "I have another building there, and if there is a deposit I will deposit, but now it is not necessary." I do not think that is a good thing. I think everyone has to live up to their obligations. If you have agreed a certain amount for the cashier, you must also deposit it monthly. We shall therefore support Mr Ronnes' amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u48	You also have vves in which there are only commercial parties, for example in shopping malls. How do you see that? Do they all have to deposit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u49	If the parties in the vve have agreed with each other that there must be a deposit, then there must be a deposit. If they have not done so, they do not have to, but apparently something has been agreed, namely that a certain amount must be paid each month. All private owners do that. Often there are private owners in such a vve, often owners of the top floors. They also fulfil their obligations, so why should commercial parties not comply with them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u50	The point is that there are vves where there are no houses at all, where exclusive commercial parties are present, for example at shops. They do make multi-annual maintenance plans and agree on how much money they will prepare for that maintenance. Of course, they're not gonna sink dead money into a vve. They want a bank guarantee. That's just business. Do you think we should ban it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u51	This is a very specific case: vves in which no private individuals are involved. I can imagine that the VVEs you're talking about are involved withzzp'ers. They also like the fact that everyone pays their bills. Eventually, the vve is about that, but in general I think it is important that everyone throws down what has been agreed. If Mr Ronnes' amendment can be tightened on that particular point, I would like to call on Mr Van der Linde to table a sub-amendment. Then the amendment will be tightened up a little bit and it will be even more beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u52	Mr. Chairman. The starting point of a vve is that owners take care of their business in good consultation. I see that completely in this bill. You'll meet me together to see how much money you're depositing. That means there's no risk of oversaving either, because you'll agree to that together. You make a multi-annual maintenance plan together. That thing is shape-free, so even if you put two lines on paper, it's still a multi-annual maintenance plan. So there's no punishment if you don't follow the rules and take care of your business in good consultation. I think that's perfectly normal. But if your neighbor doesn't do anything and doesn't want to do anything, then this proposal offers a hook to go to court and get you right there. I think that too is perfectly normal. The conclusion of the VVD is therefore: normal. Do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u53	I see that Mr Madlener is refusing a second-term contribution. The same applies to Mr Koolmees and Mr Bishop. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for his answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u54	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the motion in part No. 14 by Mr De Vries. It calls on the government to look at legislative and regulatory measures to accelerate energy savings in apartment complexes. If the question can also be interpreted in such a way that there are other ways of achieving that objective in addition to regulation, then I leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber. I have just mentioned a number of these measures. For the sake of clarity, I would therefore like to refer to the dog and other measures which also seek to change behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u55	Would you like to say something about this motion, Mr Madlener?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u56	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm having trouble with this anyway. This motion can now be adopted, and this Minister agrees with it, but the sustainability of housing is often a very big money issue. Those are not small amounts; they are huge amounts. If you live in a complex and you don't have that money and you're forced to put huge amounts of money on the table in this way, that leads to huge problems. We must, of course, avoid that. How does the Minister see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u57	It is not your motion, Mr Madlener, but the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u58	This is about the right of association. It's not the government that says that should happen. First of all, the government is asked to examine whether this can be regulated. So there is already a certain restraint in that. It is also a matter of simple majority voting. Of course, the owners in association are in charge of that themselves and they remain. That is why I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u59	I see the author of the motion, Mr De Vries, now standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u60	It's about investments that are profitable. For people who don't have the money, there are opportunities to borrow it and pay it back through the energy bill. That's the kind of arrangement there is. No one is obliged to make large investments. We're just gonna help the sustainability a little bit further. I think that is an issue that should be high on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u61	Let me get this straight. This is unusual, because it was not your motion, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u62	Something's gonna change. A qualified majority, a somewhat heavier majority, is replaced by a simple majority. So it becomes easier for apartment owners to impose expensive obligations on others. That could lead to problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u63	In the motion, the government is asked to examine whether the relevant laws and regulations can provide for a simple majority decision by the association of owners on cost-effective projects. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. If the Chamber asks me to investigate, I will. If the Chamber does not ask, another situation will arise. So I'll leave that to the Chamber. Mr De Vries and Mr Ronnes asked another question about guarantees which could be recovered immediately. Associations of owners can indeed agree that these guarantees are immediately recoverable. Many model regulations impose conditions on the way in which reservations are made. I would like to say this in addition to what I have just said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u64	Would the Minister like to make a promise that the word "bank" will be added to the word "guarantee"? As a general rule, a bank guarantee is payable immediately. If we can get this far, we're where we want to be. Then the money can stay where it is, but then it is also immediately recoverable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u65	I would like to leave it to the vves how they shape the guarantees. That's the spirit of what I said. I can very well imagine that this is in the form of bank guarantees. They can include that in their regulations. I would not like to impose it from here, but I would like to say again: I have sympathy for the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u66	The minister's getting over it a little too easily. At the moment when the ratio is that precisely the large party that has that share and a majority of votes in the vve determines the type of guarantee to be chosen, the two, three residents who live privately in one of those vve-dwellings have checked. Is that what we want? Does that mean that we want to give shape to the protection of those residents? I don't think this is the right way. Does the Minister think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u67	I have just said that I noticed that speeches of general scope are often illustrated by an example which is just one way in which to go. You can also say the opposite, namely that a majority of owners think it should happen like this while there are a few owners who constantly refuse to do so. As a result, a minority imposes it on the majority, and that is not fair either. It's just the example you use to make the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u68	I'll give it to you to do. You're in your apartment, it's leaking, the stove's broken, but the money's not coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u69	I understand that, but I would like to say the following. You have to go to the bank yourself to ask for funding for the car that's broken. In the meantime, the money you have deposited is in the account of the Treasurer of the Association of Owners, but you can't access it, while no one does anything with it. I give it to you to do! [[Sentence could not be parsed: Het is maar net welk voorbeeld je hanteert.]] Mr Bashir also advocated mandatory landfilling. I'm not surprised. The SP-Room members also have to make a mandatory deposit. The idea that you are obliged to deposit is not strange, but that is precisely why I am so surprised that the CDA is so interested in the mandatory deposit. You're not going to force people to put their tokens on that account if they already guarantee the contribution to the association of owners?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u70	This is a little entrapment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u71	Well, who's luring out now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u72	The CDA is for a fair economy. Where the owners' associations do not function, we try to regulate them properly. At least we're trying to give them the tools to get it right. I'm worried if the path we're taking right now is the right one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u73	I don't think that was a question, but a difference of opinion. That's okay, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u74	The Minister is also obliged to deposit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u75	Yeah, but we're socialists among ourselves. Well, that doesn't surprise me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u76	I'm just trying to make the bridge. We did talk about this last time, in the first half of the first term. There was a concern that was special about the vves in which there is one large investor and a few small parties: what happens if only a bank guarantee is issued? We now understand from the field that large investors are willing to pay cash in that case. That's not the big deal. At the same time, therefore, I came up with the point of shopping malls.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... I can tell that we feel like making sure that people are properly discharged when it comes to housing. Then there's no fuss. I am still concerned with the point you are making with the gentleman or the lady who prefers to mop the hallway instead of paying money. We should be able to work towards something where we agree. I am looking at my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u77	This is exactly what our amendment says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u78	I shall confine myself in the opinion to the amendment before us. I've passed through the CDA on the left, so I see now. Sliding panels; that can happen. On the proposal before us, my advice is not to do so, and I fully understand the case presented by Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u79	Do you think it is right that we should include the expertise of your people afterwards, to see if we can turn that amendment into something that has broad support? I do have broad support for the idea behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u80	You can always do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u81	Yes, but that deprives Mr Van der Linde of the opportunity to receive my opinion in plenary. Let me look at the President, with the question of how she imagines it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u82	If you could just discuss that with each other and let us know in writing what the outcome is, when you're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u83	Then we'll do it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u84	That's what I'm saying, looking at the faces and what I hear, because I'm just listening. I'd try, and you could always respond. The first vote will be on Tuesday and the next vote will be on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u85	The motto of this cabinet is: building bridges. In this context, I am touched by Mr Van der Linde's contribution. We'll see if that bridge can be made. I will also send my opinion to the Chamber on any amended amendment. I can close with that. Thank you for the wide-ranging debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-12.u86	I would like to thank Minister Plasterk and his colleagues. There are still some contacts, including with the Minister, about that one amendment, I understand. The votes will be Tuesday or Thursday, if it takes a little more time, but that is up to you.
