ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Children's casinos are shooting out of the ground like mushrooms right now. After Utrecht and Kerkrade, such a game centre has recently been opened in Rotterdam. We even have the doubtful honour of having the largest location in the Benelux in our country. They are gambling palaces with a "play and win" concept. In the arcade halls of Gamestate is not an innocent game, but winning tickets, jackpots and sparkling prizes. More appealing than a visitor who left a review on onetime.com I can't describe it. He writes: "We want more tickets, we want more chance and everything screams for us more, more, more! We see in our eye corners that we are not the only ones and especially the children cannot be kept. They play the machines as enthusiastic and passionate gamblers. We look at each other and say the same thing: a children's casino. You're just trained here to play the slots when you're legally old enough to do so. What am I saying, you're just sitting here in a casino. You can play the machines all with credits you buy and you win prizes if you do it right." This review ends in a concerned tone. The CDA is also very concerned about what is going on here. Sometimes these are 10-year-olds. Over 12, they don't even have to go there with guidance. Children are very sensitive to this. That is why the CDA groups in both Rotterdam and Utrecht have spoken about this. We're hanging out with them. We see children being trained here to be experienced gamblers. Gambling addiction is a major problem in our society. Nor is it without reason that we limit ourselves to rules that casinos have to comply with. There is no need to meet this requirement. That's a big concern. I'd like to get a response from our secretary of state.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is right that Mrs Van Toorenburg should mention this. I actually share that concern when I read that article. I also looked at the site. If you don't focus on kids, maybe you shouldn't have three of your four buttons called "childhood parties." I don't know any adults who have children's parties together, so you just focus on kids. There is more to it than agility games. In a game of dexterity you can only win extra playing time or, with a pinball machine, an extra ball. There seems to be some use here of the rules that apply to fairground games. Then you need at least a local carnival license that should be permanent in this case. I think it is wise that local enquiries have been made at the municipal councils. If the regime that applies to fairground games is indeed used, then we have to remember that this has ever been conceived for the few times a year that there is a short time of carnival in a municipality and not all year round. In 2005, Minister Donner looked at this issue with the question of whether the rules should be amended. At that time, other matters were decisive and did not happen. I think it would be wise for me to ask the KSA to watch. She's about the agility games and not officially about the carnival games. I will look, in consultation with the municipalities concerned, to see if there is any kind of misuse of a provision for fairground games that we should do something about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-5.u3	I'm totally happy. I'm totally glad the Secretary of State shares our concerns. Can I give him a few more points? What we think is important is that there's a view of who's actually coming in. How are we trying to shape an anti-addiction policy? Will the people who work get an education? Should we not actually apply the rules for casinos, which are only accessible to people over 18? I had a debate with one of those operators on the radio this morning. He also said that they focus on people over 18. Then get to work with those guys over 18 and not with little kids. The Secretary of State rightly points out that this was once conceived for a carnival that was going around and where one could perhaps do a shooting game. This cannot be developed into a form in which we have become the largest in the Benelux. Incentives must be removed. I think closure under school time is important, too. These are merely encouragements for the Secretary of State to do everything possible, together with the KSA and the licensing authorities in the municipalities, to limit this situation. In short, a great encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-5.u4	That'll always help. We will take the points raised by Mrs Van Toorenburg when we discuss this. We will also look into whether the municipalities have realised that they have facilitated this by granting a permanent permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-5.u5	Great! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-tweedekamer-5.u6	I've rarely seen a Member of Parliament so happy with the answers. I thank the Secretary of State. This brings us to the end of the oral questions. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
