ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	I now turn to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66. He has questions about the report that the court is lagging behind. The question is addressed to the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Independent justice plays a crucial role in our rule of law. Many elements are important in a process, including care and impartiality. Another important element is the right to a treatment and a decision within a reasonable time. And that's what my question is about today. In the budget procedure of the Ministry of Justice and Security, a few weeks ago, I mentioned it: are the procedures in the Netherlands not too long? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the President of the Arnhem-Leeuwarden Court stated that his court was lagging behind. In total, 5,000 criminal cases are pending before the Court of Justice for appeal. Usually, cases are dealt with within nine months, but now it lasts more than a year. And waiting long is annoying for all concerned, not only for the victim and any relatives but also for the suspect. My first question to the Minister is how the Minister assesses the great backlog in the court. Does the Minister agree with D66 that this delay is extremely undesirable for the proper functioning of our rule of law? Mr. Chairman. I also wonder how such a delay can occur. The President of the Court speaks of 14 vacancies at his court. Does the Minister agree with me that that is very much? I also hear sounds from practice that courts, because they have a shortage of judges, are actively recruiting from the courts. I understand that they do, but that is how the problem of the shortage of judges is potentially shifted from courts to courts. How is the Minister going to prevent that from happening? And how is he going to make a general effort to resolve the shortage of judges? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Grothuizen that it is undesirable for the treatment of criminal proceedings to be delayed. This is not only bad for people's sense of justice, but also bad for the effectiveness of justice. It is true that there are delays in the court of Arnhem-Leeuwarden. Mr Groothuizen's question is how they arose. This has to do with a shortage of counsellors, but there are also a number of other issues involved. More complex court cases take more time, the planning of court cases is particularly complicated here in relation to different courtrooms and there are a few more reasons. The question is what is being done to catch up. At least 21 new counselors were appointed last year. An agreement has also been made that in 2018 assistance will be provided to the seat of Utrecht from the Amsterdam court, in order to catch up on matters. As far as active recruitment is concerned, I understand Mr Grothuizen's point that this might solve the one problem, but that it is making holes somewhere else. At least that's new to me. I will raise this in the regular discussion I have with the Council on the case law. It is, of course, up to them to make good agreements on this, but I think it would be good if we helped each other a little bit to overcome these deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you to the Minister for replying. It is good that he wants to raise the issue of competition, because that is what it really is. I do hear a lot of sounds that the more experienced judges in the courts are especially drawn by the courts. I do think that is an undesirable situation. I would like to refer two other matters to the Minister. More than 10% of all criminal cases are now, I understand, withdrawn by one of the trial parties just before the hearing. In accordance with current legislation, this can be done up to one day before the session. Courts state that that period is not actually practical. If a convict or a prosecutor withdraws his case one day before the trial, a lot of people have done their job for nothing and no other case can be planned. The courts are therefore in favour, I understand, of adjusting that time limit. My question to the Minister is what he thinks of that proposal and whether he is prepared to implement it. The second point is that I cannot help discussing the report we received yesterday on the revision of the judicial card today. In 2013, the number of dishes and parquets was reduced, and a number of courts and the Arnhem and Leeuwarden courts merged. We have seen the evaluation of this and the judgment is not wrong. Indeed, that evaluation shows that the average report rate given to that review by employees of courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office is a small 5.3. And the goals of the law, such as promoting specialist knowledge in courts or improving administrative power, are not seen in practice by many people. Can the Minister also respond to that report and does he agree with me that there is work to be done here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	The first is a suggestion made by the President of the Court, but which has also been discussed in the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Informal consultation has taken place and the text is currently formally before the Council for consultation. It was widely stated in the caselaw that the withdrawal ban for two weeks might ultimately have less effect than you would think. If, after all, cases were to occur and someone came to the conclusion that they still wanted to withdraw their case, the judge would eventually declare such a case inadmissible. The effectiveness of that measure was questioned at the time. In the end, another measure has been proposed in the legislative proposal now before us for consultation, namely to phase the process more. In addition, there is first the notification of the judgment. Then there is the possibility for objections, which gives a suspect a little more time to see if he wishes to object. If there are other suggestions in this consultation phase, perhaps also from the case law itself, we will of course take them with us. The second is the evaluation launched yesterday by the committee that carried out the legislative evaluation. I'll come back to that in the spring. I would, however, like to say to Mr Grothuizen that one of the key conclusions in that report was that this law should also have time to achieve its intended effect in practice. This may not have brought everything we had hoped for, but perhaps we should also opt for peace and time for implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thanks again to the Minister for replying. I must say that I could not quite follow the reply on the withdrawal period. I understood the President of the Court. If you've prepared a case and find out a day or a few days in advance that the hearing is off, I can imagine that it's very difficult to plan another case. He's talking about 10% space. If the Minister is going to speak with the justice system, can he take this point with him again to see if there is more to it than you would say at first sight? I am curious as to what the case law thinks about this in a broader sense. Mr. Chairman. Thanks again to the Minister for replying. As far as I am concerned, it is and remains a worrying situation for victims, for suspects and for relatives, when cases cannot be dealt with in time. In my view, timely resolution of a matter is important for the proper functioning of our rule of law. I will therefore continue to follow the Minister on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	I would like to return to the original point made by Mr Groothuizen, the problem of capacity in the courts. This problem also arises in the courts. I heard the Minister say he is talking to the President-in-Office of the Council for Justice. Would the Minister also be prepared to raise the issue at the Breda Court in that discussion, which is well behind due to a large number of undermining cases? Undermining is a very important subject. If that were to accumulate in the court, would he be prepared to make that subject also open for discussion there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	Sure, I'd be happy to. It depends a little bit on court to court. In the specific case that Mr Groothuizen called for attention, these are criminal matters. You are referring to undermining cases, but there are also courts where, for example, there are delays in civil matters. I also think it is important for the sense of justice that lead times are as short as possible, so I certainly take this into account in the discussions I have with the judiciary. In fact, we are now also working, specifically for criminal law, to see what we can do throughout the chain to shorten lead times. In spring, Mr Grapperhaus and I will return to this in a letter. It has also been a specific ambition in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	There are several problems at the root of this. A problem is indeed the way of organizing by the court itself. Another problem is the large number of vacancies, as mentioned earlier by a number of colleagues. I understand there would be a shortage of 227 judges in the next two years. Is the Minister prepared to write a letter about the problems? Last year, your predecessor mentioned a deficit of only 19 judges. I think it is important to have the problem well on the table and then to encourage a solution. Can the Minister, for example, take with him the possibility of raising the age limit for judges? If there is a letter on all these subjects, we can discuss them in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	I'm a little doubting a separate letter. This also has to do with the specific position of the judiciary. This kind of thing is also about personnel policy. That, of course, requires enormous reluctance on our part to interfere directly. If we come forward in the spring with possible measures to improve lead times, then perhaps this is also the time to look at what is specific to the case law and to what extent this has to do with deficits or other kinds of issues. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I thank the Minister for his reply. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
