ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven as the first speaker. Speaking time shall be four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today is Europe Day, the European project that brought us so much peace, prosperity and security. It is also a project that is in turbulent times. We are in the process of saying goodbye to one of the Member States, and that is a unique thing in European history. At the same time, in the heart of Europe, a progressive liberal has been elected president who fully supports the European Union. I think that is extremely good news, for France, for Europe and for the Netherlands, especially since upcoming President Macron wants to start working for a better Europe. Like my group, he sees how much better things need to be done. He is prepared to do so, while France has always been in the way of much-needed reforms in the past. Is the Prime Minister prepared to talk to him soon to see what we can do together for that better Europe? Think, for example, of a revision of the budget and of cows according to knowledge, the Prime Minister knows that phrase from the D66 Group. I can also add climate and, of course, refugees and security. Solutions for concrete concerns of people all over this continent. I'd like to hear a reaction to this. Then the Brexit. Last week, the European Heads of Government agreed on how they deal with the Brexit negotiations, and that is very good to see. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he sees any important points of discussion coming up. For example, as far as the mandate is concerned, we are talking about fair and equitable for all member states. My own experience shows that such a phrase is not usually in vain. Perhaps there are still some flags that the Prime Minister can help us discover in the text. Less beautiful, I must say, was the soap opera around prime minister May and Commission President Juncker. Misplaced jokes about the importance of the English language and the blackmailing of the European press. I don't need to know exactly what happened during that dinner, but let us as the Netherlands at least bet on two things: 1. keep a cool head and 2. be crystal clear. The four freedoms are indivisible, there is no room for cherrypicking and 5 million citizens are simply entitled to clarity. The 73.000 Dutch in the UK and 46,000 British in the Netherlands cannot have two years of complete uncertainty. That is why my colleague Verhoeven asked in the last debate to set up a helpdesk for Dutch people, where they can go with their questions. The minister then referred to the website of the embassy, but it was empty. There's something on it now, but what's on it actually means "keep calm and carry on." There are people who have been living in the UK for 20 years and are now told that they need to leave because they are applying for permanent status. At least that's not how you treat good neighbors. Can this be clearly indicated to the UK? Can people get personal advice? That is really important. So people are rejected in anticipation of the Brexit. That's not how we do it. That needs to be clarified. The fact that we are talking about Brexit on Europe Day and celebrating the election of a pro-European president at the heart of this continent, in my group's view, is actually a perfect illustration of the current situation. For the benefits of the European Union, you must consciously choose to defend them, and then you must consciously defend them. I hope the Prime Minister fully agrees with me. I have one very specific question. There is an infringement procedure in progress towards the UK. It is about the position of the 1.8 million Union citizens in the UK. It is not clear whether that information will be made public. Is the Prime Minister prepared to support the request for disclosure? After all, we can really do something for all the people who are in great uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u3	This does not say Kees Verhoeven, who was a spokesperson in the previous debate and accused the Christian Union of presenting nonsense about Strasbourg. The D66 Group in Brussels did support the same resolution. Does that switch now also apply to the D66 Group in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u4	I am glad that Mr Voordewind can see the difference, but if that also leads to a difference in vote, I will really have to agree with my colleague Verhoeven. One thing is clear: a solution must be found for Strasbourg. I had to pack those canteens myself once a month. I can tell you everyone wants to get rid of that. That's just a drama we need to get rid of. In the end, it's about making it work. It's not about getting a motion, it's about getting it done. I think that the probability of this happening is greater in the context of a somewhat larger package of shifts than with a very small package. But hope brings life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u5	Such a large package is likely to require very long negotiations again, while this particular point concerns an adaptation of Protocol 6 to the Convention. All you have to do is replace Strasbourg with Brussels and the EEA and EBA with France and stop moving. A child can do the laundry: the European Parliament has taken that bump. I wonder if the D66 Group will be voting in favour of the same motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u6	The D66 Group has long been in favour of abolishing the Strasbourg movement circus. There is therefore no misunderstanding about the objective. The question is whether the child gets the laundry done so easily with the French, because they have to agree to it. In reality, I am somewhat different from Mr Voordewind. But once again, hope brings life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u7	I see Mr Van Rooijen walking to the interrupting microphone. No, it's okay? Then I'm not inviting him to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u8	Mr. Chairman. Crying reactions in Brussels and Berlin last Sunday: France chose former banker and template for the successful French elite, Emmanuel Macron. The Dutch Foreign Minister also stated that France would have chosen Europe, and the Prime Minister talked about the choice of cooperation within Europe. France would have chosen Europe, even more so: for more Europe. But a third of the French did not vote or vote blankly. The extreme right-wing Front National of Le Pen is historically large with over a third of the votes. 43% of the Macron voters said they voted for him to keep Le Pen out of the door. 61% of the French indicate that they do not want Macron to have the absolute majority in parliament to implement its programme. He wants to tackle the labour market thoroughly, and already workers and trade unions are on their backs. Rightly, as far as I'm concerned. But Macron, for example, also advocates a European Minister for Finance and Eurobonds. Germany has already said that it wants to change the rules on the euro. Exactly how cheerful is the Prime Minister about that? And does the Prime Minister see Macron's victory as a real reckoning with Eurosceptics? Or does he also see that there is a real chance that, if Macron does not push his course for those who do not benefit from the euro and the Union, a truly radical choice will be made in five years' time? And what does the government expect from the consequences of Macron's victory for the Franco-German axis and for the position of the Netherlands, that a traditional Eurocritical voice can be heard in the European debate? Within four minutes, the Council adopted the guidelines for the Brexit negotiations. We were in agreement with that. But how much is this unity true or appearance? The commitment of the Council and the Commission is much harder than the Netherlands wants. At least, much harder than we have discussed here. There's a divorce coming up. The United Kingdom will bleed and pay for its exit from the Union. I mention Juncker's statements about Prime Minister May following the infamous dinner. But also the farewell account, which now amounts to 100 billion, while it was still 60 billion last time. The fact that Juncker lives in a different galaxy than my party is clear, but doesn't the Prime Minister agree that the Netherlands seems a little naive in terms of trusting a successful outcome? What is left of the cabinet commitment that we discussed last time? Looks like he came back from Brussels empty-handed. The Netherlands indicated that it would like to talk about the future trade relationship with the British as soon as possible. That is a good thing. However, other Heads of Government and Juncker and Tusk believe that there should be a separation first and that the future will only be discussed afterwards. Is the Netherlands alone or are there countries that support us, for example Ireland and Denmark? Are the countries in this Northern Alliance still gonna pull together? And, if so, at what points exactly? We would get a report from the mini- summit organised by the Prime Minister, but the Council report does not include such a report. On what points do Ireland, Denmark and the Netherlands go together? There is talk of a proposal for a bridging period after the divorce, for example as a result of Norway's position. What does the cabinet see in such a proposal? What would be the cabinet's wish? Nowhere in the letter do I read back about the Prime Minister's desire to get a smaller European Parliament, on which a motion has been adopted, or about a smaller European budget so that we do not pay the bill. Has the Prime Minister just spoken for the stage and kept his mouth shut in the European Council? Several motions have been passed. We haven't heard from him since. We do not know how the Dutch Government views Italy's proposal to retain the 73 British seats as supranational seats. I assume that the government will oppose this. Finally, can the government indicate how it deals with the motions that have been passed? I didn't hear anything about that. I am thinking in particular of the Chamber's vote adopted to call for the suspension of pre-accession aid for Turkey within the EU. What was the position of the Netherlands at the top? What was the reaction of the other Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u9	Mr. Chairman. The guidelines for the Brexit negotiations have been drawn up in harmony and at record rate in two, three or four minutes, on which the messages are still somewhat different. This first step in the separation process has been taken unanimously by the EU-27. That may not sound so exciting, but it's important. Unity is also important in future, but also transparency. Now that negotiations are about to begin, according to a clear pattern which is recognizable in the media, a scheme that seems to repeat itself every four weeks per subject, the question of how the cabinet, and specifically the Prime Minister, intends to involve the Chamber in the further development of the Brexit process is of course also relevant. I look forward to the Prime Minister's reply on this point. For the Council, which was not so exciting, the Prime Minister has created a little tension by bonding with his Irish and Danish colleagues, at least it seemed like a bond. From the report that has been sent to the Chamber, I have that word in my text in quotes, because it was very brief; Mrs Leijten has already spoken about it, and it is difficult to see what was actually intended. On the one hand, the Prime Minister writes that it was good to work together with the Danes and the Irish, because it concerns the interests of the Member States most affected by this. On the other hand, we should not give the impression that we do not want to operate as a unit, as 27. I see the Prime Minister nodding now. I am very curious to see how, between these two extremes, he will, on the one hand, join forces with countries which seem to have been or are becoming very badly affected and, on the other hand, the will not to disturb the unity between the EU-27 in particular. I like to hear that. In any case, the GroenLinks Group would like to see the Netherlands firmly linked to countries that are initiative-driven and leading within the EU. I say that it is not always Ireland and Denmark. That is, for example, the France of Macron. While the United Kingdom is turning away from Europe, the French electorate has embraced Europe, one might say. Radical nationalism - the wrong kind of populism, as the Prime Minister has sometimes called it - has lost, one might say. The Prime Minister noted that France has made a clearly progressive and pro-European choice. What will this choice mean for the Netherlands? You can find all kinds of things, but Macron has an agenda of ambition and decisiveness. Will the Netherlands join this agenda, as at least Germany seems to have done so far? Mrs Leijten said that the result of the French elections also showed something else, namely that 35% of the French voters who voted voted for the Front National. The electoral map of France shows that this is particularly the case in those regions where unemployment is highest in France. Yes, that means that the new Europe must also be a more social Europe and that tackling socio-economic discontent within the European Union must be given more scope than is currently the case. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? Does he also draw that conclusion from the results of the French elections? Over and over again, it is in the Brexit letters about bringing in the European Medicines Agency. I think that is what almost everyone in the European Union wants. It seems more important to me and to my group that we do not fight each other for an agency and that we pay particular attention in the EU to the major social issues and the common problems. So we should not be distracted too much by kissebis on side issues, however nice it would be if that agency would come to the Netherlands. I'd like to hear from the Prime Minister about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u10	Mr. Chairman. The European Union is at a crucial stage. The French have elected a new president and are actually demanding reforms from the European Union, even in such a way that otherwise there should be a flexit. The fair distribution of refugees from Greece and Italy does not come off the ground. The new British Prime Minister, May, is well-ordered for the election. In short, the EU must remain capable and credible for the other Member States. That is the challenge facing the European Union at the moment. I would like to mention the four issues I will address: the moving circus, Turkey, of course the Brexit and the reduction in the number of seats in Parliament. First of all, I will deal with Strasbourg. Mr Van Ojik ended with the fine words that the crazy talk about national interests must be ended in order to tackle the bigger story of what Brussels stands for now. This includes the moving circus, so the credibility of Brussels. GroenLinks has indeed supported this motion, unlike many groups in this Chamber at the last debate: VVD, CDA, D66 and Party of Labour. All these parties in the European Parliament have supported the resolution of Esther de Lange of the CDA. In fact, the CDA felt that the deadlock should finally be broken. Mr Verhoeven of D66 called it "a bunch of crap." What's bullshit is that we waste 200 million taxpayers' money a year on bullshit moving. That really has to stop. So I'm gonna go back and see if the Chamber can get on the same page. Has this issue also been raised at the European Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u11	I have a technical question for Mr Voordewind. Can the European Parliament, by resolution, decide to change that moving circus that is indeed what everyone is opposed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u12	No. Mrs Verhoeven knows that, too. No, Mrs. Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u13	I see that you miss Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u14	Yeah, he's probably somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u15	It is not my ambition to become Mrs Verhoeven; he already has one. I asked that question in order to make it clear that, of course, we can vote in favour of all kinds of motions or resolutions which give a direction, but we should not have the impression that it is settled by adopting or not adopting that resolution or motion. Whether or not you vote for a motion can therefore be determined by the question: do you think that motion is effective, does it help anything, or not? That resolution in the European Parliament, which was voted for so much, is also a signal. Of that you can say: that helps, sure. A motion can also be a signal that helps. You can also write it down in an election program. That helps, too. But it hasn't been settled yet. Maybe it's important to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u16	We can't control much more than the government. If we adopt a motion here, then we 'ask' the government something; it is always expressed in the operative part. If this motion is adopted, we would therefore ask the Cabinet, in particular the Prime Minister in the European Council, to work towards achieving what is demanded in it. That may well be a bit of a help in getting out of the impasse in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u17	It is interesting to hear here that one of our colleagues in the Chamber is wondering what is the point of tabling a motion. I think there is a very big difference between not tabling a motion and tabling a motion. This also applies to whether or not to be included in an election programme. It is therefore important for the Chamber to continue to tambourize on this subject repeatedly, and now also supported by the European Parliament, at least by a number of political groups. We are talking about 200 million on this subject, Strasbourg. We are also talking here tonight about the 600 million in relation to Turkey. Here we come, now and later, into this debate as well. It's about something. Motions in this respect serve to strengthen the movement, together with other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u18	This is all going to go away from your speaking time. It wasn't a question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u19	That was a joke, I suppose, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u20	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u21	For the sake of clarity, of course my group does not wish to underestimate the importance of motions. However, it is also important to point out this other dynamic, between a motion from the House of Representatives and a situation in Europe in which a treaty plays a certain role. We do not control the situation in France through this Parliament. It's a different level of influence. It's important to share that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u22	I experienced the time in the 1970s when Members of Parliament were also members of the European Parliament. Perhaps we should go that way again to strengthen the voice of this Chamber there, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u23	I think this is a very separate position of D66. I believe that we should ask the Council and therefore the Cabinet to take this position, not the European Parliament. Well, I'm sure you'd like that, but I don't think you'd want to make a decision about it. That's why D66 should support the motion here and not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u24	Right, right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u25	We are talking about resolutions, motions for resolutions and the proposal that Mr Voordewind wants to bring forward. However, a motion by Mr Van Rooijen has already been adopted last time. It calls on the government "to commit itself within the European Union to achieving a more limited European Parliament and a smaller European Commission, and also to end senseless moves between Strasbourg and Brussels." So, yes, we all support this movement, but this motion has already been adopted. So what exactly does the Christian Union want with another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u26	That's a good point. Mrs Leijten, the SP has always been in favour of this, but the SP has voted against my motion. That was very remarkable. We are, of course, all opposed to wrong move ments costing 200 million. Only, the question is, who's gonna fix it? In other words, who's doing a hand-off to France? Everyone is in favour of motions that state: stop it! However, the question is: how, through the European Council, are we going to tempt France to finally lift its veto in the Council so that we can stop moving? That is why my motion was different from Mr Van Rooijen's motion. My motion also contained a solution, at least a direction. The SP didn't support that direction. That's too bad. The SP did so in the European Parliament. But again, as I say to Mrs van Veldhoven, the European Parliament is not about it. The Member States must each declare their cabinet in their own parliament: do something with it, stop it, step over your own shadow, stop negotiating the EEA, try to convince France.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u27	We voted against this motion because we always have multiple motions, which we think are the best. We really think that the inclusion of these two agencies in the discussion might make it more difficult for the Council to get out and that it would be better to bring this issue into the European Parliament, for example. That is why we decided to vote in favour of the motion of 50PLUS. That motion has been passed. I thought we were just gonna strengthen each other. Mr Voordewind makes the suggestion that we do it this way and so we all make other suggestions. But we must then really instruct the Prime Minister to live up to what he promises here, including in Brussels, rather than come up with a new proposal again and pretend that we are the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u28	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u29	I therefore invite the Christian Union to abandon its good proposal and press the Prime Minister to simply stop Strasbourg. Because that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u30	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u31	Mrs Leijten also knows that this is gratuitous. The Prime Minister, like everyone else, is convinced that the moving circus must stop. Only it's an alternative. It's about what you're willing to offer France to eventually give up the veto. Mrs Leijten only goes for the familiar road, which costs nothing and which costs nothing for us either. She then votes against my motion. That's her right, of course, but it's not gonna do us any good. And the Prime Minister says, "Thank you, we won't have to vote for that other motion and we can just go on with this for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u32	You may respond briefly, Mrs Leijten, otherwise it will be a repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u33	It costs money now. If we say, instead of forming a front, 'I have a better idea' and 'no, I am even better', then we let the Prime Minister get away from Brussels. That was my appeal to Mr Voordewind. That there is a suggestion to meet France looks nice, but in the end we want that move to stop. And calling that "gratuit," I find a little weird in this discussion. We now finally have an adopted motion. Let's all get behind that for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u34	Briefly, in the spirit of the motion adopted by 50PLUS: the programme of the President-elect now states that in France the Chamber, i.e. the Chambre des Députés, and the Senate are reduced by a third. This indicates that Macron also sees in his own country that he has to work with efficiency. That is a very sensitive subject. I am not even talking about the double mandate that is still going on in France. This is being abolished, which means that a lot of Députés are now going to operate locally and not come back to the central chambers. But I would point out that this is also a signal from this President that he is going to see if he can do it all more efficiently, smaller and cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u35	In conclusion, I would like to say that Mr Voordewind's motion mainly moves paper and not a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u36	That was the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u37	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u38	From paper to...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u39	Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u40	From paper to parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u41	You may repeat it, Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u42	I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u43	A joke is always the first time it's funny!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u44	It's not a joke anymore if you have to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u45	I repeat it for Mr Voordewind: Mr Voordewind's motion moved paper and not a parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u46	I note that both Mrs Leijten's group and Mr Mulder's group and Mr Omtzig's group have unanimously voted in favour of the resolution in the European Parliament in order to put an end to it, coupled with giving away the EEA and EBA. I also note that there is a major contradiction here between the political groups, so I would say: hold an internal debate and let us set the clock at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u47	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u48	I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether this issue has also been raised in the European Council. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. I'm coming to Turkey. What does the Prime Minister himself think of the application of the Copenhagen criteria? The Minister for Foreign Affairs has said: let us investigate this again. Austria says stop negotiating with Turkey. Other parties, such as Germany, say: continue. The Netherlands is a bit in between. What does the Prime Minister think now? Can we not proceed to a different form of cooperation with Turkey? And does the Prime Minister say to Minister Koenders that there can be no Turkish death penalty referendum in the Netherlands? That's what I like to hear him say here. Then quickly the Brexit. The Netherlands has consulted Denmark and Ireland. I agree with Mr Leijten's sensible words in this context: what has come out of it, and was it not the Dutch commitment to negotiate in parallel? That is what we have heard before in the debate. Wasn't it the commitment not to get the bill all the way first, but to look at a new trade relationship at the same time? What does the Prime Minister think of the outcome of the European Council that there will be no parallel negotiations? So what concrete results did this little consultation with Denmark and Ireland bring? Much more important than this is the new Multiannual Financial Framework. If we do nothing and the British leave, we know this is going to cost EUR 10 billion. The contribution of the Netherlands would then increase by 16%. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what he heard from the other Member States at the last summit. Is the Multiannual Financial Framework going down from 2020? Is it indeed being adjusted because of the hole that the British are dropping? I know that the European Parliament is concerned with the reduction of the 73 free British seats. This decision must also be finally adopted by the European Council. What is the Prime Minister's attitude? We have tabled a motion on this and it has been adopted. What will be the Prime Minister's commitment? Does he fully agree that the 73 British seats should not be filled?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u49	Mr. Chairman. The Heads of Government of the 27 EU countries reached agreement on 29 April on guidelines for the Brexit negotiations with the United Kingdom at unprecedented speed and unity. That's a good start, but not after half the work. After all, we are only at the very beginning of a long and extremely difficult process. When we consider what should happen in the first phase of that process, my group wonders how long that consensus can and will last. On behalf of 27 countries, Michel Barnier will negotiate with the British on the rights of EU citizens in the United Kingdom, the fulfilment of financial obligations and the border issue between Ireland and Northern Ireland. He made it very clear last week that he's taking it hard. In turn, the British Prime Minister, Mr May, indicated that she did not intend to be messed with. In short, the knives are sharpened, as de Volkskrant wrote strikingly last week. That's the way it goes on the eve of tough negotiations. For my group, the priority list is to guarantee permanent rights for people in the UK who come from other countries and vice versa. These are people who already live in the United Kingdom and those who settle between now and the moment of actual retirement. They should not have to worry about their pension, care, work, study or residence status. Can the Prime Minister assure the Chamber that no concessions will be made on this point? Does the same apply to the condition that there is a positive development in the negotiations only if the United Kingdom is prepared to fulfil its financial obligations? That may not be exit punishment, but because of the principle agreement is a deal. Back to the unit: the litmus test comes in the autumn. Then the Dutch Prime Minister and his colleagues will check whether sufficient progress is being made in the first stage of the negotiations to be able to look carefully at the second stage. It is clear that our current outgoing Prime Minister is in a hurry to do so. He would like the interests of the Netherlands, Ireland and Denmark to be properly heard and taken into account in the negotiations with the United Kingdom, as he calls them. Following on from previous questions from colleagues, I ask him how this form will be shaped and what has actually been agreed. You do not need a glass ball to predict that the discussions between the 27 Member States will be intense at that time. For when is there sufficient progress in the negotiations? 27 governments and parliaments, and the European Parliament is all going to implement this. We know the Prime Minister as an imperturbable optimist, but he sees these thunder clouds coming at him, doesn't he? Mrs May said last week that there are people in Brussels who do not want the negotiations to succeed and that the press is wrong about the British position. The failure of the negotiations will not benefit anyone, especially the Netherlands. We want to avoid the British whistling out of the European Union and then playing the remaining Member States against each other. However, the negotiations could simply fail. Our group still has a number of questions about this scenario. What are the consequences for each other if there is no result after two years? What about important issues such as the rights of EU citizens in the UK and financial obligations? Can we just get rid of it? Is there no prospect of a trade agreement, or do they still want to? Does the Prime Minister see the deliberate failure of the negotiations as a possible strategy for Mrs May? Finally, a comment on the role of the Netherlands in the European Union without the United Kingdom. It is a public secret that the Netherlands had a political interest in an EU with the British involved. The Netherlands will have to close new coalitions if we do not get into a corner behind the axis of Germany-France. In the letter to the Chamber of 10 March, Minister Koenders made a comment on this. My group would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he looks at the formation of these new coalitions and in what direction he thinks. Why, for example, does the Netherlands not seek much more cooperation in the Benelux context? Those are three countries that can make a strong fist together, aren't they? Is the Prime Minister prepared to commit to a substantial increase in cooperation with Belgium and Luxembourg, especially since this concerns three of the six founders? Perhaps we can add Denmark and Ireland to that. Then, as a number of small countries, we can be numerically but also qualitatively and in terms of the strength of the economy our man in the discussions in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u50	I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u51	Mr. Chairman. "I have a communication of the utmost importance." For example, the French minister Robert Schuman started a press conference in which he proposed the creation of an organization that would place the French and German production of coal and steel under joint management. That was exactly 67 years ago, on 9 May 1950, the day now known as the Day of Europe. More than 66 years later, on 23 June 2016, the British also had a communication of the utmost importance. They decided in a referendum to say goodbye to the European Union. The report received from the European Council sets out the main lines of action and the procedure for the separation of property before a new treaty can be discussed. It is also clear what the negotiating strategy is. In a few minutes, have there been two, three or four? The EU Member States agreed with each other. I have the next question to the Prime Minister. What are the chances that no agreement will be reached with the United Kingdom within two years, and what is the strategy if that agreement is not reached? Does that mean a majority extension or are we going to do something else? Colleagues have already considered the risks and threats in previous contributions. I'd like to dwell on the odds. After all, when the wind of change blows, some people build walls and others windmills. We can build windmills, especially in financial and business services. I ask the government how it looks at this view. I would like to return to the essence of the UK's departure from the EU. The United Kingdom is the first stone to fall from the European stronghold. Why did the British people vote against Europe? As far as DENK is concerned, this has to do with the fact that, in the eyes of many citizens, the European Union has become more and more an impersonal, opaque and undemocratic hobby project of a number of politicians who put each other through their network of jobs. An international cartel of bureaucrats and technocrats. The EU is wasting and wasting. How can we explain to Europeans that the EU bobos travel every time for hundreds of millions between Brussels and Strasbourg? Citizens don't understand that. That'll piss them off. How can we explain to Europeans that their hard-earned contribution to the EU is consistently mis-spent, because the European Court of Auditors has never considered all expenditure to be lawful throughout the EU's history? Seriously. You've asked a group of smart financial experts to check that the money is spent properly and year in, year out you can't get approval. Then what do you do as sensible European politicians? Then you just move on, you don't care so much. Citizens don't understand that. It pisses citizens off. We have a two-fold crisis: both the legitimacy and effectiveness of the European Union are under considerable pressure. It seems as if politicians have been hiding in a ballroom and anxiously spying on the angry citizens gathering in the square. Without adjustments, the European Union will no longer have a long life. More and more people distrust politicians and fewer and fewer citizens feel involved. More and more citizens are looking for real participation and credible representation. Are we going to open doors, or are we waiting for the citizens to smash the walls of democracy? Perhaps you think these are just fantasies of a new Member of Parliament. However, this is not fiction. In the annual report of Transparency International, entitled Global Corruption Barometer, the findings are shocking. In almost all Western democracies, political parties are number one as the most corrupt institutions, according to the citizens questioned. As a passionate democrat, I am deeply concerned about this. It is time to democratize democracy. The EU must return to its essence: to serve the interests of all Europeans and not just those of the elite in Strasbourg and Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u52	Mr. Chairman. The word 'thinking' is not known in Brussels. Not a pass after the so disastrous Brexit referendum for the EU. It's business as usual. The President of the European Commission, Juncker, seems visibly drunk again at a UN summit. Commissioner Timmermans accuses Hungary of anti-Semitism. Turkey remains a candidate country. And a new EU propaganda museum opens in Brussels; costs: 56 million euros. No wonder the British have chosen to leave the EU. The Netherlands should follow the British example as far as PVV is concerned, but no. In fact, Prime Minister Rutte renewed the vows to the European Union during the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome on behalf of the Netherlands. Because the EU is only looking ahead and the future of the EU must be one of progress, says the European Commission. And the Netherlands buys it. Such naivety. The five possible scenarios presented by the Commission to stimulate a debate on the future are therefore, with this starting point in mind, five tastes more European Union. In the meantime, what this cabinet wants is completely unclear to me. I quote from the letter: in some areas more Europe is needed and in some less; we want a deeper internal market, but also attention to the negative aspects; a European pillar of social rights can contribute to strong labour market systems, but social policy and labour market policy is primarily the competence of the Member States; the cabinet does not want an EU à la carte, but flexibility. If you go to Brussels without a vision, you will know that you are coming home with more European Union, because there are no middle roads. Brussels has only one direction. That is why I am asking the following specific question: what does the cabinet really want, more or less European Union? Practically all participants in the Brexit Summit welcomed the unity of the EU-27, including the Prime Minister. For the PVV, the fact that you say you are on the same page with europhiles like Juncker is not exactly a recommendation and certainly not something to cheer on. I am more concerned about it, because gentlemen like Juncker and Tusk serve the EU interest and therefore their own interest. The Dutch interests in a future good relationship with the British are great. The more unsellable it is that not the Netherlands is about to sit at the table, but the European Commission, that the Netherlands agrees with guidelines requiring that there should be no bilateral negotiations between the Netherlands and the United Kingdom and that we should wait until the Council unanimously agrees on the progress of the withdrawal before discussing the future. It underlines once again that the Netherlands has been made dependent on the Eurocrats in Brussels. While Erdogan can go his dictatorial course and continue to fill his pockets with our taxpayers' money, the bill for British friends is running all over Brussels. Is it true that the Brexit bill has risen from 60 to 100 billion euros? What is the legal basis for this? Finally. If we are not careful, the Netherlands will have a high bill as well. Less countries, fewer members, a lower budget: it is not self-evident in Brussels. Some already see the mood and claim part of our tax money on the budget after the Brexit. The Prime Minister supports Ms Mogherini's statement directly on Twitter following the European Council that the Brexit will have no effect on the EU's position in the world, and specifically not on the EU's position as No. 1 donor of development aid worldwide? Did the Prime Minister state at the European Council that it is unacceptable for the Netherlands to have the financial consequences passed on to our country in any way? How will the Prime Minister ensure that Brexit will also result in a lower EU budget? Finally, has the Prime Minister Brussels already indicated that, in line with the adopted PVV motion, 73 EP seats should disappear after the Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u53	Mr. Chairman. The United Kingdom is leaving the European Union. Many Dutch think this is undesirable and unfortunate. They want another EU and not a European Union falling apart, because they know that we depend on international cooperation and trade for our prosperity and security. That is why they want the UK's departure to cause as little damage as possible. The aim of the Netherlands should therefore be to achieve, given the red lines of the United Kingdom and the European Union, the maximum possible free trade agreement without interruptions, i.e. with a transitional regime. Brexit is a lose-lose situation and the art is to keep the damage as limited as possible. A number of people may stand in the way of this. In the British Parliament there are a number of British Conservatives who think they can get out quickly, one afternoon, and then become more economically prosperous. A reconstruction of Prime Minister May's dinner with Mr Juncker shows that the Prime Minister still seems to have unrealistic expectations. That's gonna stand in the way of a good deal. But also the committee chairman, Mr Juncker himself, and his head of the cabinet stand in the way of a good deal. If they start leaking out the conversations and tweeting provocatively, it ruins the atmosphere. On the one hand, it is good that the United Kingdom is getting signals that it is unrealistic, but this kind of openly leaking out of conversation damages confidence, and that is not in the interests of all those people who depend on a good relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom. Does the Prime Minister share this view and will he address Mr Juncker the next time he has the opportunity to do so? As the cabinet has also said, the motto must be: remain calm, be realistic and negotiate. It has already been mentioned: after Ireland, we are the country most affected by the Brexit. That is why it is good that the Prime Minister has reached out to his counterparts from Ireland and Denmark to see how we can work together. In the media we hear that the Prime Minister intends to do the same with the Benelux countries, the Baltic states, Scandinavia and the Visegrád countries. Is that right? In its opinion on the Brexit, the International Affairs Advisory Council also stated that the Netherlands, now losing a good ally, must seek new allies. European power relations are being redefined and the question is what that means for the Dutch interest. Who are our new allies? For blocking minorities in the European Union, other countries are now needed. I'd like to hear a response from the Prime Minister. The VVD is also considering asking the International Affairs Advisory Council for an additional opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u54	It only lasted for four or three minutes? The Council then announced that they were going to say goodbye to the United Kingdom. It will be a very hard Brexit, not a soft Brexit as the Netherlands suggests. Don't negotiate in parallel. And now Mr Mulder is calling for a kind of cooperation between countries with a common interest. Does the VVD actually feel uncomfortable about this unity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u55	No, that consensus is important. It's been created, too. But you need to take a good look at the different countries in it. A number of countries have the same interests. A number of countries have much less interests, have much less trade with the United Kingdom. So you have to look closely at who your allies are in such a European Council and then get to work. You'll come out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u56	I think it's been a bit like this. Merkel said: no, I do not want to talk about the new budget; first divorce and then a new trade relationship. Juncker got free to leak about what happened on Downing Street and May got free to tell her people that her election is being influenced by the European Union. This doesn't look so good. The commitment of the Netherlands, with or without the mini-top and so-called equal interests, has been stranded on the wall of unwillingness within the Commission and the Council to achieve a soft Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u57	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u58	What exactly is the VVD proposing here? Does the VVD, for example, think that the Netherlands should not express its support if it becomes a hard Brexit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u59	The VVD thinks the SP is a bit defeatist. The SP throws the towel in the ring. The art is here to negotiate very well and to seek allies. It remains to be seen whether the EU is indeed acting harder. I agree with Mrs Leijten's question. She said, "Is it 60 billion or 100 billion?" Is it raised now? But I wouldn't say the cabinet isn't doing well. There are simply conflicting interests and you have to operate in them as conveniently as possible. For a prime minister, that's the art of doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u60	Finally, Mrs Leijten, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u61	I am concerned that these words have been spoken by the largest party in Parliament, the party that currently supplies the Prime Minister who defends our interests in the European Council. The Chamber was quite in line with the previous debate. We then adopted a few motions as a push in the back. And nothing, naks, nada came back from that course. Now I hear a plea in which the VVD says "Find your allies"; ergo, no consensus. The VVD says "stand up for your own interests"; ergo, go against consensus when it concerns a hard Brexit. My question is: what is the VVD heading for? Nice talk in this parliament and jabbering in Europe? Is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u62	It has yet to be seen how the negotiations are going. We are talking today about Europe Day and the Schuman Declaration. If you go back in history and look at the first reaction of the Netherlands to the High Authority of Coal and Steel and what the Liberal Minister Stikker achieved, you can see that you can start off with disagreement and still come out united. That's what this business is about. You're not gonna get what you want on your own. You have to work for that. Come up with good arguments, find allies, work and pull, that's the art.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u63	They came out unanimously, but not with the message that this Prime Minister would have liked to hear, namely that there would be parallel negotiations and that there would be a soft Brexit. How does Mr Mulder assess the outcome of that consensus, namely a hard Brexit, whereby we settle first and then look further?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u64	That's what we're gonna hear. That was also Mr Van Rooijen's question. The question is, of course, whether the separation should first be adequately regulated. If you don't, then the bill stays above the market and at the end it might become some kind of cattle market or hand-kick. But then you have to see when exactly enough progress has been made. Then you can start the follow-up negotiations. That's the art. So that's what you need those allies for. So you shouldn't just stand by the microphone and say, "It's not gonna work." No, you have to get to work in Europe. You need to find allies, bring in good arguments and get to work. That's the art here. And that's hard enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u65	We are too late, because the procedure has now been agreed. It has been stipulated that there will be no parallel negotiations and that the British will first be taken into account. Mr Mulder can say to the Prime Minister: go find alliances again. But then he's too late, because the procedure has already been agreed. Then we have to look at how the relationship with the British can become after the reckoning. Is Mr Mulder satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u66	We said here last time: we start the divorce and if there is enough progress, we continue with the sequel. In my view, Minister Koenders mentioned the month of December. I think this is still on the table. We're gonna do that, I think, from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u67	Mr Mulder makes it sound like he is sitting at the negotiating table himself, but he is not sitting there. Prime Minister Rutte isn't sitting there either. There is no one on behalf of the Netherlands, because the VVD has given away that competence for the Netherlands. How exactly is the VVD going to ensure that the Dutch interest is defended?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u68	Mrs. Maeijer hasn't been paying attention. Mr Barnier's negotiating mandate is agreed by the 27 countries. They indicate exactly what Mr Barnier can go on and when he has to come back to renew or amend his mandate. That's where the Dutch influence is. That power has not been given away at all, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u69	Mr Mulder believes a europhile like Mr Barnier on his blue eyes is doing exactly what the Prime Minister tells him?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u70	What are you supposed to say about this? The mandate is settled. We've talked about it a few times. Every milestone goes back to the parliaments. They will also be informed as much as possible. I'll get to that in a minute. So it is not true that Mr Barnier is doing his own thing. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has spoken to him twice, and I did not have the impression at that time that he was doing his own thing. I had the impression he was listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u71	In the debate I hear a little bit that there might be a contradiction: one-sided negotiations would not relate well to what a number of smaller countries, in other words 'the most affected countries', want. In this whole process of acting together, they also want to see which new combinations, in the words of Schumpeter "neue Kombinationen," are possible, in particular, to continue to operate as small countries within that consensus. I would point out that I do not see any contradiction between the latter and the latter. Others, large countries, think of Germany and France, do no different on a daily basis. Should we then say, as smaller countries, that we should not do so, because it affects consensus? It's en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u72	Exactly. I think Mr Van Rooijen and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u73	Please continue, Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u74	What does the Cabinet think of the guidelines adopted on 3 May? We haven't heard that from the cabinet. The directives will be adopted by the General Affairs Council on 22 May. I have the same question as Mrs Leijten about the 100 billion. What's the deal with that, exactly? How does the cabinet feel about that? We have already said that there must be sufficient progress and then the negotiations will continue. When will there be sufficient progress? Who decides on the basis of what criteria? A number of colleagues have already said that the budget can now be cut by 16%. The Minister made a point about this at the summit. What was the reaction to that? The Netherlands has applied for the European Medicines Agency. A number of other countries have done the same. The criteria for the new site are currently being established. How does the Prime Minister see the opportunities for the Netherlands to bring this agency in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u75	There's a question for you. Were you done with your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u76	I have one short sentence left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u77	Then, as far as I'm concerned, you can finish that sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u78	Finally, I would like to comment on the controlling task of the House of Representatives. The Brexit is a dilemma for us: on the one hand, we want to meet openly, on the other hand, you cannot talk openly about negotiating positions. At the same time, there are many confidential pieces on the street. You don't have to look them in here at the CIP, but you can just download them if you keep an eye on the European websites. What are we going to do as a Chamber and what are we going to do with the Cabinet to have an orderly debate on the Brexit over the coming months and perhaps years? I'd like a response from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u79	I have a brief question for Mr Mulder on the budget to get it concretely. So the VVD is in favour of a reduction in the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u80	Yes. At least 16%, but if you can do it any further, it's even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u81	Could you perhaps explain to me why your colleagues in the European Parliament have recently voted against a Council call for a reduction in the budget for 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u82	Pooh! I do not keep an eye on them every day, but if you read all the views and motions of the VVD, you will see that we are all in favour of a reduction in the European budget. First of all, we want a reduction of the 16% for which Britain is in it, and even more so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u83	It might be useful if you told your colleagues in the EP that, because the European Parliament also has something to say about the annual budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u84	Thanks for the tip! When I see Mr Van Baalen, I'm going to share this with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u85	Mr. Chairman. Today exactly 67 years ago, Robert Schuman said: world peace can only be preserved by the effort of all the positive forces that can protect him from the dangers. That was the start of the European Union. When the same European Union received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2012, then President of the Van Rompuy European Council said: the European Union must keep its promise and continue to lay a foundation for people's future. When the same Van Rompuy said goodbye a year later, our own Prime Minister also said that cooperation in Europe will take us beyond an all-input of individual countries. I quote: "No wise man can be for that." Those wise words today, on this Day of Europe, are perhaps more topical than ever. While a pro-European movement has won in France, we are here today, among other things, because the British want to leave the EU. Of course, we would like to remain well informed about these important negotiations on land separation and visitation arrangements. But as I indicated in the previous debate on Europe, the European Union is about more than just the market and the currency. The European Union is primarily about people. That is what Schuman and his contemporaries were all about. That is why I continue to stress that this is an excellent opportunity to make Europe better, more social and fairer. It is precisely now time for Europe 3.0, with regulations in the Netherlands where this can be done and in Europe where this should be done. I would therefore like to hear how the cabinet intends to take up the recently presented future scenarios on the future of Europe in the Netherlands as well. I come to Turkey, on which, unfortunately, we have nothing in the report of the European Council and the General Affairs Council of 3 May. Moreover, as my colleague in the European Parliament, Kati Piri, who is also the rapporteur for Turkey, was right to point out recently, democracy is in danger once a government finds a pen more dangerous than a gun. At the same time, she rightly warns that criticism of Erdogan's policy should not turn into anti-Turkish sentiments where an entire population is served. Let us not forget that almost half of all voters voted against Erdogan's plans, despite a campaign that was not fair at all with unequal access to media, resources and human resources. Unfortunately, we still have the concerns we had at the time about democracy, human rights and free press: over 100 journalists in prison, thousands of dismissed officials, scientists and soldiers; even elected representatives of the people have not been spared. In doing so, the Turkish Government is increasingly moving away from the European Union. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the freezing of the accession negotiations is only logical. However, Turkey is an important neighbour, with which Europe will have to continue to cooperate in certain areas. I would therefore like to hear from the Prime Minister how his colleagues in the European Council see this, whether the European Union is prepared to use the economic weight to promote reforms in the field of human rights and democracy, and how that part of the Turkish population that is committed to democracy, human rights and a free press can be supported by the European Union and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u86	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u87	Mr. Chairman. How am I gonna start now? That is fate if you are the last speaker and you did not register in good time, because I had the same quote as Mrs Van den Hul that world peace can only be preserved by the effort of all positive forces. This is in the Schuman Declaration, the birth certificate of European cooperation 67 years ago. For the first time since then, we are not talking about bringing European countries closer together, but about removing countries from that community. That effort must lead to a friendly divorce, not a divorce. I would like to stress that it is important for the CDA that in the final Brexit-deal the Dutch interest that is a friendly divorce must be clearly recognizable. During the debate on the summit, the Chamber, in addition to the EU negotiating mandate, expressed its concern about security issues: questions about cooperation against terrorists, questions about detection. Can the Prime Minister indicate to what extent this was discussed at the summit and how it was designed? I would also like to add my voice to Mr Mulder's questions on information to the parliaments. Is the portal ready yet? We've been working on the Brexit for about three months now. There was supposed to be a portal for parliamentarians, but I haven't seen it yet. I hope that it will be here in two years' time and that we will not have to read it in the paper. As a major trading partner for the Netherlands, the UK must remain accessible and open. Of course, European freedoms must be respected and a new relationship consists of rights and obligations, but destroying trade relations between the UK and the continent is not good for Europe and not good for the Netherlands. Take the fisheries sector, a sector in the Netherlands that is probably the hardest hit by the Brexit. The Prime Minister doesn't want to go into the sectors yet, but does he discuss these things at the summit? As far as the right of transition is concerned, I agree with Mr Van Rooijen, but it is not just about the people who live there now. It is also about the people who have lived there in the past and have built up pension rights, for example. Will the government pay attention to that? I am also pleased that the mandate states that this is to be settled first in the process. Unlike others, I have also read in the new mandate that there is now a transition to the discussion of phase 2, namely the new relationship, and that it is not necessary to complete stage 1 first, as Mr Verhofstadt, for example, wanted. That's an opportunity. We must seize this opportunity to change Europe. The abolition of Strasbourg is such an opportunity. The whole room wishes that. Macron, elected this weekend, has indicated that Europe needs to change in order to survive. Has the Prime Minister accompanied his congratulations to Mr Macron by the question of whether he saw an opportunity for the EP to leave Strasbourg? Last time, the Prime Minister noted that there was a need for a treaty change. In the Ukraine Treaty, of course, he also went with a great twist around a treaty change, so get that creativity out of the box. We did not support that at the time, but we did support creativity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u88	You do not have to respond to what the Prime Minister says outside the microphone, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u89	The MP Mark Rutte seems to have a comment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u90	He's in the debate, but we didn't hear what he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u91	If he sits in the Chamber for a moment, I can mention a remark that he would see differently as Prime Minister Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u92	It is indeed a small protocol. It must therefore be possible, including for this Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u93	You mean, like, an inlay sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u94	That's okay, too. In this a little protocol. I have a question about these moves to Strasbourg. Esther de Lange, a colleague of Mr Omtzigt, has made a commitment to this in the European Parliament. On behalf of the CDA, the Christian Democrats, she tabled a motion similar to that I tabled here last time. What does Mr Omtzigt think of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u95	As discussed earlier in the course of interruptions, there have been ten motions for resolutions on the abolition of Strasbourg. It seems that if you do not raise your hand for once because it does not contain the correct text, you are suddenly in favour of continuing to meet in Strasbourg. I was in Strasbourg last week before the Council of Europe, so I am interested in that. I am therefore in favour of abolishing Strasbourg. I just outlined a route here, too. In the manner in which the Prime Minister indicated that motion, which was not denied by the petitioner, we would at that time be opening a round of treaty changes on precisely that point. That's why I'm now suggesting that we think creatively. When you start an interparliamentary conference for a treaty change, I think that the damage caused by the wishes of a number of countries, look at the Visegrád countries or the southern European countries, who simply have different wishes and then think: oh, we're going to change the treaty, then I might even have a list here that is bigger than all the CO-tons saved from not travelling between Strasbourg and Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u96	That's why Esther de Lange came up with a very creative solution. She thought along with the French and came up with the exchange with the EEA, the Agency for Medicine. That would be a real possibility and could open up to the French. We've been over this for a while. Does the House of Representatives support Mr Omtzigt's MEP Esther de Lange?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u97	Of course. I'm indicating a mode where that could be done. One of those modes could be by making an appointment with all of them. Moreover, the European Parliament has tried this informally once, trying to abolish a session in Strasbourg. Well, the French got angry. It couldn't be done, because the treaty says they always have to vote there. So it can be done by making an informal appointment with the French with all EU countries, whether it is EU-27 or -28, I would like to get rid of it for a moment. If the change from that is the agencies, that change is agencies. That change could be somewhere else. I would like to draw your attention to the old proposal of my former colleague Henk-Jan Ormel, who proposed the same thing in the new construction of NATO. He said at that time that this was a moment that could be seized to move NATO to Strasbourg. That can be fine, and Parliament to Brussels. If it requires any creativity, that's fine. Totally fine. I also have a lot of ambitions in the discussion with Mr Draghi tomorrow to think that he will change his monetary policy within two hours. Still, I don't think he's gonna do that. If we are here in the House of Representatives to indicate exactly the direction in which the Treaty needs to be amended, there are some 40 other parliaments in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u98	Would you like to interrupt, Mr Van Rooijen? No? You're just walking tonight? Good. Okay. Please continue, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u99	I come to Mrs Van Hul's point. Where we are tough in the negotiations with our own family member and our own neighbour, the United Kingdom, we act differently in Turkey. About 150,000 people have been fired. Tens of thousands of people have been arrested. Hundreds of journalists, opposition members of parliament and judges, up to the high court, are in prison. A democracy is being overturned. The Council of Europe has taken out the toughest instrument, namely monitoring, but the EU continues to cover it with the cloak of love. It just keeps saying shit at once. The EU is undermining its entire human rights policy, as it continues to formally negotiate accession. The CDA wants a different partnership with Turkey than membership. That is what the PPE-DE has said. The Turkey rapporteur is still talking about suspension. This Chamber also wishes to end negotiations and accession aid, but the Heads of State or Government and Foreign Ministers continue to be concerned. How is that even possible? Where's the red line? How will other countries react if Turkey is allowed to continue doing so? And another question: has the government been allowed to see the reports on the prisons that are still being paid with EU money, or will we continue to pay wind? Then there's my final point. During the previous debate, a motion was adopted to look for a common area for Turkey to engage in political activities. It's about limiting a little what they're allowed to do here. Think about what happened here at the referendum. The government wrote that it could not find a strategy, but all kinds of ministers, from Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, are suddenly saying exactly the same thing. Is it not time to re-examine whether we can agree what that country is allowed to do with its long arm in the Netherlands and what is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u100	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u101	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u102	Mr. Chairman. I'll handle the questions as much as I can in the order of entry. The first question, of course, was about the election of the new French President. We welcome them. I also look forward to working together. D66, the SP, the PVV, DENK and other parties have asked for this. Let us not think that the wrong type of populism is gone with that, as I say to those who say: nice that he has won. This is also something that I am very keen on in the Netherlands when it comes to forming a coalition. I am sure that will also apply to Emmanuel Macron. It is important to realize that there is also that movement. That discontent is there. We shouldn't ignore them. That's what we need to be careful about. In fact, there must be an answer to this. There are people who feel that they have paid more than average the price of the crisis and wonder if politics is there for them. I see it as my task in the formation of a new cabinet in the Netherlands to promote, with other parties joining a coalition, that we also formulate an answer to that question and respond to that thought. I agree with everyone who says that the wrong type of populism will rise again at another time if we do not. I understand that, too. Questions have also been asked about the new Europe policy of the new French Government. We'll have to wait and see. We know some of the views of the new French President. What I like very much is that he says: the most important thing I have to do now is to make sure that France itself is put in order. Two very important things have been going on for me for a long time. If Europe is to succeed, we must first of all complete the internal market. Think of the Services Directive and the single digital market, but also of the further completion of everything in the area of capital and energy union. The second is that Southern Europe is implementing the necessary reforms. This applies in particular to Italy and France. In this respect, the noises from the new French Government are positive: that is absolutely the priority at the moment. Various questions have been asked about the Brexit, among others by Mrs Van Veldhoven, but I see that she wants to ask another question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u103	The Prime Minister seems to distinguish between the national policies which the new French President would like to pursue and his European policy. I think that the Prime Minister is right to point out that the questions that are being raised in France are those that relate to groups of people who do not recognize themselves or who have not recognized themselves in France today, playing across Europe in all kinds of places and in all kinds of countries. He is also right to point out that the future of Europe should be part of the answer to those questions. What are we going to do about Europe? Is this new Europe going to respond to the legitimate concerns of those people about terrorism, security and so on? With regard to what questions is the Prime Minister prepared to take an active approach to the new French President in order to see whether a joint response to the legitimate concerns of those people can be found through the European agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u104	We are already doing that, even with the current French President and throughout Europe. The Dutch Government is committed to the completion of the internal market, that Southern Europe adheres to the Stability and Growth Pact and that Europe has a response to the issues of terrorism and migration. Think of the agreement with Turkey. You cannot make such an agreement without a European context, but also with the African countries that are beginning to take shape. We are working very intensively in all these areas. Speakers also asked questions this evening about the way in which the Netherlands builds new coalitions when the Brexit takes place. Those are very relevant questions. I can assure Mr Van Rooijen that I too have noticed the existence of the Benelux. In fact, we work very intensively together in the Benelux context. We have a summit on 19 June with the Visigrád countries, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, and on 21 June with the three Baltic and the three Scandinavian Member States. So it's a three-plus-three-plus-three-top. These moments are indeed all meant to talk about the Brexit and the future of the European Union, but also to ensure that we build new coalitions from the Dutch interest. I very much agree with everyone who says that this is necessary. The substantive agenda is thus along the lines of the internal market, the Stability and Growth Pact, migration and the fight against terrorism. If Europe is relevant in these areas and provides jobs, economic and monetary stability and a common approach to combating terrorism and migration, then I am convinced that we can show people the added value of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u105	I agree, of course, with the Prime Minister in general, but the use of the resources of the European budget will, of course, determine the weight that can be placed on the priorities outlined by the Prime Minister. In particular, let us not forget the whole climate and energy policy; I am sure the Prime Minister would have liked to mention this in his list. This means that a reform of the European budget must be negotiable. The common agricultural policy is, of course, an element which cannot be missed. Can the Prime Minister elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u106	Well, we could, but let's do the things we had planned for them. With regard to the budget, it is foreseen that a letter will be sent within two weeks in preparation for the general consultation organised by the Chamber on 6 June with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Finance. That is actually all about the issue of the Multiannual Financial Framework. Maybe I can refer to that. I recognize, of course, the elements mentioned by Mrs Van Veldhoven, but we also have three gentlemen, three interests to serve. Firstly, we want to modernise the budget. Secondly, with the Brexit there will also be a smaller EU. Then, of course, we also want a smaller budget, as I said on behalf of the government last time. Thirdly, I would like to mention the whole question of modernisation in relation to the level of the budget, the ceilings and the Dutch rebate. Somewhere within that triangle we will have to look for a balance, where it is certainly important that we continue along the path of modernising the CAP and cohesion funds in favour of innovation and things such as the Connecting Europe Facility and everything related to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u107	We're both familiar with the Benelux. Is the Prime Minister also aware that this is the case, of course; this is a rhetorical question that the elected President, Macron, still has a match to play back, namely in the parliamentary elections in two rounds in June? This means that there is a great risk of cohabitation, while the intention of the new constitutional system was to avoid cohabitation by holding the parliamentary elections one month after the presidential elections, hoping that they would give the same result. Does the Prime Minister want to say anything about that before he closes the book on France?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u108	That is not entirely true, because the idea of the 1958 Gaullist Fifth Republican Constitution was that there would be a Septenate for the President after five years of parliamentary elections, with the chance of a different parliamentary majority. So Charles de Gaulle had just provided a certain tension between the President and the ruling coalition. We have seen this between 1986 and 1988, under Mitterrand. We also saw it between 1993 and 1995, also under Mitterrand. Later on we saw this under Chirac, who took a big gamble with the parliamentary elections, which turned out wrong. In the Netherlands, of course, we have extensive experience with coalition governments. France may also gain more experience with this. I already find it difficult to predict the Dutch elections, let alone the French ones, but the scenario is, of course, conceivable that there is a situation in which there is a need to coordinate between the Élysée and the Matignon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u109	I asked that question because it is very important to know what the President is going to want, but next month's election results will have an extra meaning for that, because it can greatly reduce Macron's impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u110	Yes, or amplify, looking at the agenda of the Republican party, so of the former Gaullist party actually still the Gaullist party and to the agenda of En Marche!, Macron himself, whose name he changed to La République and Marche. We do not know for sure; of course, it all keeps speculating, but at least he has the ambition to participate in all 577 constituencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u111	No, no, no, Mr. Van Rooijen. You've had the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u112	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u113	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u114	The Republicans actually want to bring their own agenda into the elections, apart from Macron.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u115	Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u116	We have to wait and see how that works out in a coalition after that. Fillon, the last candidate of that party for the presidency, was also, of course, prepared in his programme to pursue further reforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u117	The Prime Minister pointed out that the new French President also indicated that he was fully prepared to put his own house in order. I noticed that there was actually very soon the sound coming from Berlin, from Germany, 'we might have to help France a little bit and perhaps give more time for that'. I wonder if the Prime Minister has noticed that as well. Could that indicate a cautious change of course for a new axis of Berlin-Paris? If so, what does the Netherlands say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u118	I do not have the impression that there will be a change of course, given the signals I heard from the Bundeskanzleramt about the possible relaxation of the Stability and Growth Pact. I liked those signals. I was also enthusiastic about the German position because of the German Government's comments on Eurobonds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u119	Finally, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u120	As I recall, there were other signals from Berlin, which might be a little more in the direction...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u121	Slightly less high signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u122	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u123	Signals from slightly less senior officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u124	Oh, of less senior officials. But not unimportant officials, I thought, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u125	No, you don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u126	... certainly not when it comes to budgetary discipline and that sort of thing. However, I understand from the Prime Minister's reply that he does not expect a different wind to blow at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u127	I think we are looking, and I hope that a possibly further reinforced Franco-German axis will do the same, for an answer to the two major problems I mentioned, or actually three. The first is to strengthen the internal market. In the Netherlands 1.5 million jobs depend directly on the European single market. I have said it many times when I was asked what I think of the European internal market: that would be a good idea, because it is now very limited, namely only for physical goods, goods that you can grab, hardly for services and not for digital, not for capital and not for energy. So there are huge opportunities. We know that this would add twice a year the size of the Dutch economy to the total combined income of the whole of Europe, i.e. to the annual gross product. The second thing that needs to be done is to reform southern Europe. Then the question is how such a Franco-German axis can ensure that countries such as Italy and France actually shape these reforms. The third is, of course, the whole issue of migration, with Burden Sharing and compliance with agreements. Mrs Leijten and others pointed out that this is not going well. I hope that any strengthening of the Franco-German axis on each of these issues will lead to initiatives that are not along the lines of sharing debt but along the lines of promoting debt reduction in banks and states.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u129	I come now to the questions about the Brexit. The spokesmen of D66, the SP, the VVD and other parties referred to the dinner, and especially to the publicity about it. I think I will be brief about that, also because it is not as appropriate when I say a lot about it in public. In general, it is wise to keep confidential conversations of this kind. I therefore agree with those who say: it is not helpful if all kinds of spider comes out of it. I come to the issue of the helpdesk. There is indeed a separate page on the site of the London Embassy. Shortly the information has not been fully accessible by converting it into a new system. It's recovered. The problem is that very little is known about the future position of people with passports from one of the European Member States in the UK after a Brexit. So in that respect, the information is limited, because it depends very much on the outcome of the negotiations. The documents relating to the ongoing inter-group procedure have been requested to be made public. The difficulty is that documents relating to ongoing intergroup procedures cannot be made public under European rules at both the administrative and the procedure before the European Court. We have to follow those rules. The question is also asked about the Dutch commitment. I believe that the outcome of the European Council fully reflects the Dutch commitment. What is this Dutch commitment? This is that in the first instance we negotiate closely on three important issues. The first concerns the level of the divorce account. I hear amounts of 100 billion. They come from the Commission or from leaks. I cannot comment on that further. It will be a considerable bill, but it is not up to me to determine the exact level of it. We have to agree on that. The second concerns the position of British nationals as Liberals, I do not like the word 'nationals', so rather: British citizens in the rest of the European Union and the position of European Union citizens in the United Kingdom. The third concerns border issues, particularly of course those of the border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. The agreement that we have made and which is entirely in line with the Dutch commitment is that we are initially working on as much progress as possible on the three topics mentioned, and then later this year, somewhere between October and December, to establish that there is sufficient progress to add the second track to it. It's about the future relationship. That has always been the Dutch commitment. Those who say that we should immediately start with the second track and that the first track is not interesting must ask themselves whether they are not interested in the position of citizens over and over again, in the level of the divorce account and in the sensitive issue of the Irish-Northern Irish border. I think these are very important issues, especially for a country like the Netherlands. In fact, we are one of the countries that has great interest both in progress on the first track and in progress on the second track. That is also one of the conclusions we have drawn with the Danes and the Irish. They're attached to that, too. They naturally also attach importance to the second track, because they are countries that are more than on average economically affected by the Brexit. This also applies to Belgium, to some extent to Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands themselves. These countries therefore have a great interest in the second track, but certainly also in the first track, and from that point of view also in unity of the 27. We have a very great interest in this. I even think that the Netherlands, also in the Benelux context, I say to Mr Van Rooijen, can and should also try to build bridges between the different countries and the different interests that play. In that respect, I am actually proud of the conclusions. As I see Mrs Leijten standing opposite me, I found her reflection of what remains of the Dutch commitment in the conclusions somewhat lean, if I may put it so carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u130	Perhaps this is due to the Prime Minister's report on the summit. We heard little about the common interests and the agreements between the Netherlands, Denmark and Ireland. I understand that the Prime Minister is also going to invest all kinds of mini-tops with other stakeholders. We should be kept better informed of what is happening there in the Dutch interest. We get these three subjects first and if there is sufficient speed, we decide either. The question was not whether we felt that everything should be closed first. The question was divorce first and then a new relationship? In the communication around the summit we have heard too much lately: first divorce and then a new relationship. What exactly is the deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u131	Mr Omtzigt says that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u132	Divorce first and then a new relationship? Or can we, and we will, also talk about this new relationship during the divorce?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u133	It is exactly as Mr Omtzigt summarized it. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u134	I ask the Prime Minister what has been decided. Are we not gonna talk about the new relationship until after the divorce or are we gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u135	During.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u136	Look, that's what I asked the Prime Minister. It's nice he's answering, too. But then I get to the whole process. We were here three weeks ago in a debate. Then we talked about 60 billion. That would be the divorce bill for the United Kingdom. I've seen a lot of accounts get bigger, but 40 billion in three weeks is a big step. Where exactly did that come from? And this is heading for: we're gonna figure it out? Or is this heading towards: we're not getting out; we're not even starting this new relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u137	I cannot comment on that 100 billion, as I have just said. There will undoubtedly be more amounts of money in the coming period. I think it would be wise to look at this with a cool head, as a number of speakers suggested in the first term. There is also no soft Brexit or hard Brexit. There's a Brexit. It must be designed in a way that is equitable and fair for all parties, as Mrs Van Veldhoven put it. So that can't be hard or soft, that's balanced. Equitable is, of course, perfectly balanced. As soon as there are more substantiated amounts for the divorce account, we'll share them. I'll be back to talk about how we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u138	But the Prime Minister is thus distancing himself from the 100 billion. That sounds like...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u139	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u140	No, I'm not gonna distance myself from it. I'm just saying I'm not gonna respond to any amount here. The Dutch cabinet is tight from there never leaks anything from it, but sometimes leaks from the European Commission. I cannot comment on this every time, unless they are more formal positions of the European Commission. Then, of course, we will respond to it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u141	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u142	Everything is leaking, but this was a statement calling the negotiator on behalf of the European Union and the European Commission. He said that the 100 billion bill will have to be paid at least. If these are the positions that are being taken, you can say that you have achieved a great result and that it is all true on paper, but you are still facing each other like hotheads. They're not gonna come up with any agreements about a good relationship, because they've already hit each other's heads before they get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u143	They're all sensible people. We're in a very developed part of the world. I don't think we're gonna fight each other with clubs and axes. We have to do this with a certain cool-headedness. Of course, there are factors that play a role. We have a great European apparatus and the Commission. There's a lot of leaks there. That's not entirely preventable. We also have the British elections on 8 June. So assume that, in the near future, there will also be some things from London that will have to be interpreted in the light of the elections. At least I'll take that into account. That shouldn't scare us so much. Furthermore, we simply need to keep up the pace and make sure that somewhere between October and December, I hope that we will succeed in finding that we are also taking the second track intensively. Of course, the European Parliament has also been asked for. Last time, I said that the Dutch Government would be affected by a reduction in the European budget, which also applies to the European Parliament. I answered those questions at the time. The European Parliament is the move. Italy is ahead of the troops in this respect. I personally do not like the idea of supranational seats. I think it would be much better if you narrowed down the parliament. However, it is primarily up to the Parliament itself. I have already spoken about the meeting with the Danes and the Irish. Then I'll get to the different room motions. Mrs Leijten asked about the Omtzigt motion. The Chamber was informed of this by letter. In the Brexit rapporteur's report, the Cabinet will address the issues surrounding the Multiannual Financial Framework and the consequences of the Brexit. That's what's coming. As I said, there is a general consultation scheduled for 6 June anyway. We expect to give birth in the coming weeks to a letter from the Finance and Foreign Ministers on the MFF. The motion on binding agreements between the UK and the EU on tax avoidance by Mrs Leijten and Mrs Van den Hul has our continued attention, but it hits the second track of the talks, not the first track. As soon as that second track is put in the scaffolding, we will involve that motion in our positioning. Questions have also been asked about the EEA, the European Medicines Agency. In the direction of Mr Van Ojik, who asked for this, I say that we naturally consider it important that good and affordable medicines are available to patients, where safety and reliability are essential. This has also been a priority for our Presidency in the first half of 2016. That is why the continuity of the EEA's work is so important. There's a lot of competition. Many other countries also want the Agency. We call for speedy decision-making. The procedure is now that the European Council will examine the criteria in June. We're trying to reach a decision in October, I think. Which brings me to Strasbourg. That's what we talked about last time. I repeat that I fully agree with those who say: stop it. I believe that we are all in agreement on this, apart from the PVV, because Mrs Le Pen was not allowed to find it. In my opinion, all the other parties felt that the moving circus should be abolished. But the point is that this requires a treaty change. I do not need to remind the Chamber of Protocol 6, which is also mentioned here. It's very complicated. That means that we cannot do this without a treaty change. I understand that Mr Omtzigt says: you've done so brilliantly with Ukraine, do it again. I do welcome the ex-post support that I now feel from the CDA's corner for the result on Ukraine. Of course, it motivates me very much to see if I can come up with something similar for that parliament, but I have not been able to do that so far. It's really complicated. You can't just bypass the European treaties. Since hardly anyone is waiting for a treaty change now, we have to be honest that this is not going to happen. But I very much agree with Voordewind and others who say we should get rid of that crazy situation. This brings us to the question of Turkey and a possible referendum here on the death penalty in Turkey. It is clear that I very much agree with Louis Asscher, the Deputy Prime Minister. We don't really feel anything about that. The German Government has also made firm statements about this. We'd better see what the Turks come up with first. There is no referendum yet, but this affects a very fundamental number of views and values, especially in view of the large number of arrests that have taken place in Turkey. We are very keen on that. There must be a proposal first. I have seen that Mrs Merkel, the German colleague, has said a few things about it today, which I think is very much in my direction, but it must all be legally possible to do so in terms of the restrictions that we would like to impose on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u144	That is the point, because if we wait until the referendum is actually knocking on our front door, just as we were a little bit mugged by the last referendum, then we may be too late again. So are the Prime Minister and the Cabinet actually going to investigate how we can not cooperate legally on this? I do not think we can prevent it at all because Turkey could still do it through the embassy, but 400,000 Turks at an embassy also seems impossible to me. So is the Prime Minister going to investigate how we can prevent that death penalty referendum, as far as we can actually do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u145	We can't stop that. There won't be or there won't be. That's what the Turks are about. In the previous referendum, I tried to see if you could achieve more consensus in Europe, but that really did not work. So I do not see any success in this either, in the sense that you fully agree on how to deal with Turkish voting rights in the EU Member States. That's really the "forget it" department, you'll never agree on that, but we'll, of course, try to look behind the scenes at what other countries are doing. Again, the German position is the most extreme at the moment. Mrs Merkel said today that she wants to ban it at Turkish consulates and the embassy in Germany. We are now checking how the Germans support that in law, because that is quite a position. It must therefore be possible to do so legally, but in terms of direction that is absolutely something the Dutch government also feels about. We just agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u146	Minister Asscher talked about not wanting to facilitate it. Does the Prime Minister tell him that and he says: we are going to see how the Germans are doing it and we are going to see if we can use the same line in the Netherlands, if that is legally possible, in order not to facilitate it? That's the Prime Minister's line?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u147	Yeah, I'm just not sure if it's gonna work. We agree with the German position and we also wonder what legal basis the Germans have for this. When it comes to legal arguments, Germans are always very sharp. However, it calls for a good understanding of whether it can also be done within Dutch legislation, because it is quite important to avoid this at consulates and an embassy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u148	Can the Prime Minister send a letter to the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u149	No, we're gonna figure it out first, and there's not gonna be any separate letters about it right now. Undoubtedly, everyone will be informed at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u150	I have three questions about Turkey. At the press conference after the summit in Malta, Mrs Mogherini said something along the lines of we are happy to have them, but we are waiting to see if the Turks are still interested. Does the Prime Minister support this view, or is he prepared to draw a red line towards Turkey at last? Then there's my second question. If I understand correctly, Minister Koenders supports the European Commission's idea of reporting on Turkey's compliance with the conditions. This report would only come in the spring of 2018. Do I understand why we're waiting for something to come out of that pipeline and we're gonna keep making money until then? My third question is: what is the state of play with regard to visa liberalisation for Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u151	There is no further news about the latter. There are no new reports from the Commission on this. Then there is the second question. We are in favour of the cessation, at least the suspension of the accession aid. That's what the Netherlands is for. That is also well known. I believe that Parliament is also very much in favour of this. There is even support for this from the PVV. The problem, however, is that it requires unanimity in Europe, which is simply not there at the moment. We'll try, but we can't do it unless there's unanimity. We continue to argue for it, but so far we have not succeeded. At present, the Council is not sufficiently supportive. The Dutch position on Turkey's accession process is well known. It's comatose right now. Everything's dead. We are, of course, also looking at the consequences of the last Turkish referendum and the extension of the Turkish President's power in the Turkish state system and what this means in matters such as the Copenhagen criteria for accession to the Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u152	There was another question that Mrs Maeijer had also asked in her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u153	Yes, about Mrs Mogherini. Mrs Maeijer had already asked two questions about Mrs Mogherini, but they were about something else, namely the Brexit; I will come to that in a moment. I always try to follow everything Federica Mogherini says, but I haven't gotten this yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u154	I shall come back to that motion on Turkey. There is an approved motion asking the government to discuss within the EU the area that Turkey, which is still a candidate country at the moment, has differing views on whether the country should be a candidate: what political activities can it carry out here? We were rather unpleasantly surprised at what has happened in Rotterdam, Cologne and other parts of Europe. That was not possible within one consultation, and I can imagine that if you have to consult with 27 or 28 Member States. However, does the government want to take a serious look at this and recalibrate it? As my colleague has just said, at the time of a new referendum or a new challenge, you are too late. You can ban political meetings. It is, I think, very difficult to say that we will see later to ban referendums by internet or letter. I don't see how you're gonna do that, but I'd say try. Are we going to do this in advance, or is the government going to be surprised by a new move from Ankara?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u155	That's a literal repetition of an earlier question. As I said, last time we in Europe looked for broader support for a common approach, but that did not work, so I really consider that to be the 'forget it' section. For example, we are now looking at what the Germans and others are doing to see whether we can justify this rather extreme position here. I have talked about the issue of pre-accession support. At the moment there is simply no support in the Council for a suspension. The Netherlands is for that. Mr Omtzigt knows our position on the accession negotiations: they are currently comatose. The Dutch Government promotes that in the light of the results of the last Turkish referendum, what those outcomes and their translation into the Turkish constitutional system, which I believe is foreseen in 2019, mean for Turkey to comply with the Copenhagen criteria and the other accession criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u156	I will come back to this point anyway. Turkey will try to organise other political meetings here. It will try to do so in different countries at the same time, at the next opportunity. If Ankara attacks Europe again, it is not prepared. Is the government prepared to talk to a number of Member States or all Member States about a common line and not to let what is happening there continue to play out against others, but simply to decide here that certain forms of meetings are possible, but that other forms are not facilitated? Does the government want to make a legal analysis of this in advance rather than afterwards, or is it waiting for the next incident?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u157	I find this a bit of a complicated question, because we do have the freedom of association, assembly and expression. Let's take it apart for a second. The Netherlands is not, at all, against political meetings organised in the Netherlands. We must be careful not to ban them in a general sense, because that does not seem to me to fit in with our democratic constitution. What we object to is the following. During the last referendum, Turkish ministers, direct representatives of what we would call the Crown, but then of the Turkish Republic, tried to exert far-reaching influence here on Dutch people who happen to have Turkish passports and can therefore vote in a Turkish referendum. We thought that was very undesirable. We said at the time: we are not going to facilitate this. Then that escalated on Saturday 10 March, because it turned out that we could not agree with Turkey on the logistics of such a meeting. This escalated twice in the evening unannounced and against our wishes, when we found out, a Turkish minister went to Rotterdam. That is our position, but I am not going to say in general terms to Turkey that it should not organise political meetings here. That really wouldn't be the Dutch position. I'm here to facilitate referenda. We do in general, because we do not make it impossible. That was also the case in the last referendum. There is, however, a special situation if a subsequent Turkish referendum were to be about the death penalty. That is really a step too far as we are concerned. We are in contact with other countries about this, to hear how they deal with it. I have already said here that we like the very far-reaching German position, but it has to be seen whether it is legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u158	Article 16 of the ECHR provides opportunities to ban meetings of foreign politicians here. That therefore provides for the right to freedom of assembly. That does not mean that you should ban it, but that you yourself have the opportunity to say when Eritrea is going to organise a political meeting here: we are banning it, not on the basis of public policy, but on the basis of a specific article. If we constantly pull out that public order that doesn't have to be at stake at all, we'll include a side argument. Does the government want to discuss how it intends to deal with this? How can the government say that we can never restrict the freedom of assembly, but that we are going to restrict the freedom of vote? That doesn't rhyme with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u159	What you can never do in such a case is create a kind of general policy framework and say: within it you can assess any conceivable situation. Mr Omtzigt also knows that. Every conceivable situation will always have to be weighed in the context of that moment and of that situation. An example is now a possible referendum on the death penalty in Turkey. I am concerned about Mr Omtzig's approach here in order to use with some enthusiasm all kinds of articles that prohibit political meetings. I really find that contrary to some of the values that we have in the Netherlands. As a Dutch government, we have said: for us you will cross the border if you come here in that last referendum as a ruler from Turkey to put improper pressure on Dutch people who happen to have a Turkish passport. So it is not a politician or a former executive, but a ruling member of the Turkish Government. That's where we drew a line. But we must be careful not to make firm statements here in a very general sense, because we still have a tradition of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u160	Several motions have been adopted in the Chamber calling for the suspension of pre-accession aid within the European Council. We have heard very little about what the Dutch Government has done about it. But when it comes to, for example, stopping Turkey's accession to the European Union, this government has always said that we do not want a single entry, because that may well come back to us. What exactly has been going on about this pre-accession aid or when in the coming month is the Minister planning to discuss it with his colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u161	The good news is that tomorrow you will have a general discussion on the Foreign Affairs Council with my esteemed colleague Bert Koenders. I think that's a good time. Then we also report on the informal Gymnich meeting. In any case, I can say that the suspension was on the agenda on 28 April and that there was indeed no support for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u162	That's what we've all been able to see. But we have also seen that Erdogan has now said that he wants to start some discussions again. Now this Prime Minister always says: the talks are comatose; there is no question of accession now, because the negotiations are comatose. Does he see the fact that negotiations are being restarted after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u163	That seems extremely complicated to me, because then you have to open chapters. There is no basis for that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u164	There is no support for opening chapters, but there is also no support for stopping the negotiations. What exactly is it? Is it just support for coma and is Erdogan asking for something for which he will get the lid on his nose? Or is the European Union going to move back to reopening chapters?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u165	Mrs Leijten must have the facts in a row. The Netherlands cannot stop negotiations on its own. That is a unanimous decision of the Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u166	I have another point. A referendum on the death penalty may be at some point in time. I would actually like to mention another election in Turkey. The last referendum concerned the future president who still has to be elected in Turkey. This means that elections must be held again. Can the Prime Minister indicate how likely it is that these elections will not take place on the normal date, which would be far away, but that they will be very close, so that we will soon have another heavy referendum with the same problem as on 10 March?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u167	No, I really don't know anything about that. Contacts with Turkey are less intensive than they were. Mr. Chairman. Because of this interruption, a lot of questions I would have liked to answer have already been answered. That's the good news. I'm just gonna walk through my pile a little bit. I come to transparency towards the Chamber on the negotiations. The Chamber will understand tomorrow with the Foreign Minister. I know that he finds it very annoying when I answer these kinds of questions, because he grants himself a certain power on this point, which I would like to leave him. I therefore think it would be a good idea to raise these questions in detail tomorrow in that discussion with the Foreign Minister. There, I'm done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u168	The Foreign Minister will be very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u169	I think so, too. No, we have to keep him in position. What happens to citizens' rights and financial settlement if there is no Article 50 agreement? That brings us back to tonight's topic, the Brexit. We assume, of course, that there will be. If it doesn't, you have the so-called "cliff edge" scenario. This means that the relationship between the EU-27 is governed by international law, such as WTO rules. In principle, therefore, the right of residence of EU citizens who live in the UK for less than five years will also lapse. It then depends on the UK whether they can continue to live and work there. That's what happens in case there's no agreement. Mr Azarkan has asked how likely it is that an agreement will be reached in two years' time. We're assuming it'll work. That's what it's all about. Of course, we must manage expectations, especially on the British side. The British's expectations are sometimes a bit unrealistic, but we are also working very hard on that. They have chosen to leave the European Union. Of course, they cannot expect the relationship to be better for them in the future than they were when they were members of the European Union. We're not a menu you can choose from. At the same time, of course, we are trying to break up in an acceptable way, keeping an eye on the great interests of all the Member States. I have already answered questions about the EU budget. There was another question from Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Omtzigt about the CPT report which was not made public. We have been constantly committed to making that report public, including in contacts with Turkey. The Council did so, at the request of the Netherlands, in the Presidency statement of 13 December. It hasn't worked so far. So we will continue to work on this with great energy. I'll go through my notes, Mr President, because I know you'd appreciate it if I didn't take more time than I needed. No, I seem to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u170	Did you leave any questions, Mr Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u171	Yeah, one. The Prime Minister has just spoken about the consequences for citizens if the negotiations fail. I had also asked him if he could comment on what would happen to the financial commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u172	Same thing, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u173	But does that mean that the United Kingdom is not going to pay the 60 billion or the X billion? Thatcher once walked away from the table during the negotiations and then got the rebate. What happens if the negotiations fail and England walks away from the negotiating table? Do we still have a right to the $60 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u174	Yes, of course. This will then have to be done through international legal procedures. Of course, England asked for that. That makes sense. But the UK, in our view, has all kinds of obligations. In that scenario the UK would say: bye-bye-dokie, we are not doing it. I do not expect that to happen, by the way. But if it does, then you have international gremia to settle it legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u175	But are we going to sue the United Kingdom for years over 60 billion or over 100 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u176	Then we're three "what ifs" ahead. Then it didn't work. Then it was also not possible to agree on the amount of the divorce account. Let's stop this speculation here, because I'm not assuming it's gonna come to this. Everyone has an interest in a proper conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u177	No, no, no, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u178	It has been said that it has been considered, but is the Prime Minister prepared to consider it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u179	Everything is being considered, but we should not talk about it in public for too long, because before you know it, you call for something you do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u180	I have a brief question on this subject. The report itself states: we're ready to handle if the negotiations fail. What exactly does the Prime Minister mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u181	We shall, of course, consider this in the light of the legal possibilities available. These are normal international legal procedures. If someone leaves an international association with obligations, there are also obligations after membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u182	I put Mr Azarkan first because I have a question on another subject, namely the future of the European Parliament. We have heard that Italy has used the previous General Affairs Council to replace that 73 with some sort of supranational list. I have asked whether that point has been dealt with, what the position of the Dutch Government has been and whether the Prime Minister will also oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u183	I just answered that question extensively. It's been treated from a to z. Italy.......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u184	Then you do not have to repeat your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u185	My sincere apologies. I've missed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u186	You can always read it back in the Acts. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u187	Mr. Chairman. It is precisely because many countries of the European Union have the same kind of questions and because some of these questions need to be answered through a better functioning of the European Union that it is important to make good use of the fresh wind that is now blowing in an important Member State in the heart of Europe. I hear that in the Prime Minister's answers and I welcome that. Working together to reform the EU: the budget is going to be an important part of it, and we will certainly be discussing it extensively in this Chamber. The minister said there's no menu for the negotiations. That's right. Let us keep that as a starting point for ourselves. Fair and equitable, a just and balanced solution, we must strive for. I shall come back once more to the position of all those people who are now in uncertainty, because I think that we may be able to move even faster on that point, and simply because of the human dimension we can try to achieve something in Europe at the moment. One of the examples is Elly Wright. She was married in 1967 to an Englishman with whom she had a son. She divorced quite quickly and was not allowed back to the Netherlands, because her son was not allowed to leave England. She has therefore been living there for 50 years and has now to show what she has been doing there for the past 50 years. It's like keeping that kind of paper for 50 years. You're gonna go way beyond human size. So once again my appeal to the Prime Minister: let's see if we can at least give people the assurance that they will not be deported until those negotiations have ended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u188	Mr. Chairman. Through Facebook, the Prime Minister expressed his satisfaction with the results in France; he welcomed European cooperation with Macron. But here he also made it clear that it is five to twelve. If, with its future French policy, the Dutch government and Macron fail to get the people who do not benefit from the European Union, from the euro and from globalisation, things could end quite differently. I'm glad to hear that realism is there, because I didn't see it last Sunday night. I did not see that with all the jubilant Twitter messages or with all kinds of politicians on television, who said 'this is a choice for Europe'. No. It was mostly a choice against Le Pen. Which is also encouraging. But the fact that a third of the French did not vote or voted blankly is worrying. As far as the Dutch government is concerned, there would be no separation of fights. Juncker and May, however, go rollin' down the street. The account went from 60 billion to 100 billion in three weeks. I don't think any of that is a good omen. I also do not think it is a good omen that the Prime Minister should consider the use of a smaller European Parliament, a smaller budget, a smaller European Commission and a stop to Strasbourg to be 'taken in' here. We don't know. We don't actually know if that's true. There's a lot of fog. I understand that you are not conducting the negotiations in public, but saying here that you brought it in and did not actually come back with it does not contribute to the support for the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u189	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Prime Minister. I am one of those who regard the result of the French elections as a new opportunity and as a result that gives us all the opportunity to move forward with the European Union. So that's good news. In response to what the Prime Minister said in his reply, I would nevertheless like to say something about transparency, although he may regret it. He says he likes to leave that point to his colleague Mr Koenders. But on the question of what exactly did the lunch at the Cat house with Denmark and Ireland, I found the Prime Minister's answer somewhat lean, especially in relation to the extensive way in which he answered a number of other questions. I think that on the subject of transparency a referral to the Foreign Minister will be fine tomorrow. However, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to answer the questions raised by the Chamber about that meeting of those three countries most affected. What's come out of that? What does the Prime Minister expect from the other mini-tops he's apparently going to organize? Do other countries, by the way, do they? Are they all going to organize mini-tops? Then it's gonna be a hell of a carnival for the next few days, I'd say. I would therefore appreciate a little more transparency, including from the Prime Minister's side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u190	Mr. Chairman. I note that the Prime Minister actually wants both matters: he wants to bring the medicine agency to the Netherlands, but at the same time he wants to stop the moving circus. To achieve both matters seems very complicated to me. If we don't give the medicine agency to France, we probably won't get out of that impasse. But the Prime Minister is very creative. So I'm open to all kinds of tricks he can think of and I'd like to hear his creative solution, isn't it today, or maybe over the next few weeks. I note that the Prime Minister is committed to reducing the number of MEPs by those 73 British seats. Support that. Finally, I have one motion to support the Minister with regard to the Turkish referendum on the reintroduction of the death penalty. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that Turkish President Erdogan intends to hold a referendum on the reintroduction of the death penalty in Turkey;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for a referendum on the reintroduction of the death penalty in Turkey to be held in the Netherlands for Turkish voters residing in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything in good time to prevent a referendum on Dutch soil on the reintroduction of the death penalty in Turkey and to inform the Chamber within one month of the legal possibilities for doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u191	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answers and, in particular, for the consensus we showed together on the great importance of the Benelux countries, three of the six founders of the original Union. It is good to report that 67 years later, on Europe Day. I would like to make the following comment on France. These elections have shown that France, after the United Kingdom, is much stronger than previously a divided country. I won't say anything else about that. It was traditionally left or right, but it is now national versus international. Others have also spoken about voting relations. Will we become more flexible or will we continue to monitor the financial frameworks for Germany and France? I heard the Prime Minister right about that. He was talking about sharing or not sharing debt positions. I would point out that France still has a public debt of 100% of the national product. That is quite different from what we are about to be on: almost half of it. Although French public debt is lower than Italy's, it is a worrying picture. Moreover, we know that France has been far beyond the 3% standard for years, with the green light of Brussels and even a little bit of Germany. How is it possible! Finally, a word about the Brexit. I would like to support Mr Omtzigt's remark. I spoke about the current citizens and future citizens over the next two years, but also Dutch people who have worked and/or lived in the UK in the past have rights, including in the area of pensions. Maybe the Prime Minister can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u192	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u193	Finally, the Prime Minister was clear about the consequences for the citizens if it does not come to a deal, but I hope he will also look at the financial commitments, which then disappear like snow before the sun.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u194	Mr Van Rooijen, you really have to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u195	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I was not entirely satisfied with the answer about the passage in the letter that "we will act when it is." I understand that there is some thought going on, but I'm not sure if there's any thought until it's time or if we're already thinking about what we're going to do. Much has been said about Strasbourg. I hope that the representatives of the people will not think that if we solve Strasbourg, confidence in Europe will be restored. I think there's a fundamental breach of confidence. I think that will require further and further analysis. In my previous contribution, I indicated that we should also look at the opportunities. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the United Kingdom has indicated by means of an Article 50 letter that it intends to leave the European Union and that this will lead to a process of negotiation;]] [[noting that the outcome of these negotiations may have many consequences for the economic position of the Netherlands and the economic position of the Netherlands in the European Union's internal market;]] [[Calls on the Government, in parallel with the process of negotiations on the departure of the United Kingdom, to continue to examine the potential (economic) opportunities of the UK's departure from the European Union for Dutch business and how these opportunities could be cashed;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber on a regular basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1228]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u196	Mr. Chairman. I notice tonight that many parties are very happy with the EU flag and the tones of the so-called EU song on the election night of the new President Macron. That is worrying, especially about the future. I had asked the cabinet about the vision for the future of the European Union. I would like an answer to that, as far as there is a vision. If there is no answer, I conclude that there is no vision or that I should look in the direction of Mr Verhofstadt for that vision. I also understand that the Prime Minister is not following everything Mrs Mogherini says. To be honest, I would rather not do that either, but she said at the end of the session with the Foreign Ministers that it is now up to the Turks to show their willingness and that 'we would be happy to have them'. I wonder who this "we" is and whether the cabinet agrees with this statement. Finally, the multiannual budget. The Prime Minister spoke of a letter coming this way. What is the government's position on the revision of the current multiannual budget, as the European Parliament wants in favour of greater flexibility, i.e. placing billions on the European budget? Does the Netherlands intend to veto this in the autumn? This may also be included in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u197	Mr. Chairman. I have a motion and a comment. I'll start with the motion. We have already discussed new alliances and the opinion of the International Affairs Advisory Council. It is not only the government that can seek advice from this Advisory Council; we can do so as a Chamber. This is the subject of this motion, which I would like to make on behalf of Mr Omtzig and Mr Voordewind. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands loses an important ally when leaving the United Kingdom from the European Union;]] [[Whereas this departure redefines the European balance of power;]] [[Considering that in its recent Brexit Opinion, the International Affairs Advisory Council concludes that the Netherlands should focus not only on close cooperation and coordination with Germany but also with North-West European countries after the Brexit;]] [[calls on the International Affairs Advisory Council to draw up an additional opinion indicating with whom and how such coalition formation could take place and what is necessary for that purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Anne Mulder, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1229]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u198	My comment concerns the provision of information to the Chamber and the way in which we discuss the documents. Do we do that confidentially? When do we do this in public? I don't want to be part of the division of labour in the cabinet. I believe that Mr Koenders is of good will, but we must make good agreements on this so that we can have good debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u199	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his contribution. I would like to touch briefly on a number of points. Turkey has dropped to 155 this year at the World Press Freedom Index of Reporters Without Borders. Erdogan's AK party made a proposal at the end of last year that perpetrators in rape cases would be dismissed from prosecution if they married their victims. In the meantime, not only gülenists, but also their family members and even friends are being arrested in Turkey and they must fear persecution. In this context, I repeat my question as to whether the European Union is prepared to use its economic weight to promote reforms in the field of human rights and democracy. How can we support this part of the Turkish population, which is committed to democracy, human rights, women's rights and the free press? If the Prime Minister is unable to answer that question immediately, I would ask him to come back to it in more detail in a subsequent debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u200	Mr. Chairman. My question is when we can hear about the sectors in the process, including the fisheries sector. That's very important, isn't it? I also have a comment about Italy. It is annoying that Italy wants supranational seats in the European Parliament. Perhaps the Prime Minister could point out to his Italian colleague that his own national parliament does not even have national seats, but only regional seats. If they want supranational seats, then they should first introduce national seats into their own parliament. So you have to be able to wipe that off the table. As far as Turkey is concerned, I have just heard a rather strange remark. So let me be clear: are we still negotiating in technical working groups and other issues about the chapters that are open or not being discussed at all? I would like to hear a clear statement on that. Everyone calls it all dead. Are all kinds of conversations taking place or not? Finally, a comment on Turkey. The CPT report shall not be public. This year there will be a regular inspection of Turkish prisons in the CPT cycle, while the previous ad hoc report is not even public. Then the whole mechanism doesn't make any sense. Can the government call me another country that has not made a CPT report of an ad hoc inspection public within six months?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u201	I see the Prime Minister can respond immediately. I shall give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u202	Mr. Chairman. There will be a general consultation with the Foreign Minister tomorrow, and that is also about Turkey. I do not have the answer to the question about the CPT report and we do not have all the people with us now. I would therefore ask Mr Omtzig to raise his last question again tomorrow. I will ask for this official to be transferred to the Minister so that he can prepare himself for the answer to the last question put by Mr Omtzigt. With regard to Mrs van den Hul's last question, my answer is: yes, human rights are very high on our agenda. Of course, we have the Council of Europe, which Turkey is also a member of, for a reason in order to determine where we are actually standing. What does the Venice Commission really think about this? He gave a ruling on the Turkish referendum. That will remain very important to us. Perhaps this is also a matter which she will be able to address tomorrow, to hear what was said at the Foreign Affairs Council on 28 April. Then the other questions. I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven that this certainty must be established. However, I cannot make a firm commitment about it now, because it depends on those negotiations. It is quite clear that the example she mentioned is extremely annoying. It's hugely personal for people when they don't know what they're up to. Then I'll come to Mrs. Leijten. What we have achieved is the Dutch commitment and the conclusions, but not that the number of seats in Parliament is falling or that the budget is falling. As the Netherlands we have bet on that, but that did not play on this summit; that plays on later summits. So let me be very precise. When I say'reached', we mean the commitment to the roof tiles of the two tracks for the Brexit negotiations, so the boundaries and the divorce bill and the position of the people over and over again. "As soon as possible" means that we hope that it will work between October and December, if there is sufficient progress on the future relationship. Then the vision of the European Union: "Wer Visionen hat, solte zum Arzt gehen," said Helmut Schmidt, former Chancellor of Germany. Nevertheless, I take up the challenge. Perhaps I could refer briefly to the introductory remarks following the election of President Macron in France. I set out my vision of the European Union in the first period of my response. The motion on the AIV in part No. 1229 I leave to the Chamber. I'll be right back to the other two motions. In this motion, the VVD asks for a ruling from the Chamber on a matter in which the government plays no further role. So I'm not gonna give you any advice on that, but I get it. I also understand the point about information. We will, of course, have to organize the information carefully, and we will. Once again, Mr Koenders will discuss this in greater detail in the Foreign Affairs Council tomorrow. I have two further motions on which I have to advise, and I still have to answer all the questions put by Mr Van Ojik. I always wait till the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u203	Mrs Van Veldhoven, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u204	I'll be brief. There was also sometimes a Prime Minister who said something about visions, but that was then in the Netherlands. My question concerns something else. The Prime Minister says he can't give guarantees for those people. I understand that, of course, but what can he do? The Prime Minister believes that these people cannot be in grave uncertainty for two years; but what can we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u205	Not anymore. I have to be honest: I have some experience with promises, so I'm really careful. You have already seen that I have improved quite a bit in the last campaign. On this serious matter, we are not going to say anything tough here, because it really depends on the conversations. If you go into a scenario where things go wrong, it will have far-reaching consequences; I already outlined this in response to a question I believe Mr Van Rooijen raised in the first term. For the Dutch Government, therefore, we consider this first track to be so important not only because of the divorce bill and the borders, but also because of the position of people. Look how many people work in the UK. Look how many British people work in the Netherlands. So this is so essential for a peaceful divorce and a transition to a new relationship that I can only say the following: what Mrs Van Veldhoven feels about this point, fully reflects on the Dutch commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u206	D66 is also in favour of lifelong learning, so I understand that the Prime Minister cannot make firm promises here. It is not sometimes a question of saying: this is what we are going to do about it. It can also be a process approach or a next step, to ensure that it is brought to the attention of the British and that people who have lived somewhere for at least ten years are not deported acutely. So anything is possible. So I am not asking for concrete promises, but I am asking for a feedback to see whether we can use any human measure in this, so that people do not have to be in dire uncertainty for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u207	Let us agree that we are not sending a separate letter on this, but that we are taking this aspect into account in further reports on the Brexit. I understand that Mrs Van Veldhoven is referring to the question of negotiation but also to dealing with individual cases. Of course, we are not going to deal with them in that letter, but we will explain how we deal with individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u208	The Prime Minister started very sympathetically with a question from me, but there are still two open. One. When are we going to hear about the sectors? Last time he asked me not to come up with that fishing motion now, because it will come later in the process. Two. Is negotiations still under way with Turkey? Are there any technical working groups in which we are still talking with Turkey about the chapters that are open?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u209	I look at the administrative profession and I see that there is a strong no. So there are neither official nor political discussions going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u210	And what is the answer to the first question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u211	We're on the first track now. This doesn't play there yet. I can imagine that, at the moment that track two comes into the picture, we will also report to the Chamber on our commitment and how we intend to deal with it. You'll have to see if you can do anything in public. If you are going to report your commitment to the public all the way by sector, then this may have consequences for those sectors and the outcome of the negotiations. But whether it is confidential or very public, we will understand ourselves with the Chamber about it, including in individual sectors. There's no other way. However, I think that we will be a little later in the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u212	A little later in the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u213	Yes. At least, that depends on how quickly that second track, the October-December window, comes into view in that roof tile construction, in that second track negotiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u214	Now the remaining motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u215	I come to Mr Van Ojik's questions about lunch. It was actually a post-breakfast, a pre-lunch with the Irish and Danish colleagues. Why was that lunch there at the time? That was because I thought it was important to strengthen ties with the Benelux countries, but also with Ireland and Denmark. We also have intensive contact with Sweden and other countries, including Belgium, which is of course also affected by a Brexit, especially the Flemish part, regardless of the Benelux context. This is not to try, together with these countries, to undermine the unity of the 27 Member States, but rather to further promote that unity. That's all we're interested in. We'll try to make something clear in the context of those 27. We are actually saying: friends, we all have to realise that there are countries that are getting worse in their economies and that a Brexit is also about all kinds of other aspects, but it is certainly about economic aspects as well as other countries. If at some point, for example, you are faced with the question of whether there is sufficient progress towards a fair and equitable conclusion regarding the Brexit separation, then it is important that at that time there are no countries that say: yes but, here I have another hair in the soup and there another hair in the soup. If we look very closely, we'll see that she floats too. Let's take it out with a tweezers, but let's start with that second track. That's the kind of conversation you have to have, just to promote the unity between the 27. At the same time, you must all be very honest about the fact that within those 27 countries there are countries that are more affected. That's objective, actually perceptible. In that sense, the meeting is also the message. We were together. Then, of course, we will talk in detail about questions such as 'what does that mean for our countries, for fisheries and for other sectors?' And "how do we handle that?" You cannot report on everything in detail, because it is sometimes about very specific economic sectors in those countries. How do we promote unity in the 27? Mr Van Ojik made a bit of a laugh about the context, about that "minitop" as he called it. However, I think it is important that the Netherlands play an active role now that the UK is leaving. This also fits with the previous AIV opinion. We're not a small country. Our economy is seen as the largest of the smaller economies or the smallest of the large economies. We are next to Spain. After the Netherlands, there's a big gap before you get to the next economy. The Netherlands, especially as one of the six founders, plays on average slightly above its weight class. That weight class isn't very low anyway because of the size of our economy. So now that the UK is leaving, I think it is logical that we should try to get in touch with similar countries or with countries that we can assume have similar positions, and sometimes with countries that do not. Of course, we do not agree with Poland and Hungary in all respects, but they are countries that have their views again. Examples include the Czech Republic and Slovakia and the Baltics and the three northern countries. We are looking for that kind of contact, much more intense than we have. In that context, you need to see those mini-tops. With regard to transparency, I fully agree with Mr Van Ojik. I've been trying to tell you a little bit more about that lunch or that post-breakfast or that pre-lunch. We will try to give even greater openness in subsequent reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u216	A brief comment or question, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u217	I'll be brief. It's kind of funny that the Prime Minister says that I'm a little laughy about it, while he himself passes from a term like "top" to terms like "lunch," "prelunch" and "minilunch." So if there's anyone who's making the point, I think it's the Prime Minister himself. Let me be clear: in the context of transparent relations between the Cabinet and the Chamber, I am concerned that it is clear what this type of meeting is intended to do and that it is subsequently clear whether what it was intended to do has been achieved in practice. In this sense, I welcome the somewhat more comprehensive response given by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u218	We will try to inform the Chamber as comprehensively as possible before and after the end. If that has not been done now, it is my fault and we will discuss it a little more in greater detail next time. It would also be nice to dwell a little longer on this, but I will not provoke it. Mrs Maeijer asked about the statements in Valletta by Federica Mogherini, the High Representative. In fact, she said that the accession negotiations did not open new chapters and that Turkey knew what to do in areas such as human rights, the rule of law, democracy and freedom to get back into a situation where there could be talk. I think that's exactly what I'm saying: the negotiations are comatose. Turkey knows what to do, but it is not moving at the moment. So the comatose goes on. I'm getting to the motions. The motion in part No. Mr Voordewind's 1227 should be discouraged, if only because there is no intention at all for such a referendum at this time in a formal sense. I could imagine him holding the motion. Let us first look at what the Turks are going to do and whether such a referendum is going to happen or not. We are, of course, preparing for eventualities, but perhaps we should be a little careful to respond to everything here. This is a serious matter. When such a referendum comes, we take it very seriously, but I have already explained it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u219	Before you proceed, Mr Voordewind has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u220	I would like to look at the text, but I think it is in line with what the Prime Minister said: the commitment, also looking at Germany, is to counter this. If a textual change can help the Prime Minister, I am, of course, prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u221	Yeah, but they're also asking for reports to the Chamber. I really think that's going too far. There's a threat of such a referendum. That is what we are talking about, because we find this annoying in Europe. We do not want this, because a referendum on the death penalty is self-evident against our values, but to say once again that reports on this matter come... If Mr Voordewind interprets his own motion in this way, the motion will support the policy and therefore be superfluous. Then I would advise against the motion, because we are against that referendum, and if there is, we will try to see if what the Germans are doing is legally possible here too. I have already promised Mr Voordewind that. If it comes to the referendum, and if we have to make a legal assessment, we will, of course, inform the Court about it in the progress reports. So everything in the motion is already settled. The point is that I find the adoption of such a motion a signal, even though that referendum has not even been issued. Then I think we're too hoarse, really. I'm against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u222	We're not going to do the debate again. The Prime Minister of Turkey has expressed his intention. That means we have to be alert and prepare. Last time we played panic football. The motion calls for the legal preparation to be undertaken. Furthermore, the motion is in line with what the Prime Minister says. I shall therefore put the motion to the vote, because I see that there is no difference of opinion, perhaps only in terms of wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u223	Yes, but with that interpretation, the motion is superfluous, and that's how I advise her. Against the motion in part No. I have no objection to Mr Azarkan's 1228. I consider that motion to support policy. There are always risks to bilateral economic interests. There are two people in the London embassy for the economic support of Dutch business. So I think we agree with that. I think I've answered all the questions with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u224	I forgot to mention that Mrs Leijten also supports the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u225	Then I'm totally against it. No, that's a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u226	You shouldn't have said that, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u227	This is all the more reason for the motion to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u228	The signature of the motion in part No. 1227 has therefore been amended, because Mrs Leijten is a co-signatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-19.u229	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Prime Minister, his officials, the MPs and the people who have followed this debate in a different way.
