ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. The European summit talks about 60 years of Union, about the threats, the challenges and the future of the Union. That's very good. One of the major challenges is the relationship with Turkey. The current President of that country has declared European Heads of Government, including the Dutch leader, to be Nazis. Other ministers have done the same. There have been many other qualifications that I could not even repeat in two minutes. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how he feels about this and how this can be prevented. Since there is a very active attempt to campaign here and since Dutch nationals are also being called very actively to protest and to do other things, I think it is necessary for the countries of the European Union to draw a common line. It is not formally on the agenda, but if the EU leaders do not talk about this, they really miss a very important issue at their formal and informal meeting. The Chamber, heard the debate, Notes that, despite repeated requests, Turkey does not disclose the CPT reports (the Council of Europe Anti-Torture Committee) on visits to Turkish prisons in the summer of 2016; noting that the European Union still pays pre-accession aid to Turkey for the prison system there, i.e. almost EUR 2 million per month; calls on the Government to ensure that the EU collectively requests these reports and that they become public within four weeks; calls on the Government to ensure that pre-accession aid, in particular for prisons, is stopped immediately, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Verhoeven, Mr Voordewind, Mr Karabulut and Mr Bishop. She's getting No. 1729 (21501-02).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u2	I have a second motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that the Turkish Government is openly campaigning in several European countries and that Turkey, through its Ministry of Religious Affairs, appoints Turkish officials in Dutch mosques to read out sermons prepared and approved by the Turkish authorities on Friday; noting that in Articles 16 and 17 the ECHR provides for restrictions on the political activities of foreign nationals; calls on the Government, in consultation with the other EU Member States and within three weeks to present a proposal for a common line on the area of political activity in the European Union by non-Member State Turkey, and to inform the Court thereof, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Voordewind, Mr Karabulut and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 1730 (21501-02).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. While the Turkish Government is trying to export tensions in its own country to Europe, it is increasingly dramatic with the situation and the rule of law in its own country. For example, a large part of the opposition has been silenced. Hence the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, Considering that elected parliamentarians in Turkey are wrongly arrested and prosecuted and that it makes it impossible for the opposition to carry out its democratic tasks; condemns this approach by the Turkish Government and calls on the Government to work towards the release of elected parliamentarians at EU level, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Voordewind and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 1731 (21501-02).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. Our country, the Netherlands, like Germany, exports millions of weapons and military equipment to Turkey, while that equipment is currently being used against its own population. Germany is already working on this, in the sense that they are trying to curb it. We should do the same and therefore the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that Germany has restricted exports of military equipment to Turkey; calls on the Government to suspend exports of military equipment to Turkey, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 1732 (21501/02).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. For more than ten years now, the PVV has taken the view that Turkey does not belong to Europe. And what have we gotten right over the last few months! Turkey, of course, is not part of Europe, not mentally, not culturally, not politically, in any way. Turkey's accession to Europe is therefore also a matter that we should not pursue at all. The PVV believes that the accession negotiations can and should be stopped. We really need to stop dragging a dead horse for longer, so to speak. We must be clear about Turkey. We must make it clear that we will not go with them to allow them into the European Union. They just don't belong and they just need to know that from now on. So we should not sit down again and keep wet and mix milk and water with each other. It just needs to be over and that needs to be made clear. Turkey's misconduct, including in recent weeks, towards our country has, of course, contributed to that incredibly bad image that you can and must have of Turkey: ministers entering our country, simply entering our country when they know they are not wanted. They just do it anyway. Furthermore, the Turkish potentate Erdogan now threatens us even with religious wars if we do not adapt to his culture. We shouldn't want any of that. We have to stop doing that. I have just one message for the Prime Minister: tell Turkey that they are not welcome, carry it out in the European Union and just put diplomatic relations with Turkey on a very low level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. The warnings or warnings Threats from President Erdogan towards Europe and towards the Netherlands seem to stop. The Netherlands would be a fascist, Nazi country. The Netherlands would be responsible for the deaths of 8,000 Srebrenica men. There seems to be no end to these accusations. This calls for a strong signal from Europe, but also from the Netherlands. That is why the EU must send out a clear message that it will not let go and that the Netherlands must stop handing over these accession funds to Turkey. That is why my group has co-signed Mr Omtzigt's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. Of course, we saw bizarre scenes a few weeks ago. First of all, we were confronted in the morning with a Turkish foreign minister, who saw the need to threaten sanctions, while there were discussions about the form in which he could address a group of Dutch people here in the Netherlands, who would also vote in the Turkish referendum. While those conversations were still going on, he came forward with the threat of sanctions. At that time, the Dutch Government decided that, under pressure of sanctions and blackmail, we cannot continue to negotiate to withdraw the landing rights from the Turkish Foreign Minister's aircraft. That is a step without precedent, but it is necessary, given the whole context. Later that day, the Turkish Minister of Family Affairs turned out to be on our way to Rotterdam. We let her know that we did not want that for reasons of public order, but that we also did not want any action from her in any way here in the Netherlands because of what happened that morning, those threats with sanctions. This has led to the whole scene in Rotterdam and the major disturbances of public order that arose from it. Eventually, we led her back to Germany. That was all Saturday and Saturday night, on March 11th, I say out of my mind. We then had to deal with the most horrible spoils, expressed by the Turkish President towards the Netherlands, Germany, Europe. We always distance ourselves from that in the most powerful terms. We're not gonna be messed with. Hence the firm reactions to these statements. At the same time, the Dutch Government has decided not to seek the escalation itself. We have taken steps without precedent, both in the morning and at night, against ruling Turkish ministers who wanted to act in the Netherlands. Given the context of that night, we had to take those steps. We think it is wise not to escalate from our side, but to make it clear every time that we feel that the Turkish Government is going over the line with statements which, in a number of cases, are actually contrary to what is appropriate between civilized peoples. Certainly the statements about fascism, Nazism and Srebrenica were way out of line and unacceptable. Against that background, I come to the motions, starting with the motion in part No. 1729 by Mr Omtzigt, also signed by a few others. Strictly speaking, this motion is superfluous and I should advise against it, but let us try to find unity here today on the important issues. That motion is in fact superfluous, because the General Affairs Council on 13 December already stated that we want that report to be public. It is only the case that Turkey decides on this. It has not happened so far, but both we and the European Union continue to press for that report to be published. The motion also calls for the suspension of pre-accession aid. The Netherlands has been in favour of this since the coup attempt, but there is no support for it in Europe and no support for it in the Council. We continue to work for this. I think we should do so, in the spirit of this first meeting between me and the new Parliament and in view of the importance of the subject of Turkey, that we find that this is support for government policy and that the adoption of this motion strengthens us even more in continuing our commitment to the request made in the motion. I come to the second motion on the banning of Turkish campaign activities, the motion in part No. 1730. At the moment, there is no chance that this common European line will come into existence. This applies not only to Europe, but also to the like-minded nations, see among other things the Franco-German declaration of 16 March. However, here too, my suggestion would be to adopt that motion. Then I will ask the Foreign Minister to consider whether that support could be unexpectedly achieved in the coming weeks. I hope so, but I don't think so. We're gonna do our best to do that. We are doing that, by the way. There are a lot of contacts in Europe on this issue. I honestly do not expect that there will be joint action on such a ban, but we can do our best to do so. I will therefore pass that motion on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and ask him to stand up for it. The motion by Mrs Karabulut and others in part No. 1731 condemns this practice of the Turkish Government. That's a statement from the Chamber. I cannot take it on board, but I can leave it to myself because it is a ruling from the Chamber and not from the government. I say this very formally because, of course, we cannot go into Turkish justice. I agree with the appeal made to the cabinet. This is also the government's standing policy. This motion, therefore, is strictly superfluous, but I would also like to say this in the interests of unanimity: if we stand behind this motion together, the cabinet will feel even more obliged to do so than it has already done. The motion in part No. 1732, on the other hand, I really must be discouraged because the German Government does not have a general ban on exports. When exporting military equipment, the German Government always checks whether it can be deployed in a manner contrary to human rights. The same applies to the Dutch export of military equipment to Turkey. The government therefore does not agree with the general request to suspend exports. What it says about Germany doesn't add up. I would therefore advise against this motion, but I would point out that both the Dutch and the German Governments always consider whether the equipment can be used in violation of human rights when exporting military equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u8	At the moment, the human rights situation in Turkey is dramatic. So I cannot imagine at this moment in any way that we would be supplying arms to Turkey, which would then, for example, be used against its own people. Can the Prime Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u9	I refer to what I have just said: we are already looking at that. Turkey is also a NATO ally. I would therefore be against a general arms embargo. However, I agree with Mrs Karabulut that we must continue to check, as the Germans do, whether the weapons cannot be used in a way that is contrary to the maintenance of human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u10	Can the Prime Minister guarantee that no weapons are being delivered to Turkey that are being used against its own population, thus causing civilian deaths?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u11	I can only guarantee that the Dutch Government will always monitor this when granting arms export licences, but general guarantees are, of course, never to be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u12	We think it wise that the Prime Minister should now state that a de-escalating role is important. However, we would like to know from him whether diplomats were detained and imprisoned for a short time on the Saturday night in question. Is that right or not? If so, who gave the order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u13	In the chaos of that night, Turkish diplomats may have been in prison for several hours. We'll find out all about it. In my contacts that night, I told the Turkish Prime Minister that we regret it if it were, but that we want to get to the bottom of it first. We regret the detention of two Turkish diplomats. It was chaos. We also want to know whether the Turkish diplomats themselves have done everything they could to prevent us from not knowing that they are Turkish diplomats. So that's what we're all trying to figure out. If that were the case, we regret that they were in prison, I said to the Turkish Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u14	The Prime Minister says he's gonna do a thorough investigation into that. I would therefore like him to give me the undertaking that he will share that information with the Chamber and I would like to know at what time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u15	Frankly, Mr Kuzu is now zooming in on a very small element of that night. I am also very curious to hear from him how he reflects at all on what happened those days and also on Erdogan's comments in the following weeks about the Netherlands, about Srebrenica, about fascism, about Nazism...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u16	To be honest, I can't help but notice that I don't hear him talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u17	This is due to the fact that the Prime Minister is listening selectively, because I did say that the Netherlands is not a fascist country and that Dutch people are not fascists, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u18	But you're okay with him saying that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u19	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. He's asking me a question. I'd like to sit in your place too, but after all, you've been elected. What I do point out is that xenophobia and nationalism are a pressing problem. I think it is essential that this small part has put further pressure on the escalation between the two countries. I would like to know from the Minister whether he wishes to answer the question I have just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-23-tweedekamer-7.u20	I just answered it. But I am still surprised that the President of the Turkish State is speaking about the Netherlands, about Germany and even directly about the German Chancellor, that she can also be personally accused of fascist tendencies, while I only hear Mr Kuzu talking about the imprisonment of two Turkish diplomats.
