ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Mrs Klijnsma. I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the case of voluntary pension schemes such as net pensions, pension funds can now only offer a fixed benefit, while insurers can offer both fixed and variable benefits. The Secretary of State's proposal to introduce the law of the shop will touch on the task definition discussion. For the purposes of the net pension product and the job definition, the State Secretary also indicated at an earlier stage to examine the extent to which job definition requirements could hinder the execution by pension funds of variable benefits in voluntary pension schemes such as net pensions. I also refer to the Van Rooijen and others motion. (34255, letter N) lodged in the First Chamber. It seems logical to me to take this point immediately, now that the job definition is also modified by introduction of shop law. This is in the interest of the participants, as a variable benefit is expected to provide a higher pension than a fixed benefit because it is possible to invest and thus benefit from the additional investment income. I am therefore happy to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the acute problem of the net pension product has been resolved;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet links this with the introduction of a shop fee for the net pension, which affects the job definition;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is seeking to include this change in the small pension transfer bill, which is currently before the Council of State for its opinion;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State has undertaken to examine the extent to which job definition requirements may hinder the proper execution of variable pension benefits in the case of voluntary pension provision offered by pension funds;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to include in the Small Pension Transfer Bill the possibility for pension funds to implement variable benefits in the collective variant, including in net pension schemes where no employer contribution is included,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-371]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. In any case, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for two commitments she made in general consultation. Together with my colleague Omtzigt from the CDA, I had asked for pension fund recovery plans to become more public. The Secretary of State does not want legislation at the moment, but is on top of it and calls on pension funds. I saw that this also immediately led to changes in communication at PFZW, and I hope that many funds will follow. Could the Secretary of State at the end of the year give us an overview of whether funds have actually responded to the call she made? The Secretary of State has also promised a letter on the Caribbean Netherlands Pension Fund. I am still curious about the exact time that we will receive that letter and I assume that, should that be the case, any purchasing power repair will also be included in that letter. I'd like to get a confirmation of that. I hope, above all, that a good solution can be found for all parties. I'd also like to remind you of the following. I have asked Parliamentary questions to the Secretary of State for Finance and Social Affairs about the self-employed pension and its buy-back, and about the fact that you have to state before 1 July that you have stopped your current retirement. It remains unclear to me why this is really necessary now, especially since people have a year and a half afterwards to choose a new pension provision. I have put questions to the House about this by asking them to be answered before 1 July, and I would like to repeat this here with force because it is almost 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. We indicated during the AA that we do not want the European Commission or the EU to have access to our pensions and pension pots in any way. We do not therefore want the revised IORP Directive to be implemented. More than 100 amendments are needed to the Dutch pension and supervisory laws. We don't want that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to make any adjustments to the Dutch pension and supervisory laws in any way on the basis of the revised IORP Directive and not to allow the implementation of this European Pension Directive to continue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Jong. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-372]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. During the general consultation on pension issues, many issues were discussed. I think we have discussed most of the issues in detail. However, I would like to raise one more point: the net pension scheme. Mr Van Rooijen has just tabled a motion on this subject. I am concerned that the problem is urgent. My group is in favour of the adjustment of purchasing rates, and certainly also of shopping law. Since it is such an urgent problem, I ask the Secretary of State when the first part of the cabinet's chosen solution, namely the adjustment of the purchasing rate, will be submitted to the Chamber. In my view, the Secretary of State is already quite far in her discussions and it should not be very difficult to put that into a General Measure of Management and to put it before this Chamber as soon as possible, so that we can start such a procedure. I sincerely hope it's possible for the recess, but maybe it can even be done in the recess. It is not so much about us but, above all, about the people who are affected and who have to deal with an exceptionally expensive arrangement. So urgency is very necessary in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	The Secretary of State has indicated that it can respond directly to the questions put to it and give an appreciation of the motions. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the members of the Chamber who have contributed. I shall begin with Mr Van Rooijen, who has tabled a motion asking the government to 'examine whether it is possible to include in the Small Pension Transfer Act the possibility for pension funds to implement variable benefits in the collective variant, including in net pension schemes where no employer contribution is included'. I have to discourage this motion. Of course, we would very much like the draft law on the transfer of value for small pensions to reach the final stage quickly. The relaxation of job definition requirements for pension funds really affects the organisation of the market. You know that is also part of the broad pension debate. At the moment, therefore, the motion is not timely and I must advise against it. I come to Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mrs Klijnsma, this gives rise to a further question for Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	I referred to the motion adopted in the Senate on the same subject. It asked for that research to be carried out before 1 January 2017, as well as ahead of my demand. Does the Secretary of State understand that we are now being asked to give pension funds the same opportunities as insurers? Because of the shopping rights introduced here, people can choose between a fixed and a variable benefit from insurers. A variable can be more beneficial because then you can invest further. Pension funds do not have that option. This means that, within the pension fund scheme, it is only possible to obtain a fixed benefit in the collective system, which does not lead to indexation. In the interests of this scheme, we believe that the people in a pension fund should also receive the variable and better benefits. Surely we should not wait years for a new pension system to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm not saying we have to wait years. We know, of course, that the SER is busy and is looking at how to improve the system. That's where this belongs. I would like to inform the House that if you wanted to settle this in the draft law on the transfer of small pensions which is now before the Council of State, you would, as it were, put the bill on hold. I'd be very sorry to hear that. That is why I do not want to embrace this motion now, but put it in the discussion that is pending before the ESC.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	A final comment by Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	I can't get an answer to the question I asked. Why do people who are in pension funds only have the right to and the right to a flat-rate benefit, while they can also opt for an insurer and receive better and variable benefits through the right to shop for the net pension? That's not fair, is it? It's gonna have to be arranged soon, right? It's opening a new option. And the Secretary of State introduced shop law himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have just answered that precisely because the Chamber is now discussing both possibilities and we can also give them to people who are concerned, the situation is already better than it was. The Chamber, and I too, quite rightly took up the problem of the net pension scheme. But I really think that the thrust of the motion should be in the context of the job definition. It belongs, I say it again, to the discussion as it is now being discussed with the ESC.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	Continue your reply!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	I come to Mr Van Weyenberg. He asked me if at the end of the year I could give an overview of the communication on recovery plans. I will check with De Nederlandsche Bank whether it is possible to provide that overview at the end of the year. Then I'll get to the BES islands and the PCIN.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	A question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	If there's an unexpected break in the line of duty, I don't expect that to happen, then I guess we'll hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	Of course. That's how I communicate with the room. Then I'll get to the PCIN. I've reported to the Chamber that there are conversations going on right now. I assume that my colleague from BZK will soon inform the Chamber of the outcome of those talks, but I cannot anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	Does the Secretary of State have any idea if "soon" means before the summer recess? I understand that we are waiting for the letter from the Secretary of State's colleague, but'soon' is a broad term, just like'summer' in the Acts; then it is also just September.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	Can you put a time limit on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	The summer recess is busy, because that will of course be tomorrow in a week. I dare not promise this to the Chamber, because that is really a short time. I know they're really working on it, so I'm assuming it'll be in the summer. Then I come to a question from Mr De Jong. In the motion in part No. 372 does not call on the government to make any adjustments in the context of the revised IORP Directive. I advise against this motion, because the directives are always being implemented. Moreover, this directive is really not a negative one. I have told the Chamber very carefully on which parts of the legislation is being amended, so we are going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	Now the Secretary of State says something remarkable. It says that this directive does not bring out anything bad at all. However, Dutch pension and supervisory laws are being amended, on the initiative of the European Commission. That's not good in principle. In this way, the Commission will have access to our pension, to the way in which we deal with it and to the way in which we are or do not want to complete supervision. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to consider whether we should not better keep our national laws, our national pension supervision laws in our own hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	This is a discussion that we have had many times. Since we are part of Europe, of course, we are also in this way with Europe. I like that, too. I said for a reason that this directive improves our pension system. That in itself is not wrong at all. However, it is our pension system. Europe is not about that. We are also looking, with the social partners at the forefront, at how to further improve our pension system. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	Without going over the AO again, I will give Mr De Jong another chance to make one final final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	I would ask the Secretary of State to take the Dutch legislation and the Dutch supervisory laws seriously for our pension. If the Secretary of State says that improvements are possible, it must do so on its own initiative and not on the initiative of the European Commission. I would like to make this point to the cabinet. We should not become a kind of municipality within the European Union, where we have nothing more to decide. This is a remark that the Secretary of State can work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	The House of Representatives and the First Chamber of Parliament of the European Communities shall determine whether or not to comment on the legislation. It is therefore up to the Chamber to deal with that. It's as simple as that. We have it in our own hands, too. That too is clear. However, it is not wrong to look beyond borders at all. Mrs Lodders has asked when the net pension scheme, the adjustment of the purchasing rate, will take shape. This should be done in an orderly manner through a General Measure of Governance. The Chamber is also in the process of doing so. My people are busy entrusting that AMvB to the paper. I'm assuming I can offer it to the Chamber during the summer recess. Then there'll be a front suspension procedure. Then she goes to the Council of State. We know it takes time. The AMvB will be placed in the Staatsblad at the latest on 1 January 2018. If the Chamber could speed up, that would be to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	I would like to stress once again the point made by the Secretary of State: at the latest. The adjustment of the purchase prices must really take place by 1 January at the latest, because, as I have just said, I have already raised this issue several times in the debate, and at the moment there is a major problem, not so much for us, but for the people involved. We can't let that happen to an accident. Does the Secretary of State share this and can she give a further explanation of "in the summer recess"? Then I can keep a very close eye on my mailbox in that week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	The Secretary of State shares that tremendously. That in itself is nothing new either. I think they're sharing this Chamberwide. So there is no difference of opinion at all. There's a reason I'm saying that my people are incredibly hard-working right now. If, after the summer recess has come, the Chamber immediately and immediately takes up the procedure, I can forward the matter to the Council of State. The Council of State does not have to take an awful long time, I say to the Council of State carefully. So maybe we can bring it forward, but we do have to do it in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VAO. The votes on the motions are scheduled for Tuesday, 4 July.
