ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on infrastructure digitisation. We have three speakers from the Chamber and the first is Mr Van der Lee from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. He has three minutes of speaking time, like everyone else. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Digitisation is a blessing. With smart applications, there are still huge opportunities to save energy, share cars or better protect us from the water. KPN recently estimated that by saving smart digital applications up to 73 million tonnes of CO. Uncontested is also the economic potential of digitalization and who knows, the Netherlands is still transforming into a true Dutch digital valley. But digitalization can be a curse as well as a blessing. Last Monday, Willem Buiter, the chief economist of the Citigroup, claimed that 80% of the causes behind increased inequality between rich and poor and the stagnation of middle-class wages can be explained by technological developments. This risk of division is one of the public values at stake in this digital age, according to the Planning Bureau for the Environment. In its alert report, the PBL deals with other public values such as privacy and transparency, but also with the security of our infrastructure. It is rightly noted that digitisation as infrastructure increasingly determines the use and service of all our networks. Whether it concerns aviation, roads, rail, water or the electricity grid, wherever digitisation is controlled in our infrastructure, vulnerability increases. Now the Minister for Economic Affairs is not responsible for all the infra in our country, but we also know that the energy grid is the most popular target of hackers in particular. The PBL reports on six different ways digitalization threatens security of supply and it has recently been announced that the number of ransomware variants has grown by as much as 122% last year. Economic damage is too easy to do on a large scale, as we saw recently in the port of Rotterdam. Our cybersecurity is far from in order, even though new steps are being taken, such as the Digital Trust Center for SMEs. That is why I have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs to go into the seven handles that the PBL is calling for in order to prevent digitisation from undermining protective values. I hope you, Minister, will be able to deal with all seven points. I'm not going to repeat them here. But there is also an urgent need to strengthen the capacity and control capacity of the government. Do you agree, Minister, that a strong investment in this area is justified? Now I know that the Minister has not succeeded in aligning the response to this report with other rulers, because digitisation as a subject is rather widespread. I would urge him, in his last days as minister, to share his wise lessons on how the government should deal with the tension between digitisation and public values. On one point, I hope that he, or else his colleagues per motion, will go a step further today. The chances and risks of inevitably increasing digitalisation are so great that they transcend the portfolio of one ruler. An alliance of 30 companies, civil society organisations and knowledge institutions has recently advocated the creation of a separate digital sub-committee. Do you agree with me that such an additional Council of Ministers sub-committee can ensure an integrated approach to the digital dilemmas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you. Then there is Mr Hijink of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. The public interest is snowing a little. I liked it understatement by Mrs. Snellen, researcher at the Planning Bureau for the Environment. You can also strengthen it: it is possible for smart hackers to shut down our power, to shut down our factories and to turn off the light in homes. This is good for a new wave of birth, but also a great danger to our economy, public health and our security. At the beginning of last month it was announced that hacker collective Dragonfly 2.0 is able to take over dozens of energy companies in the United States and Europe, literally up to the level at which electricity can be shut down in households and businesses. Can the Minister indicate whether Dutch energy suppliers have been affected by this attack? What other countries in Europe have been affected and to what extent will our electricity supply be at risk if our neighbouring countries are faced with large-scale blackouts? Thanks to the work of Willem Westerhof, a researcher and ethical hacker, we also know that the converters for solar panels are easy to hack. The disabling of thousands of systems is then possible, resulting in massive outage of electricity. How does the Minister respond to this vulnerability in our electricity supply? In June, the House of Representatives supported the proposal I made together with Mr Verhoeven of D66 to take more measures to improve the security of equipment connected to the Internet. Is the Minister going to carry out this motion that has been passed? Why are we waiting for measures from Brussels before we get to work ourselves? Is the Minister prepared to investigate how, in a collaboration between government, business, hackers and cybersecurity experts, we can test these devices with hack tests? Mr. Chairman. As far as the SP is concerned, the government must protect security of supply and equal access to our infrastructure. The question is whether this is happening enough at the moment. Is our country prepared for large-scale attacks on our power supply? Do we have a picture of how many unsafe converters hang in Dutch houses? Does the government have enough knowledge to win the permanent battle between hackers and security guards? The question that the Plan Bureau rightly asks for the Environment is what public values we want to protect in our country. If the government is the guardian of the collective interest, it is not appropriate to shift responsibility for safety and security to the people who need to be able to rely on safe equipment. Then you as a government should take the lead and keep ahead, not look away when electricity companies can be hacked and act as Dutch households are stuffed with unsafe equipment. I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether he would like to support the SP's proposal to test equipment more frequently for its security tonight or later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you. Mr Jetten from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to cyber, of course you all expect my colleague Verhoeven here behind the cathedral, but tonight you can do it with me. That's a good thing, because digitisation is one of the great forces of change in our society, and it's good that we're talking about it in this Chamber and that it's getting wider than just those few MPs who have had cyber for years. People, businesses and governments are using more and more digital technology, and we are talking too little about it in this Chamber. The reason for today's debate is an excellent report by the Planning Office for the Environment on mobility and electricity in the digital age. Digitalisation offers opportunities but also brings challenges. Digitisation can put pressure on public values such as accessibility, security and privacy. This requires political attention and direction. Mr Van der Lee has already referred to the proposal for a digital sub-committee dealing specifically with this issue. I am very pleased that a number of organisations and now also GroenLinks embrace this proposal by Mr Verhoeven of D66. Let me take an example that is closer to my own portfolio, namely infrastructure and mobility: self-driving cars. That's an opportunity. We all see the beautiful pictures in front of us. In 10, 15 years, we can read the paper in a car. There are fewer road accidents, fewer traffic jams, and thus the self-driving car is also better for the economy. But self-driving cars also bring challenges. How do we deal with the data these cars generate? How do we make sure those cars aren't hacked? How do we deal with the algorithms that have to make complex choices about road safety? Does the Minister see these challenges? Mr. Chairman. Not all digitisation is necessary. Sometimes we want to digitize things that perhaps we shouldn't digitize, such as the voting process or certain parts of our vital infrastructure that we want to protect from hacks. Does the Minister agree with me on this? How does this balance take place when it comes to the digitisation of our vital infrastructure? Mr. Chairman. The PBL has produced a good report, which gives good guidance to conduct the debate on digitalisation in the coming years. It also raises new dilemmas, and we need to think carefully about the impact of policies and laws on our public values, on cybersecurity and on privacy. Does the Minister share these conclusions of the OJ? The PBL also rightly points to the need for digital knowledge, not only for people and businesses, but also for the government and the Chamber. We also need outside help for that from time to time. Finally, two specific questions. Last week, the city of The Hague had hackers test the IT systems, a so-called bug bounty challenge. Earlier, the firefighters also had their fire trucks tested. Is the Minister prepared to organise these kinds of challenges at a rich level? My second question is about the use of algorithms by the government. Algorithms are not necessarily neutral and can have major consequences for people. Is there an overview of public services, both at state and municipal level, where algorithms are used to make decisions? If not, is the Minister prepared to make such an overview? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u7	A question from Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u8	I hear Mr Jetten say that there are processes that you should not want to digitize. I find that very special, because there is only something mentioned about the voting process, for example. Is that the only thing, or do you say: well, there are more processes that we shouldn't digitize? Or should we create an infrastructure where you could vote with digitalization?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u9	The debate on the voting process is often enough here, I think. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment recently had a meeting with the Delta Commissioner. There are major challenges for the renewal of our waterworks and also for their protection. That is where you have to continually consider: can digitalisation strengthen water safety or are we not sufficiently able to secure the digitisation of these waterworks so well that we are sure that they cannot be hacked? You have to look there all the time to see what digitalization adds. Sometimes you have to decide to rely on old systems and techniques, because they are safer at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u10	I find that very special, because that could also mean something for aviation, for example. Maybe we shouldn't digitize aviation. Or the cars. You are sorry: Mr Jetten was very enthusiastic about self-driving cars. But that could be very dangerous. If they can be hacked, that's a problem. I'm a little confused about exactly what D66 wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u11	Then let me help Mr Bosman with that. He now chooses the example of aviation himself. There is already a high degree of digitalisation. But if you look at the systems of air traffic control, for example, they are old systems, which are increasingly under pressure, not only because they cannot cope with the capacity of current air traffic, but also because hackers are increasingly capable of attacking those systems. So where there is digitalization, you must constantly try to further strengthen and improve it. While there is no digitalisation yet, there are, of course, always opportunities, but I think that this report also gives a good reason not to run behind these opportunities like a horse without a head, but to keep thinking about whether digitisation is a good step forward or whether we need to improve and strengthen it before we go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u12	Rounding up. Short. Oh, I see you're done. Very good. Then Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u13	I have a short question on another point. It is very good that Mr Jetten also addresses the use of algorithms, because that is not value-free. Of course, certain decision-making patterns are included which simply include choices. How does Mr Jetten intend to gain more insight into this? Of course, we have privacy impact assessments when it comes to data protection. But how could you do that with algorithms that the government also uses to map certain decision patterns?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u14	My question now to the Minister is to at least map where we are already using the algorithms, so that we can better follow that and analyse to what extent we are doing this in a good way. I have been a city council member for years, and then you see that algorithms are increasingly used at local level to detect frauds, for example, or to make decisions in the area of care or work. We must be careful not to subconsciously add discriminatory aspects to such an algorithm. So I think it's good to map out which algorithms are there, so we're also better able to keep checking. If it goes in the wrong direction, we can intervene in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mrs Bruins Slot's contribution. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes that the Plan Bureau for the Environment has written a good report on the ongoing digitisation of infrastructure and public values. The CDA also shares the view of the Plan Bureau for the Environment that ICT innovations give a huge boost to the efficient and sustainable use of infrastructure and that it has enormous added value. Of course, business also plays an important role in this. But the planning agency also stressed very strongly that there is a downside. Mr Van der Lee has already mentioned this. The PBL warns of a division in society of higher and lower educated people, of older people and, for example, of people with a slightly intellectual disability. But there are also areas in the Netherlands, Mr Kamp knows that, which do not have broadband internet. The CDA recognizes this danger of division. The government has a job to do here. How does the Minister look at this tension field? Mr. Chairman. A second downside is the vulnerability of digital infrastructure. The SP and GroenLinks have already asked a number of questions about this. As we become increasingly dependent on ICT, the consequences of the activities of hackers, but also of state actors, for example, may be increasing. Shutting down the electricity supply can have drastic consequences. The question to the Minister, which corresponds to the questions of the SP and GroenLinks, is how we ensure that the security of our electricity supply, for example, keeps pace with digitalisation. Mr. Chairman. The report also highlights legal and ethical dilemmas. Let us indeed take Mr Jetten's self-driving car. A self-driving car now exists. It has to weigh up when he's about to hit someone: who am I going to protect, those who are in the car or those who I hit? That's something that's also written in the car's software. An ethical assessment is made, because where do you make the most damage? So it can also be self-learning software that makes a mistake resulting in damage. How does the government prepare for such dilemmas, i.e. the dilemmas of the self-driving car, but also the dilemma of self-learning software that makes a mistake? Actually, the Planning Bureau for the Environment comes to the same conclusion as the report of the Rathenau Institute entitled Upgrading. The point is that we also apply the public values of security, privacy, accessibility, availability and viability of amenities in the digital environment. So we do not need to create new values, but above all we need to make the old values fit for the digital age. This can be done, for example, by making technology independent of our current public values, but also, for example, by making legislation independent of technology. Can the Minister give an update on the progress made in this area? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you. Then there is the last speaker from the Chamber, Mr Bosman from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u18	Mr. Chairman. It is wonderful to watch the news from your bed on the smartphone, then take a hot shower and then take the train to work, everyday things that are not possible without a reliable energy system. The digitalisation of the energy sector brings us new risks as well as many benefits. Cyber attacks on our energy system can have a major impact on society. Network operators and energy suppliers must act together to prevent our system from being successfully attacked. What opportunities do companies have for this? To what extent does the National Cyber Security Centre have a role to play in assessing the resilience of these systems? How can the sector work together with the government to ensure a reliable energy supply? A reliable, affordable and clean energy supply is easier said than done. This minister, together with the energy sector, has taken a step towards the future, a transition in which, in addition to the sustainability of energy, reliability and affordability have also been taken into account. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u19	Thank you. That was the term of the Chamber. The Minister is able to answer immediately. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mr. Chairman. In fact, all spokesmen were right to say that digitalisation has created great opportunities for us as a society. I am going to go into that in a little more detail, as well as the things that are related to it. Some spokesmen also said that there are major risks to our energy supply, for example. Mrs Bruins Slot also said that we can also deal with other countries that can pose threats to us by doing something about the digitisation we have carried out in our country. What Mrs Bruins Slot says is absolutely true. I can imagine that if a major conflict arises today, a country such as this will have the opportunity to shut down traffic control in another country, to shut down energy supply or to confuse traffic. There are all kinds of things in a country that are digitized. If you mess that up, you're gonna cause chaos in a country like this. I can very well imagine that this could be the starting point for a conflict. Also in the relationship between states it is very relevant to realize the risks you are running. Other spokesmen also said that hackers can penetrate systems and damage them there. It's all possible. Last year there were a lot of disruptions in the energy sector, a few tens of thousands. In total, some 20,000 failures occurred in one way or another, of which over 19,000 led to a small or sometimes larger-scale disruption of energy supply. We can congratulate each other at the moment that none of these interruptions have been caused by a problem with digitisation. The problem does not yet arise, but that does not mean that it is not going to happen and that we should not take it very seriously. We take it very seriously as a government. The networks with which you have to bring the energy, gas and electricity to the customers are crucial. In 2015, we held the managers of those networks responsible in the Electricity Act. Under Article 16 of the Electricity Act, a network operator has the task of protecting those networks from possible external influences in the management of the networks. In the explanatory statement, we said that cyber attacks included among other things. That is the first legal provision. That's not all we've done. The Data Processing and Reporting Act cybersecurity entered into force a few days ago, on October 1st. That law includes a duty of care in the event of incidents involving data processing or the protection of digital facilities, in other words, a problem with cyber security. You have to ensure that this does not occur or as little as possible and that if it does occur, there can be an immediate adequate response. In addition, a notification obligation has been laid down. That is the second legal provision we have reached. Then there's the third legal provision. Mr Jetten said that we should not wait for Europe. We don't. I have already indicated that we have brought into force, both in 2015 and 2017, laws that are very relevant to the subject we are discussing. In addition, there is a European directive, the so-called NIS Directive on network and information security. We will implement it in a law early next year. In this way, we have put the matter on a wide scale and put it even more in order in legislation. It's a very broad subject. I have just spoken about energy networks and Mr Jetten spoke about self-driving cars, also an example of digitalisation. He said there are developments there, too. That's absolutely true. We are also at absolute risk with this, and we must realise this very well. Mrs Bruins Slot said that decisions must be made at some point. Such a self-driving car makes those decisions, but it is inserted through the software. As a government, you must be aware of this and you must also want to be involved in it for ethical reasons. I will come back to that later. There are also very practical things on the agenda. At some point, for example, there is a blind man crossing with a red stick. The difference between someone who just crosses and someone who crosses with red stick, you see as a driver and then you know what to do. But can also a self-driving car that, then, is the question. At some point something is done wrong. Now if a driver does something wrong on the road, you can give them a ticket. But what if something's done wrong by a self-driving car like that? Then who's responsible? The one who created the software, the one who sold that car or the one who drives that car? There are all kinds of issues on the agenda. It is not the case, as Mr Jetten said, that we are blindly following such a development as that self-driving car. We recognise that this is a development that is taking place and that it can have great benefits. This can result in us getting much more capacity on our infrastructure, on our roads, so we have fewer traffic jams and people can get to their destination faster. So it is something that we are certainly in favour of. But we are very aware of the problems that arise in this regard. I and M have been committed to a development that means that we learn by doing it, learning by doing. This means that we offer manufacturers opportunities to gain experience in practice as well, and that is not so easy. All kinds of conditions must be attached to this, of course, because it will not put traffic at risk. But we do need to gain experience in practice, so we are talking about this with business. We are looking at whether the legislation is adequate or whether it needs to be adapted. We are discussing with industry the risks that can arise. We'll have that investigated, too. For example, Delft University of Technology is currently conducting scientific research into what is then called "meaningful human control." That means looking at how you can make sure that you can make what a machine can do and what a person can do go well together and strengthen each other. The Netherlands is very active in this. We also want to play a leading role in this. This is something that is international, so we are also very active in the international context to move forward with this. But running behind something blind is the last thing we could account for and what I, as a ruler, could justify to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I have just spoken about what I am particularly concerned about, namely energy supply. Firstly, we have the network operators who have a duty of care. That duty of care is not currently imposed on energy-producing and energy-distributing companies, but I can imagine that there are also risks in the context of increasing digitalisation that require an adequate response. This means that, together with the sectors, we are looking at the development and what is going on in terms of digitisation, what the potential risks are and what we can do together to deal with those risks. Then it may well be that a care obligation such as we have for the system operators also applies to other parts of the business that provide our energy supply at any time. But that will always happen in consultation with them, because they are, of course, the most affected. They also have the most sense of it and have an interest in ensuring that it is all properly regulated. Mr. Chairman. Let me address the various points raised by the spokesmen and start with Mr Van der Lee. He talked about the report of the Planning Bureau for the Environment. He expressed his appreciation for that. Others have done the same. I think that's right. It is very good that the Planning Office for the Environment picks up a topic like this. The handles they have come up with are also interesting, but we have to face them, which is inevitable, that they are still very abstract at the moment. A handle is to recognise that digitisation creates new dilemmas. Yeah, we recognize that. Another is accepting that there is an inevitable tension between the infrastructures and the fast virtual worlds. Yeah, that's right. Think about new rules. Yes, we have and will continue to do so. So these are interesting handles, I have mentioned a few examples, but it is mainly about being aware of what is going on, that we are not reacting on an ad hoc basis but in a structured way, and that we are doing so in such a way that we can achieve the maximum results. I've already talked about the energy domain. I have already made a comment about the system operators, the energy producers and the energy distributors. In this context, it is also interesting that we are already doing far-reaching digitisation with the smart meter. That smart meter is placed everywhere. This means that there are other pricing options. Now you only have to pay what is delivered, but later you can organize it in such a way that, depending on the offer, there are different prices per quarter of an hour. You can then adjust your behavior of gas and electricity consumption. That means you're getting a separate market for that. Those are interesting possibilities. At the same time, therefore, the question raised by Mrs Bruins Slot arises. That is: how do you deal with the people who are less comfortable with it? How do you prevent a division in society through this development? I think that's an important task for the government. Digitisation often leads to better and more accessible access to services and services that are important for everyone. It is necessary that people take into account that the world is changing. That's right. No one can get past that. This means that you will also have to adapt yourself, but the government will have to keep an eye on whether everyone can, or whether there are vulnerable people who need government protection. An important starting point for the government is that digitalisation should not prevent anyone from accessing necessary facilities. This means that there must be a non-digital alternative available or that the digital device is designed to be truly accessible to everyone, regardless of age or level of education. We are already applying this very concretely at the moment. I mentioned the example of the smart meter. We are now also looking with the business community at how to present the purchase overviews, the price information from the smart meter, to the customers of the products in such a way that all groups can get away with it. This is a challenge that we can already practice with in this respect. Mr Van der Lee spoke about the example of electricity and gas consumption and the parties involved. I mentioned the legislation, but the whole culture surrounding it is also of the utmost importance. How do you handle it? How do you work together? I think it is very good that we are going to hold a meeting this year, where, as a government with the sector and the regulators in the sector, we are going to examine the whole digitisation of electricity supply with each other. What's going on in there? What are we doing at the moment, what are we doing and what are we doing? Is that enough? Have we forgotten things? If we have forgotten something, what is that and what are we to do about it? I intend to convene that meeting and share with the Chamber the information that comes from it and the follow-up actions that we agree with each other. I want to do that before the end of the year. Then I also intend to see whether we can apply the system we use with the electricity sector to other sectors as well. That's the point. It is a development that has been deployed and will continue. You have to adapt to that as a society. We can do that this way. Mr Van der Lee also asked about safeguarding public interests in the digitisation of infrastructure. I have just responded to one aspect of this in response to Mrs Bruins Slot. The public interests referred to by Mr Van der Lee are interests such as accessibility, as I have just dealt with, security of supply, privacy and democratic control of what we as a government offer and what we think of them. These are public interests and they must also be protected. Privacy is governed by the Personal Data Protection Act. As far as energy is concerned, I have indicated what is going on with the system operators. I have indicated that we are looking for comparable arrangements for the other parts of the energy supply. I can tell you that this is not a doer of death, but something that we take very seriously that the government, the Ministry of Economic Affairs in particular, but also the Ministry of Security and Justice, the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Ministry of I and M, remain in constant contact with all relevant sectors to see with each other what the developments and possibilities are, what we think of the various aspects that are associated with it and how we can deal with them together in a proper way. Mr Hijink also spoke about risks in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr Van der Lee has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u22	I would like to thank the govern ment for the comprehensive answer. He has not gone into one aspect, and that aspect is of particular interest to me today. He described that various parties, especially in the energy sector, should take their responsibility for reducing the vulnerability of digitalisation. That's what you see in all the networks. The development of digitalisation as infrastructure makes everyone responsible. But who is ultimately responsible? This problem also arises at the level of the cabinet itself. Who is ultimately responsible at the moment? In this context, I think that the idea of setting up a special sub-committee is a good answer, because this issue is in all areas. You can't appoint a single ruler as the ultimate manager. But there is a collective responsibility and it must be well protected. Would the Minister, as perhaps the most experienced executive who is still active, still want to share his thoughts with us on this particular point of the Under Councils?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u23	I'd rather not. I don't think that would be good. I am, as my colleague from VWS calls it, "deep missionary." The newspapers say that the next cabinet could take office in the week of 23 October. These are my last weeks as Minister. If there's a new cabinet, that new cabinet is going to determine how it works. It will then be determined at what frequency and when meetings will take place, what is the relationship between the Under Councils and the Council of Ministers, how many Under Councils there are and who participates in them. I can very well imagine that the new cabinet decides to do what Mr Van der Lee advocates; I believe that Mr Jetten has done the same. I can well imagine that, but I would find it very inappropriate if I were to interfere as an almost outgoing ruler. I've had the pleasure of interfering with everything for a long time, but it's gonna be somebody else's turn. I believe that the opinion of the Chamber, and also Mr Van der Lee's view, will be taken into account in the decision-making process, because his suggestion is not unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u24	I understand, of course, that the Minister does not want to respond to this particular proposal because of his missionary status. But may I rephrase the question? Given all the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead, is there any reason to consider whether the management of opportunities and risks in this area should be dealt with in a different and perhaps a better way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u25	I think digitisation is a very important development that is going on, with great consequences, with many opportunities and also with risks. I think there are more than one ruler involved in this. I could well imagine a coordination solution, as suggested by Mr Van der Lee. Mr Hijink has made a number of comments which I would like to comment on. What does the government do against the risks that it entails that more and more devices are connected to the Internet? What activities does it undertake? Firstly, the connection of all kinds of devices to the Internet has enormous potential. I've been to a company in the Achterhoek, where a customer passes an order to that company via the Internet. There's no other person involved. It goes through the computer. The company that receives that order makes certain metal products exactly according to the customer's specification. It is then arranged that these products come in a truck, which brings them to the customer. The only people involved are the ones who put the product in the truck from the factory and the driver who brings it to the customer. Everything else is automated. This is one of the developments of the Internet of Things. As a government, we are in the process of strongly stimulating this. We have set up field labs together with the Dutch employers in the metal sector. These are physical environments, in which different companies can work together with knowledge institutions on internet applications, on connection of devices to the Internet, and on exploiting their potential. There is a lot of loosening, which also addresses vulnerabilities. The cabinet must face this, together with the business community. We now intend to develop, together with that industry, a roadmap that is jargon for a directional action plan for that application of the Internet or things. If we have that, we can work with industry to see how we can secure digital security for both hardware and software. We're planning to come up with a road map like this this this year. Previously, a motion by Mr Hijink, together with Mr Verhoeven, asked the cabinet to examine the measures needed to protect consumers from poorly secured equipment. This is one of the ways in which we also implement that motion. I intend to get that map to the Chamber by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u26	In my opinion, there is no doubt about the opportunities offered by this type of equipment. I think we can all agree on that. The problem is this. I mentioned the example of the solar panels. Thanks to the work of a smart hacker and scientist, it has been revealed how easy it is to shut down thousands of PM systems simultaneously, with the possibility of massive power outage. These kinds of problems can of course be avoided if we test more often and more effectively how well that equipment works. We don't need laws for that, we don't need road maps for that. That can start the government now, together with the sector, with business, with experts, with hackers. They can work together to see how good the equipment used in businesses and consumers is. Just go test it. Put people in a booth together and see which device we enter and which device we don't use. Why wouldn't we? Why shouldn't we blacklist devices that are demonstrably bad, so that consumers and businesses also know: hands off, you don't want this stuff in the house?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u27	I think Mr Hijink's suggestions are valuable, but his remark that we do not need that road map, because we can get rid of those hackers, is not correct. No, I don't know if that's what he means. I think we should do all these things. It is necessary to face up to all the risks and what you can do on both sides to reduce those risks, to take them away or to ensure that, if they do manifest themselves, you respond adequately to them. I think that's necessary. I think it is also necessary to do what Mr Hijink says through ethical hacking, as we call it. We are. Our National Cyber Security Center does that. The results are significant, but I think we should all do it together. You mentioned the example of the solar panels that exist among the people. Problems may also arise with their converters. Because of the contacts we have, because of the discussions we have with each other, we also face this at some point. It was specifically about the converters of one manufacturer. A solution has now been found for this. That's how we deal with it every time. The opportunities are wide, but the problems are also widespread. We need to respond to these problems in different ways. You can test. You can also put people on it to whom you say: "Other people hack. If you're going to hack for us, see what the vulnerability is, so we can do something about it." I also think that this is a real opportunity to help respond adequately to problems that arise or may arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u28	To take away a misunderstanding: I do not propose not to come up with road maps and legal adjustments that are really necessary. Of course, we all have to do that; one does not exclude the other. The point with the solar panels is, if you can believe the scientist himself, that the problem is not solved at all. In fact, he's investigated one specific brand. To be honest, I hold my heart for what is going on with the other suppliers of this kind of inverter. And all we're talking about is inverters. Then we're not talking about the botnets that are built with internet-connected kettles, lighting systems, vacuum cleaners and I don't know what. There is so much connection to poorly secured equipment that I do not think we should wait for additional legislation to make manufacturers responsible for the security of this type of equipment. Then I think it might be helpful for consumers to have a kind of blacklist of devices that the government has established in cooperation with experts and hackers that they are as leaky as a basket. Then she can say: we cannot ban them by law yet, but at least we make it public that they are not good devices and that you should not use them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u29	But who is waiting for legislation? Neither do we nor you, because on October 1st of this year, four days ago, we brought into force the Data Processing and Reporting Act cybersecurity. We are also working hard to transform the European Directive on Network and Information Security into an implementing law. So that's what we're doing. But legislation is one thing. Culture is another thing. The development around the internet of things is something else. There are all kinds of devices that are connected to the Internet, by companies but also by individuals, which creates risks. One example of this is those solar panels. We talked about the self-driving cars. So I know that all kinds of things can go wrong on a very wide field. But I also know that this is a development that is taking place in the Netherlands and throughout the world. It's going on. We can benefit greatly from this development. We're gonna have to pull that out, too. Then we need to identify, identify and respond adequately to the risks. I'm very willing to do that. We ourselves, as a government, are very willing to do so, not only with legislation, but also with the Cyber Security Centre that we have established. This is what we offer industry-by-sector assistance by going through with them where their problems and risks lie and by working with them to find solutions. Good cooperation is therefore organised between all those involved in order to manage the risks. Mr Hijink also spoke about the Dragonfly situation we have experienced. This has caused major problems in a number of countries. There are no reports that Dutch companies have been affected by this wave of breaches of digital systems that have occurred. But I'm not making any illusions about that. Both individual hackers and organized groups of hackers are doing it for fun, people doing it because they want to make criminal money with it, and even states, as Mrs Bruins Slot said, are dealing with it. That of those states is very real. There are states that deal with this kind of thing on a large scale. This is all happening and we are discussing this evening how we can protect ourselves from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u30	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u31	Yes, very briefly. Okay, there's a lot going on; let's agree on that. Is the Minister then open to the proposal that we would like to make today that, in addition to everything that is happening, we should at least see if we can come up with some sort of blacklist? As far as I'm concerned, it's a different name. I would like us to start actively testing existing and new equipment, because that is actually happening too little at the moment. We just don't know if what's in people's homes is safe. We don't need rules and laws for that. Is the Minister open to such an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u32	I think it's important to have insight and to gain insight as far as it's not there. It's also important to test where you're in doubt. It is also important to agree with suppliers on the requirements that products have to meet. Suppliers also bear their own responsibility for the products they supply. I therefore believe that what Mr Hijink is putting forward is quite right. It must also contribute to the activities that we will have to undertake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u33	The Minister mentioned a few times that it is very important to implement the Network and Information Security Directive. It also brings with it a number of obligations for certain companies and sectors to arm themselves against hackers and the like. In April of this year we heard from the cabinet that this law would come in autumn 2017. In the meantime, the Minister already speaks of spring 2018. What causes the delay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u34	I'm not ready to do that. I'll inform the Chamber about that. I will look at what commitment we have made to the Chamber and what is the reason for the delay that Mrs Bruins Slot assumes. I have no reason to believe she doesn't know what she's talking about. I will also tell you what the new schedule is and how we think we can make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u35	By the way, it was a commitment to the Upper House, which was made in April 2017. Maybe that'll make the search a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u36	Thank you. I'll check it out. Then I have come to the issues raised by Mrs Bruins Slot. She wonders how, as a government, we are constantly informed about the developments that are taking place. It is a very important task for us to know what is happening and to keep track of the relevant legislation and regulations. Is it enough or does it need that supplement? I've already told you how we're doing that right now. Mrs Bruins Slot herself has already indicated what is the follow-up to the implementation law of the European directive. Those developments are moving fast. There are also government components that have the task of following that. One is the ACM and another is the Telecom Agency. They have supervisory powers. This means that they are also the ones who are talking to business. I just talked about the National Cyber Security Center. That is once again divided into so-called ISACs. These are public-private partnerships by sector. As I have just explained, it looks together with industry at what is going on and what needs to be done. I have just told one of the other spokesmen that I will organise a conference with the sector and with the regulators on specific electricity supply, from which I will draw up actions. I will see how I can apply this model to other sectors, in addition to what I have just said. The ethical issues have quite rightly been raised by Mrs Bruins Slot. They're playing a lot. What Mr Jetten said about the algorithms is in line with that. I don't have what's going on in the government right now when it comes to algorithms. There are general responsibilities for companies to comply with. As far as algorithms are concerned, there is not specifically something we should include separate legal provisions for in my opinion. It's something you can arrange more generally. I agree with Mr Jetten that algorithms are increasingly being used and are also very useful, but that they also pose risks because they involve ethical issues. So it seems useful to me to see what's going on there and what we need to do with it. I do not yet know who should take the initiative and how we should shape it. But the subject has been dealt with by Mr Jetten and I shall give it the attention that Mr Jetten asks. I intend to inform the Chamber on this matter before the Economic Affairs budget is discussed, so that Mr Jetten could, if he wishes, discuss it further in the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u37	Many thanks for the Minister's commitment. I may have a short supplement. I can imagine that it is interesting to do this together, for example, with the VNG, precisely because many municipalities are struggling with the question of how to use algorithms in a good way. If Rich and local authorities can strengthen each other in that, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u38	I would also like to take this suggestion with me, Mr President. Mr Bosman spoke about infrastructure, particularly energy infrastructure. I know that energy is a big hobby of his. I have had a number of opportunities to discuss this with him in other contexts. I just said something about the NCSC, the National Cyber Security Center. Law stipulates that the National Cyber Security Centre acts as a computer emergency response team. This means that they must once again make available their skills in the form of a centre of expertise and advice on cyber security developments to businesses and others using digital services. I believe that it is not only in terms of energy, but in terms of a broad sense that we are doing so. Mr President, I have looked into Mr Jetten's points. He talked about cars, which I went into, and algorithms. He talked about the opportunities and challenges. I think this has happened and I thank you for the opportunity to respond to what the spokesmen have said in the first term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u39	Thank you. One more question from Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive explanation of almost all of my points. I had another specific question. Does the Minister agree with me that it would be interesting to organise bug challenges in the government, in which we invite hackers to check out the systems of the government? In this way, we can look preventively at where we can strengthen things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u41	I've just said all the necessary things about that. I have said that ethical hacking is also taking place at the National Cyber Security Centre. I will see to what extent that corresponds to the suggestion made by Mr Jetten and to what extent a supplement is still useful there. That is what I come back to in the part I have just spoken about, which will go to the Chamber before the budget. Maybe I should immediately point out to Mrs Bruins Slot that I am also very much helped by my staff who tell me about the implementation of the NIB Directive that the bill is ready. It's been in consultation. It will be brought to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. I think it is best to do so in the new Council of Ministers, but I will look at it again. Depending on the pace of treatment in the Second and First Chambers, I think it is possible that we can bring the law into force before the summer of 2018. I think that is in line with the timetable that Mrs Bruins Slot just mentioned, so that we have not received any further homework from her on that point. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u42	Very well, another reassurance for us as a room. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. We are going to listen to Mr Van der Lee of the GroenLinks Group. He has, like everyone else, one minute's speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Many thanks also to the executive for the comprehensive answer. I fully respect his deep devotional position. That is why I would like to put a motion to the House to give an opinion on something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u44	That's the case with every motion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u45	The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that digitalisation offers huge opportunities for sustainable growth, but makes our vital infrastructure and key public values increasingly vulnerable;]] [[Considering that this poses important challenges in virtually all social areas in which public authorities operate;]] [[points out that the creation of a digital sub-committee is desirable for the full use of digital opportunities as well as the safeguarding of public values and vital interests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-492]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u46	I wonder why Mr Van der Lee chooses not to go in line with the opinion of the Elias Commission for one minister responsible for ICT policy. Why would he choose to weaken that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u47	Because I think it's very complicated to make one person ultimately responsible for digitisation in all its consequences. Digitisation affects all areas in which the government is active and all social sectors. It will be the infrastructure behind the infrastructures. There, a collective responsibility will undoubtedly play a role. The task probably lies mainly in excellent coordination, good mutual consultation and adequate management, including issues that one person will not always know about immediately. That will provide a much better guarantee than in the case of one person being made responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u48	But it is only then that it is obvious that one ruler bears the ultimate responsibility for that? One doesn't have to rule out the other, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u49	It seems to me to be a good thing that this sub-committee has one chairman, but I honestly do not know which member of the board that should be. You can come up with an argument on the basis of which it should be the Minister of Economic Affairs, or I and M, or Home Affairs, or perhaps Defense, given the risks involved in cybersecurity. I think that is a very complicated issue. That is why I do not submit a specific request for a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thank you. I call Mr Hijink of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u51	Mr. Chairman. I just want to file one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that vulnerabilities in devices connected to the Internet can cause major damage to individuals, businesses and society;]] [[Whereas the Court has previously requested the Government to examine additional measures to improve the security of Internet of Things (IoT) equipment;]] [[Calls on the Government, in cooperation with industry, cybersecurity experts and hackers, to carry out hacking tests on IoT equipment and to publish a list of unsafe devices,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-493]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u52	I call Mr Jetten from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer and the way in which he has considered the various dilemmas. Thank you also for the commitment to see to what extent we now use algorithms within the government and what dilemmas might arise. Finally, I would like to return to a point on which the Minister addressed himself in detail in his reply, namely self-driving cars. I fully agree with him that the Netherlands is a leading country in this area. We try to discover all the challenges of these moving cars with open sights, for example around Eindhoven and Helmond. I believe that this is also the attitude we need to take on all these issues: looking at the opportunities of digitalisation, but always critical, and ensuring that we give this a place in our society in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u54	I note that Mrs Bruins Slot has waived her speaking time. The same applies to Mr Bosman. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I understand that the Minister can already reply and comment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u55	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mr Van der Lee's 492 stated that the creation of a digital sub-committee would be desirable for "both the full use of digital opportunities and the safeguarding of public values and vital interests." I do not think it is appropriate for me, as a outgoing minister, to say something about this when that organisational point has to be filled in by the next cabinet in the Council of Ministers. I don't want to lose that freedom of the next Council of Ministers. I would like to point out to Mr Van der Lee that I agree with him on the need for coordination if there is to be such a sub-committee. In the current structure, one minister cannot be the chairman of such a sub-committee, because in the current structure, the prime minister presides over all the sub-committees. It is conceivable that one of the other ministers, at the request of the Prime Minister, should play a certain coordinating role. In fact, I would prefer the Chamber to make such a statement towards the new cabinet. I think that's more appropriate. On the other hand, I realise that it is quite possible for the cabinet to take decisions on this matter before the Chamber is well aware of that. With that consideration, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. I would like to stress once again that I do not intend to get in the way of my successors and the next cabinet on this point, but I leave it to the Chamber to decide whether or not to do so. In the motion in part No. 493 asks Mr Hijink to have hacking tests carried out in collaboration with industry and to publish a list of unsafe devices. I find testing by hackers of systems, software and hardware, useful. That's what's happening. I do not think that Mr Hijink's attention is wrong. I do think that publishing a list of unsafe devices is a lot of hooks and eyes. You can't just do that. There are different degrees in "safe" and "unsafe." If you declare something unsafe, it could be that you switch to similar things that have not yet been tested and are still unsafe. So there are a lot of things attached to that. That's why I think this is too early. If the motion would only be a request to the government to allow hacking tests to be part of our policy in conjunction with industry, then I have no objection to that. Then I'd leave the judgment to the Chamber. If it keeps saying it has to be a list of unsafe devices, I advise against this motion. That is the text before us at the moment, so the motion in part No. 493 I advise against. I agree with what Mr Jetten said. For the rest, I would like to thank the Chamber for its support. A lot will have to be done at this point. The odds we have, we're gonna have to take. The challenges and problems that exist will have to be addressed. There is a lot of work to be done for this, but if we do this right, it can really help the cooperation a little further. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-11.u56	Thank you to this deeply outgoing minister for his presence here today. We shall be voting on both motions next Tuesday.
