ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u1	Three speakers have come forward for tonight. I will be the first to give the floor to Mrs Koşer Kaya on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. The mandatory response to advisory lectures? Get rid of it. Journalists ask for information? Black paint. Voters want government information? Especially not actively providing. Then it is logical that the next attempt should be made: the abolition of the Council for Financial Relations. Counterpower finds this government very annoying, as it turns out time and time again. Reflection is fine, but only if the same is attached and it doesn't take too much time. But the Council for Public Administration and the Financial Relations Council do not exist only for the government. These councils are also a consultative college for Parliament. My controlling task, and that of my colleagues, will be touched when one of them is lifted. We must decide on large sums of money, on billions of budgets and on how these resources are distributed. It concerns recent decentralisations in the social domain or the establishment of the Municipal and Provincial Funds. Topics on which advice from these boards for the public administration and for financial relations is very useful and necessary, over and over and over again. Last week, for example, the Council issued an opinion on financial relations on how to spend more effectively the 60 billion per year spent by municipalities. Doesn't the Minister also consider it extremely important and valuable that we have that advice? The removal of assistance to monitor financial relations would be a blow to the power of parliament, because in fact housing the Public Administration Council would be tantamount to devaluating this task. Will advice on financial relations be given as much attention as it is now? Are there sufficient persons willing to sit? How is maintaining knowledge guaranteed? Of course you can work with percentages or increase the number of members of the Rob, but what do you actually solve? In fact, you just return to the current situation, because even now Rob and Rfv work intensively together. They're in the building together. They share a staff. They share a website. They provide advice together, for example on decentralisation. How much more coherence do you want? These councils are now working together where this brings added value, where public administration and financial relations touch each other and where mutual reinforcement is possible. But they go their own way when it's convenient. Could it be even more strategic? That system also has other advantages. Experts who know everything about financial relations do not need to become members of the Public Administration Board. They don't have to advise on topics they don't know about. The other way around, that's the same thing. So I do not see the point and the need for this bill. The way I see it now, the disadvantages seem far beyond the benefits. Maybe I'm wrong. It's possible. But then the Minister still has to work hard on the answer. What are the real advantages of financial relations that cannot be achieved without the abolition of the Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is in favour of merging supervisory and advisory functions, as laid down in the government agreement of this cabinet. We are particularly in favour of maintaining expertise. Mrs Koşer Kaya spoke about maintaining the Council's expertise in financial relations, for example. Today we are discussing such a merger, namely that of the Public Administration Council and the Financial Relations Council. The merger should have started on 1 January of this year, but due to delays, the Minister is now aiming for 1 July 2017. In fact, the Minister was unable to deal with this delay; the debate on it has been pushed forward a few times. 1 July 2017 also seems a useful date as a number of appointments expire on that date and therefore a natural transition moment arises. In accordance with the explanatory memorandum, the merging of these advisory bodies is aimed at strengthening the advisory function on financial relations. The VVD agrees with that too. The role of the current Financial Relations Council is to advise on legislation on financial relations, in particular between the Empire, municipalities and provinces, and on the implementation of that legislation. In times of decentralisation, as today, this advisory function is of great importance. Regular evaluations have also shown that there is a need for comprehensive advice on financial and administrative relations. It also highlighted the need to broaden the knowledge base in the field of financial relations. All this is mentioned in the introduction of the explanatory memorandum, but later on in the same explanatory statement it concerns the composition of this merged council. Then we see a different picture: the Rob-members remain seated, the Rfv is lifted and gradually the deleted financial knowledge is partly filled in with new appointments. This is a different story than strengthening the financial advisory function. The VVD aims to ensure continuity and the strengthening of financial expertise, in line with the approach of the Minister himself in the first part of the explanatory statement. Now that the merger of both advisory councils is no longer possible on 1 January of this year and many mandates expire in the short term, there is a great opportunity to ensure the strengthening of financial knowledge from the outset in this new organisation. I tabled an amendment to this effect yesterday, which lays down in the law what the Minister indicated in the introduction of the explanatory memorandum. In view of the rest of the text of the explanatory memorandum, clarity in the law is crucial according to the VVD. I will conclude with another question to the Minister. While Rob and Rfv are on the eve of a merger, the vacancy is open to the position of chairman of the Rob; that is to say, of that new organisation. What's the status of filling that vacancy? Of course, I understand that the Minister cannot mention the names of the people who are in the race. My question is more procedural: are there any candidates and how far is the procedure at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u4	The amendment amends the content of the bill. In fact, this does not change very much compared to the current situation. Then why this whole operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u5	The VVD has always been in favour of reducing the number of advisory councils, but above all the retention of advisory councils that have technical expertise, such as the Rfv. Now these councils are merged. That's the second best option. In 2008 we tabled a motion to ensure that financial expertise was maintained and other advisory councils were rejected. That motion didn't make it. Now we say: if the financial component is to be merged and strengthened, you must also ensure that there is sufficient financial expertise. That law may cease to exist, but not the Rfv and the Rob; they are merged. It's not like one's gonna stop. If you then merge them together and if you want to strengthen the financial expertise, you must also ensure that they are reflected, both in the name and in the composition of that new organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u6	I hope that reducing advisory colleges is not an end in itself for the VVD. The VVD clearly states here that financial expertise is very important. It is tabling this amendment in order to ensure that this financial expertise will be fairly strong in the near future. The employees of both councils are already working together. In addition, both councils are in the same building and have the same website. This amendment still preserves the RFV, so my question is: why this whole exercise? Why can't we just keep it the way it is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u7	There is indeed a major change. First of all, you reduce the number of members to about half. These two organisations operated completely independently of each other, but at the same time had a joint secretariat and a joint support. However, they were two different organisations. The evaluations have shown that it is very important to bring administrative advice much more into line with financial advice. Those two need to be merged much more. If that had happened one-on-one in cooperation, this might not have been necessary. But this is also about reducing advisory tasks and organisations. As far as we are concerned, the number of general advisory councils can be greatly reduced, but we would very much like to retain the expertise, in this case of the RFV. We want to make sure that a small organisation has enough expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u8	I find it extremely regrettable that behind this lies the idea that less advice should be given, while the opinions of the RFG are extremely important for our monitoring task. I can only conclude that this amendment is a tissue for bleeding; no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u9	There should be no fewer opinions, but fewer advisory councils, especially fewer general advisory councils. It is very important for us that financial expertise is guaranteed so that you can retain the opinions that are needed and which Mrs Koşer Kaya stressed in her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Oosenbrug, who speaks on behalf of the Labour Party. For the record, the abbreviations used, Rob and Rfv, represent the Council for Public Administration and the Council for Financial Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u11	I already wrote them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u12	Very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. The Financial Relations Council was set up twenty years ago to advise on legislation on financial relations between the Empire and the municipalities and provinces. Even then, there was austerity within the advisory bodies of the government. But because the government still felt that the area of financial relations was specific, there was a separate advisory body. The Financial Relations Council was next to the Public Administration Council. Since then, public administration has changed considerably, from scaling-up and regional cooperation to decentralisation. The three evaluations carried out by the Council on financial relations showed the growing need for stronger, more strategic and more comprehensive advice in the field of financial and administrative relations. This is a pretty technical law, so I get that the public gallery isn't entirely full. It was recommended that financial relations should be more closely linked to administrative relations. An opinion of ABDTOPConsult from 2013 showed that only if the advisory function on financial relations actually became part of the tasks of the Public Administration Board, more strategic commitment and greater coherence could be ensured in administrative and financial advice. The PvdA Group shares these conclusions. There are also practical considerations. The Financial Relations Council and the Public Administration Council already have a common secretariat and already share the advisory capacity. There are therefore hardly any human consequences for the financial situation in the Rob as a result of the Council's involvement. However, the number of members is kept at nine by the merger of the two councils. My group's concern is that the Council's task of examining and advising on financial relations between the Empire and local government will not be given sufficient attention. The discussion about a different establishment of the Municipal Fund and a separate tax area for municipalities will benefit from good advice. The colleague from D66 has already spoken about this. Last week, the Financial Relations Council had the opinion "First of all, politics, then technology. Game rules for future-proof financial relations'. It contains clear views on how the financial relations between the Empire and the municipalities are now organised. How is it ensured that the Public Administration Council pays sufficient attention to such issues? That is the only and most pressing question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u14	A clear question for the Minister, who apparently can answer directly. Of course, we, as Members, are very pleased about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal provides for the need for stronger, more strategic and more comprehensive advice in the field of financial and administrative relations. This stems from the context of other challenges, increased complexity, decentralisation in the social domain in particular, creating new packages of responsibilities, and changes in financial and administrative relations, including scaling-up, regional partnerships, cooperation with civil society and private organisations, etc. These developments are a substantive reason for this integration for the cabinet. Evaluations in 2004 and 2010 have also shown that more active and strategic opinions should be issued and that financial and administrative relations should be best considered in conjunction. ABDTOPConsult endorsed this in 2013 in an exploration, stating that only integration could lead to the desired strategic approach and coherence. That is the reason for the substance, and for the Cabinet to do so, but I would add that, in general terms, the Cabinet also seeks to reduce the advisory system, in the sense that there are no more bodies than sensible and necessary in terms of substance. This legislative proposal thus ensures that the Council's advisory function for financial relations is transferred to the Public Administration Council and that the first Council is thus abolished. The composition of the new Public Administration Council should be tailored in terms of knowledge and experience to that broad task, both in strategic, content and administrative terms and in terms of the democracy of the intergovernmental and, in particular, in terms of financial relations. I would like to express my appreciation for the careful and good cooperation with both Councils in the preparation of the legislative proposal. So I am also convinced that the new Public Administration Council will continue to provide us with good advice. On this occasion, I would like to thank both Councils for the good advice we have received in recent years. I've always found it very valuable. As in good faith, the Council for Public Administration, the Financial Relations Council, the UNG, the Interprovincial Consultation and the Union of Water Councils have been involved in the preparation of the present proposal. A few questions have been asked. Mrs Oosenbrug and Mrs De Caluwé I am now going to deal specifically with her Amendment No 1, which rightly asked how we can guarantee that the subject of these financial relations is also well invested in the new Public Administration Council. That's essential. That is why I have made sure that the Council is composed of a maximum of twelve people. That's quite a size. We also need to maintain that knowledge. For this reason, the Secretariat of the Public Administration Council and the Financial Relations Council will be extended for a few years by two staff members, research budget has been made available and a multiannual programme has been established to strengthen the knowledge base on local authorities and financial relations. The work programme is also important in this respect. I would like to say to the Chamber that we, as clients, will actively contribute to the balanced treatment of the various areas, in particular financial relations. Continuity is ensured by a gradual transition from the Council's mandate for financial relations to the new Rob, by the alignment of work programmes and by the presentation of draft opinions already before each other. Already, three members and financial experts of the Council for Financial Relations are part of the Rob, as a temporary member or acting member. Furthermore, the Council's recent consultative process on financial relations concerning the revised financial relations is already highly strategic. The freeing places indeed offer the opportunity to ensure that it is well anchored. If there were any impressions of this, I would like to point out to Mrs De Caluwé that there would be no change or that there would be no need for good financial expertise, I would like to stress that this is not the intention. So I pledge that I will see to it. It's a lot of searching, you know. There are easier people to find who can say something sensible about governance than people who can do it specifically about financial relationships. But that's all the more reason to look for them. Now that the two councils are merging, it seems to me that it is reasonable to ensure, without a ruler passing by, that there is a balance between the two expertises in the new council. I can also say that one of the selection criteria for the new President is that she or he has extensive experience with public administration and financial relations. This has already been explicitly brought out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u16	The Minister states that he also wants to retain the expertise within the new council. However, he has also made it quite clear, as he has just said, that the advisory function of the Council for Financial Relations will be transferred to the Public Administration Council. That's not "integration" but "transfer." The three experts who would come along are temporary experts. The mandates of those who work for the Financial Relations Council will expire on 1 July. If you really want to guarantee the expertise and if you want to ensure continuity, you should not transfer the advisory function but the expertise to the new organisation. If the Rfv Institution Act expires, that does not mean that the Rfv lapses. The two councils are merged and one of the institutional laws remains. However, that does not mean that the Rob continues to exist and that the Rfv just disappears. That's what I'm tasting in the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u17	I don't think I give rise to that flavor. I would like to make it quite clear, and I very much appreciate what Mrs De Caluwe says here: in setting up the new board, there must be a balance between expertise on all aspects of public administration, democracy, control and administrative relations and on the other hand expertise in the field of finance. We agree that there is room for this because there are a number of vacancies per the middle of this year. I must say that I will take that into account when it comes to its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u18	If there is balance, there is no strengthening of the financial advisory function. But the aim was precisely to strengthen the financial advisory function. If you want to strengthen that position, you should not go into a proportionate division: a little for the Public Administration Council and a little for the Financial Relations Council. Does the Minister not agree with me that he should strengthen the Council's expertise in financial relations in the new organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u19	You can't have your cake and eat it at the same time. I deliberately did not start it, because my first reason for integration is content, namely improving the quality and context of the objectives, but the VVD also wants to limit the number of advisory councils. Of course, you can't do both. You cannot say: we are joining the Public Administration Council and the Financial Relations Council, while fully preserving the role and scope of the Financial Relations Council. Then there's nothing left of the other council. I therefore say, once again, that there must be a balanced interpretation of the new Council in terms of expertise, including in terms of staff. I also see the scope to do so in the middle of this year, when we are going to fill a number of vacancies. This may lead me to take a moment to discuss Mrs De Caluwe's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u20	Before we do that, I shall give the floor to Mrs Koşer Kaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u21	The Minister just said it in a sentence: the merger is intended to strengthen the quality of the advisory function. Until recently, were the opinions inadequate in quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u22	I've been in politics for a while, so these kinds of questions... Oh, what can I say? These opinions are excellent; they are excellent. I really have some of those advices at my fingertips and I very much appreciate them. This is a bit of an instinct, because then you wouldn't be able to change anything. If you want to try to improve something, you can hear: was it not good? It was excellent. These proposals, which I do not shuffle out of my sleeve either, but which are based on assessments in 2004, 2010 and 2014 by ABDTOPConsult, give me reason to propose to the Chamber to improve the position by bringing together the content and the financial side in a single advisory council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u23	The point, however, is that they already work together, share a staff, share a building and have a website. Over time, therefore, a lot has changed. So that improvement has already been made. When the Minister says that the quality is excellent, I wonder why we are all standing here and bringing about a merger, one of the coalition members still says: that financial expertise must be preserved and considerable. Minister, why don't you stop this? Why do we not give these two cooperating institutions a good chance of meeting the new challenges together instead of reorganising them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u24	If I understand correctly, Mrs Koşer Kaya says: firstly, they are already merged and secondly, you should not merge them. I have just indicated that they are indeed working closely together and that now is the time, also based on a long process of advice, to make it really one board, with the finances and other aspects of public administration that you cannot separate. We have had a lot of discussions about decentralisation here. Of course, we are also talking about financial relations and whether or not there are limits within the funds and so on. So there are all kinds of good reasons for tying these two together in a single advisory council. I also refer to the explanatory statement, which apparently did not convince D66. This is the argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u25	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u26	An opinion on decentralisation was recently issued by these two organisations. So they already work excellently together and also bring out an excellent report. I have no choice but to conclude that this Minister is actually seeking a kind of merger whereby the financial element is taken out. Otherwise there would be no amendment from coalition colleague VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u27	That is perhaps a nice little bridge to discussing the amendment to item No. 6 of the VVD. This consists of two elements. On the one hand, it amends the name of the Board for Public Administration on the Board for Public Administration and Financial Relations. I am not so keen on that, but of course that council is also going to give advice on inter-administrative relations. It should be referred to as: 'Council for Public Administration, Financial Relations, Inter-Governmental Relations, Inter-municipal Cooperation, Democracy, referenda, Civil Participation and the Social Domain'. Then it will actually be the Council of Ministers for Relations. In my view, "public administration" is the broad concept, of which financial relations are an important part. However, democratic relations and intergovernmental relations are also part of this. What's in a name? I would therefore like to leave that aspect to the House. This does not apply to the second part, which stipulates that two thirds of its members must be experts in the field of financial relations. It's about 12 members. I have already said that this was a demand for the President. Out of the remaining eleven, you might be left with three more with expertise in the other areas. That's really not gonna be enough. Besides, it's not the systematic we know. Article 12 of the Framework Act provides that the members of an advisory college are to be appointed on the basis of the expertise in the field in which the advisory college is set up. The Minister responsible for the establishment of the Advisory College must ensure this in the selection of the members. It should also ensure a balanced distribution of expertise in such a college. The institutional laws are limited to the establishment, size and mandate of an advisory body. It does not happen that an institution law also imposes requirements on specific skills within it, let alone that of the eleven still to be forgiven, eight would depend on one expertise. I really wouldn't think that was wise. Then it becomes too one-sided. It's not necessary either. So I really and strongly advise against that part. Otherwise, the whole purpose of the proposal will not be sufficiently achieved. Once again, I would like to say to Mrs De Caluwé that when I fill the vacancies there is really room for a balanced distribution, where the aspect of financial relations really gets the full attention. I told you, we're not gonna lay a ruler by it. I understand very well that two lectures are merging, but that cannot lead to one area being dominant over another. With this I have answered the questions I have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u28	The amendment in part No. 6 of the member De Caluwe is therefore not recommended. Mrs De Caluwe had already understood that, but I would say that for the record and the Acts. I would like to thank the Minister for his first answer. Is there a need for a short second term? I note that this is the case and give the floor to Mrs Koşer Kaya, at least if she needs it. Or was she shaking no? I'm sorry, I wasn't paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u29	I only have one sentence to add. I have not heard any substantive reason why these two organisations...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u30	No, you're either using your term or not, because this is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u31	...should go hand in hand. Now I'm done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u32	Okay. I shall now give the floor to Mrs De Caluwe on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr. Chairman. I'm taking advantage of my term, because I want to say more sentences. The merging of both organisations is intended to strengthen the quality of the financial advisory function. That's what it says in the explanatory memorandum. The Minister said to the VVD in his first term that you cannot limit advisory councils on the one hand and strengthen them on the other. That rhymes. I agree with the Minister that choices should be made. And yes, the VVD would have preferred to keep the Council for financial relations at the expense of a council that advises much more generally. Now that this proposal is in place, it is crucial for the VVD to reduce the overall advisory function in the merger in favour of financial expertise. The explanatory memorandum and previous evaluations indicate: strengthen this financial expertise. We would therefore very much like to place the focus of expertise on finance, hence the amendment. I hereby announce that I will maintain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u34	I have one more question. The part of the general opinion, i.e. the Rob part, should be reduced, says my colleague from the VVD here. How? Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u35	I just counted. We have 17 general advisory councils in the Netherlands. Some have more expertise and others are more general. We think it is very important to maintain specialist knowledge and specialist advice. As far as the VVD is concerned, we do not need so many general advisory councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u36	I'm in a Kafka debate here. Mrs De Caluwe says that the general part, the Rob part, can be much less. Actually, she wouldn't even like that. For example, when it comes to decentralisation, you need not only the financial side, but also the other side. Otherwise, you don't have good, strategically qualitative advice. They are now being released by these two organisations. How is she gonna fill that out when she reduces that part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u37	Of course, the people with financial expertise are not entirely retarded when it comes to expertise in all kinds of other administrative areas. We have also read the evaluations and have also seen that the general advisory function has been asked to be more closely linked to the financial advisory function and to strengthen the financial advisory function. If that's what you want, you have to make choices. Then you go on one side less on the general advisory function and on the other you expand the financial advisory function. We have therefore said about the composition: two thirds of financial expertise and a third general expertise. These two can work together very well, in a smaller advisory board that can still give these opinions. As far as we are concerned, however, the focus must be on financial expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u38	It has to come to me a little bit. If we wanted only financial people, how unhappy would the world be? Then we would not have all kinds of different studies and we would only have an eye for the financial side of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u39	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u40	My question concerns the fact that the Council has a very specific expertise for public administration, as does the Council for Financial Relations. The nice thing is that a combination is now being made, but the minister pulls out one side and the VVD the other. It shouldn't get weirder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u41	That wasn't really a question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u42	I would like to give you a brief answer. We are not pulling out one side, but only reducing it very strongly, because we have a lot of other advisory councils in the Netherlands. The financial expertise is very important, but that does not mean that the other expertise is thrown away. It will only be reduced because we consider the financial expertise to be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u43	Thank you for your second-term contribution. I am looking at Mrs Oosenbrug: she does not need a second term. I'll look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u44	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to the amendment, because hopefully I have made the other points sufficient. I very much appreciate the opinions of both Advisory Councils. "The general advisory function" sounds as if it is not so much, but the large decentralisations have been preceded, for example, by a policy-making advice from the Rob, entitled Release in confidence. It was well-founded that the removal of tasks from the Empire to the municipalities means that financial links must also be cut or responsibilities must be invested elsewhere. This is not a general advisory function. No, it is just an example of an opinion that comes from thinking about public administration but has immediate financial consequences. So it's a nice example of a subject for which you want an advisory board that can do these two things. Slightly moving away saying that we would not need the general part, is really not the appreciation of the government of the opinions we have received from the Rob in recent years. So I would just like to confine myself to the amendment before us. We have had a long process of careful consultation and careful coordination. To include in the law that we have already required a chairman of the remaining eleven places eight to have a financial expertise, is contrary to the system that results from the law on advisory councils, from which I have just quoted. It also makes the crucial consultative function in the field of public administration in a broad, genuinely inadequate way. I hope, therefore, that I will be able to convince the House of the substance of the matter in order not to support this amendment. I would also like to ask that, should the amendment succeed, we wait for the full legislative proposal to be put to the vote. I therefore feel obliged to take the proposal back to the cabinet and consider it. Once again, I hope not, because I think that after this long process we need to move forward with the integration of these two councils. As Mrs De Caluwe rightly said, this has already been delayed by the increase. We are now trying to fill it out in the new way by the middle of this year. But I really don't think it's right if this de facto means cutting off the whole public administration board over the ankles, so I'm really telling you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-9.u45	This was a clear answer. We will take this into account when drawing up the voting list for next Tuesday. We shall vote on the amendments sooner anyway, but should the amendment be adopted, we shall take that into account. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input, the first and second term, and the Minister's answers, for which we are grateful.
