ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin today with the questions of Mrs Groothuizen of D66... Excuse me, it is Mr Groothuizen! There used to be Mrs Gesthuizen, now there is Mr Grothuizen. I'm gonna have to get used to the new names. Welcome, also to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. You have the floor, Mr Grothuizen, on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. There are no homosexuals in Chechnya, according to the President of this Russian Republic. However, it is now clear what happens to people who do show a different orientation. This weekend we received terrible reports of Chechen lhbti's being kidnapped and tortured. People would be locked up in barracks and even a number of people would have been killed. The reports speak of gross and large-scale violence on an unprecedented scale, violence that seems to be directed very specifically against a specific group of people. There seems to be some sort of raid. As far as I am concerned, this shocking violence is completely unacceptable. I therefore have a number of questions for the Minister. Firstly, can she confirm these messages and indicate how many people are involved? Secondly, does the Minister know how many Libyans were killed in Chechnya because of their orientation? Thirdly, is the Minister prepared to contact her Russian colleague to condemn these practices on behalf of the Netherlands? Fourthly, can the Minister explain what measures it is prepared to take to improve the safety of these people in Chechnya? Fifthly, is the Netherlands prepared to raise this issue at EU level and ask the High Representative to condemn these human rights violations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Grothuizen for his questions. I read that he wants to work for a safe and just Netherlands, but I am glad that he does not stop there. These shocking messages call for our attention but also for our action. Before it was in the news this weekend, our people were already working on it. The messages date back to earlier. It has been going on for a while and we have already started a number of actions. On 6 April, a statement was issued from the EU calling for further investigation. That may not yet be the kind of statement that Mr Groothuizen is asking for, but it was a first appeal to do so. Action has also been taken within the OSCE, including at the request of the Netherlands. A call has been made to the Russian Federation to investigate. Can the messages be verified? The Netherlands is also working in the framework of the Equal Rights Coalition, an alliance of 33 countries resulting from the Montevideo Conference in 2016, to issue a statement condemning this violence. It is important to mention that this concerns not only the Netherlands, Denmark and Germany, but also Uruguay, Albania, Ukraine, Serbia and Chile. We have no reason to doubt the reports put forward by Human Rights Watch. This confirms the reports we have heard before and on which we had already taken action. What can we do now to increase people's safety? Our embassy in Moscow and the consulate in St Petersburg actively support gay rights organisations. They do this financially and practically, in all kinds of ways. That's an important part of our work there. We have a program called Shelter City. If the threatened lhbti'ers are leaders of human rights organisations, they can be eligible for this. So we have deployed a rather wide range of actions. This also means that we will continue to follow it very closely. In the spirit of what Mr Grothuizen is asking, we will perhaps take further action or make calls.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u5	I thank the Minister for her answers. I am very pleased that she also feels the urgency on this issue and that the Netherlands has already taken an active position. I do have a number of additional questions. Among other things, the Minister states that further investigation has been called for, both by the EU and in the OSCE context. Has there been a Russian response to that yet? If so, how does the Minister appreciate that Russian reaction? I also just asked whether the Minister is prepared to contact her Russian counterpart to discuss or perhaps even condemn these practices. Can the Minister answer that question? Can the Minister also comment on whether she is prepared to bring the High Representative of the European Union into line with this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u6	I do not know whether the Russian Federation has already responded, but if it has already done so or if it is still responding, I think it would be wise to report it to the Chamber. Our embassy has a lot of contacts, including with the Russian authorities. Maybe it's okay for the embassy to address it first on the spot before we take any further steps. I will also pass that request on to my colleague Bert Koenders. He is speaking to the High Representative and his colleagues at the Foreign Affairs Council this week. Then we can see what else the EU will do in addition to giving this statement. I would like to say the following to Mr Groothuizen. I'll be in New York next Thursday. Then I speak to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. I understand Boris Dittrich is also talking to him on behalf of Human Rights Watch this week. I shall therefore be very happy to follow this up myself. We are looking for an appropriate moment for sending a letter to inform the Chamber of progress and to announce any follow-up actions in the spirit of what Mr Grothuizen suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u7	I welcome the Minister's commitment. I think it is right that we should receive a letter on both the Russian response and the result of the efforts of Minister Koenders. I still have a number of questions that focus more on the Dutch situation. Can the Minister, on the basis of the reports we have received, indicate to what extent the report on the Russian Federation is sufficiently up-to-date? Is the Netherlands prepared to issue humanitarian visas for the group of victims involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u8	I would like to say the following about the post. We have a fairly clear picture of the situation, precisely because of the active role of our embassy and our posts in the Russian Federation. However, I would like to pay particular attention to the situation of Libyans in Chechnya. Again, I do not feel that we are missing anything there, but in the light of the request and the situation it is good to zoom in on it specifically. In formal terms, the Secretary of State for V and J must make the request, but I will pass on Mr Grothuizen's request to him and I am sure he will agree to it. I'll be on the humanitarian visa. There are two options. I understand what Mr Groothuizen is referring to and what Mr Dittrich referred to. Formally-legally, there is no such thing as a humanitarian visa, but there are two other possibilities. First of all, given the situation in Chechnya, if people were to come forward, they would always be judged on a case-by-case basis. The situation can give sufficient reason to say that protection could be provided here. Again: this involves a personal assessment. Secondly, the Netherlands is cooperating with the UNHCR, which can nominate people for resettlement. This group of people would also be eligible for this. Finally, I would like once again to mention Shelter City for the leaders of NGOs. Shelter City is also in the region, in Georgia. Often people want to stay in the region to continue their work, despite the difficult circumstances. They deserve our support and respect for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u9	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u10	I welcome the commitments made by the Minister and all her efforts. I hope that we can make a small contribution on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you, and Ihbti's are lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u12	Yes, I'm sorry, but if I could just have a moment, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u14	We often say gays for short, but it's nice to call people what you'd like to be called. Hence this abbreviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-2.u15	That's why. Thank you.
