ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr A. G. van der Spek. I ask the Members to stand up. On 23 November last, Fred van der Spek, former senator of the Pacific Socialist Party, died. He was a member of the First Chamber from 5 June 1963 to 21 February 1967. Alfred Gustaaf van der Spek was born on 13 December 1923 in The Hague. After going through the hbs, he got the mo-deed for physics and chemistry. From September 1940 to February 1943 he studied physics and chemistry at the "Technische Hogeschool" in Delft. In 1943 he refused to sign the declaration of loyalty and went underground. In April of the same year he did not escape the German order to sign up for the Arbeitseinsatz. He worked at the company Hanomag. After a transfer, he stayed in a hospital for a while. When he then went on recovery vacation, he escaped and went underground again. After the war, he continued his studies. From 1949, Mr Van der Spek worked as a teacher of physics and chemistry at a secondary and secondary school, first in Den Briel and later in The Hague. In 1957 he was one of the founders of the PSP, the Pacific-Socialist Party, a party that originated from a group of "political homeless." Many were active in the peace movement, in particular the peace movement The Third Way, which in the time of the Cold War turned against the politics of both the Eastern bloc and the West bloc. Mr Van der Spek's political career began in 1963. In mid-term elections for a constitutional revision, Group III, consisting of members of Provincial States from North Holland and Friesland, elected him as a member of the First Chamber of the States General. On 5 June 1963 he was sworn in in this house. He was involved in foreign policy, finance and economic affairs. In his maiden speech on 26 November 1963, Mr van der Spek spoke of the ideal of socialism: "We are heading towards a classless society which we consider to be a prerequisite for world peace, a condition for the elimination of the great differences in prosperity nationally, a condition for the elimination of the great differences in prosperity internationally, in particular the differences with the level of prosperity in the developing countries." In addition to his membership of the First Chamber, Mr Van der Spek continued to work as a teacher of physics and chemistry at the Baarnsch Lyceum. There he taught, among other things, the princesses of Orange. As a Republican, he said: "Even princesses are entitled to education." Mr Van der Spek stood out in this house mainly because of his fierce debates with Foreign Minister Luns. From his pacifist conviction, he regularly raised the issue of nuclear weapons and spoke out strongly against the war in Vietnam. For example, he tabled a motion during the budget procedure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1966. He asked the government to urge the US government to stop the bombing of North Vietnam and to recognise the National Liberation Front. In February 1967, Mr Van der Spek was elected as a member of the Lower House, where he would remain for almost twenty years, until 1986. There he continued his resistance to weapons and foreign policy, first as a member and for a long time as group chairman for the PSP. From 1978 to 1985 he was political leader of the party. When PSP members decided to cooperate with other parties in 1985, he withdrew his membership. He spent another year as a one-man party-Van der Spek in the Lower House before leaving the Chamber. After leaving the House of Representatives, he was still involved in the Midday edition as a political commentator. He was also able to be heard on the radio for some time in the program Buitenzorg. In several interviews he talked about his favorite pursuits besides politics. He liked to play chess and table tennis and called himself a "ballettoman," with a pronounced preference for the strict classical ballet. In an interview, Mr Van der Spek, looking back on his political career, said: "I have really achieved little, but I have always been aware of how difficult it is to convince people of their own interest in a socialist society. I never felt it would work for sure, so I couldn't be disappointed." De Volkskrant recently recalled that Fred van der Spek was "an exceptional and talented man whose combative form, distinct sound and black humor were missed in parliament after 1986.' Unmistakable in a changing Netherlands, he has been the voice of people who were passionately opposed to military violence, driven by equality ideals and genuinely fought for a more just world. May our respect for his person and his merit for the Dutch parliamentary democracy be to support his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-eerstekamer-4.u2	I'm suspending the meeting for a few minutes.
