ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Two colleagues are making their maiden speech today, starting with Mr Koerhuis. Then, by way of derogation from the list of speakers, I give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV. After Mr Kops, I shall suspend my congratulations. I call Mr Koerhuis on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about energy targets for housing corporations. This is the first time I have had the opportunity to hold the debate in this Chamber. Here is a man of a fantastic wife and a proud father of three sons, soon also of a daughter. I was born and raised in Dedemsvaart, Overijssel. I was elected from Brussels to the House of Representatives on 15 March. Over the last few years, I have been able to help solve the euro crisis and have helped in Greece and Cyprus to resolve the crisis in the housing market. Especially in Cyprus, I have learned a lot. That's a small island. If you take a measure there at the housing market, you will see the consequences on people's lives. And then you see how important the security of your own home is. I think we all share the feeling that your house is more than four walls with a roof. Your home is the place where you have to feel at home, where you rest after a day of hard work and where you spend time with your family. Your house is important, whether you buy it or rent it. In Cyprus, I saw what it does to people when the security of your home falls away. It causes uncertainty and it gnaws at you. That's why I want to use that knowledge and experience to make sure you can feel at home in the Netherlands. I became a politician because I want to solve problems and because I want my kids to have the same opportunities I've been given. That all starts with a home where you can live well and affordable. That is why I want to work for a balanced housing market. Whether you're buying or renting, if you're looking for a good and affordable house, you should be able to find it. I want a relatively smaller social rental sector and I want corporations to focus on real social housing. I also want a larger middle-rent industry. Now that we have come out of the economic crisis, there is one priority in the housing market: building, building, building. That is three times to build: building real social rental homes, building middle rental homes and building residential properties. Mr. Chairman. Then the energy targets for housing corporations. Everyone wants a good and affordable home. A lower energy bill will help you reduce your living expenses. It makes sense that you need to make your home more energy efficient to get it done. That's why we agreed to that. Unfortunately, corporations are now doing too little to comply with these agreements. The VVD isn't happy about that. A deal is a deal; you keep it. The Paris Agreement has been signed and every step that the corporations do not take will soon be on the sign of the people with their own home. That is not the agreement, and that is not going to happen as far as we are concerned. Corporates need to make their homes more energy efficient. Municipalities, tenants' organisations and corporations are now in the process of making good agreements on this and implementing them, the so-called performance agreements. Money is not a problem here; it is more than enough. It's bouncing up against the skirts. Corporations have over 16 billion to make their homes more energy efficient. Finally. The energy transition in the housing market must be considered in conjunction with all the other issues that affect the Paris Agreement. That discussion is now being held at the formation table and will undoubtedly lead to another debate in this Chamber. I look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you for this beautiful and personal speech. I'll suspend for congratulations later. I now give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV, who is also making his maiden speech. It's nice that a maiden speech doesn't interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Housing corporations do not seem to meet their energy targets, at least not in time. That was the reason for this debate. This is of course a non-subject, but thanks to left-wing parties such as the PvdA and the VVD, it is a very expensive non-subject. Corporate houses should have an average energy label B by 2020. That would initially cost EUR 10 billion. Initially, because if we really want to meet the 2020 deadline, we still have to add EUR 6 billion, as has been shown. 6 billion extra to meet a deadline, that's too ridiculous for words. For example, for this extra money, the entire corporation sector can be supplied with gas and light for one and a half years. It's a bizarre amount of money. Insulation, double glazing, a heat boiler, that's energy label B. If such measures lead to a lower energy bill, that is of course fine. Very good, especially do it. However, if the costs of these measures are then passed on to the rents, the tenants will not get anything out of it. Then it's nothing but an expensive cigar from your own box, because the rents just go up. In addition, energy label B, that's it! In the end, what's the point? Climate-neutral housing; homes should no longer emit CO in the future. That's what people want to go to. Billions of euros are going to cost this air cyclistry based on political emotions. However, something is overlooked, something essential. Those are the tenants and their wallets, because they can finally take the fall for this nonsense. So we see again, in reality it is not about the tenants at all, not about their interests, not about lower burdens. No, they're just here to get squeezed out and finance expensive left-wing hobbies. That brings me to some kind of conclusion, namely that this debate should of course have been about reducing charges. That's where the tenants are going! Thanks to the demolition policy of the VVD and, what is the name of the other party, the PvdA. Thanks to these two parties, the tenants have only forced rent increases in recent years. They've been shamelessly abandoned. But fortunately, the PVV is here. The PVV wants energy-saving measures in the corporate sector to actually lead to a net reduction in charges. My question to the Minister is therefore: is he prepared to ensure that the costs of these measures are not passed on to rental prices in any way? Then the tenants will benefit from it. Where other parties are all too happy to turn a wheel in front of the tenants and constantly saddle them with higher loads, the PVV stands up for them. I can tell you, we'll keep doing that, because it's still desperately necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you. That was all out of the ordinary. I will now suspend for the congratulations. As chairman, I am the first to congratulate you. That's the chairman's privilege.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	Let's move on to the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP. By the way, at the beginning of the debate I forgot to mention that I allow two interruptions and that we do them in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. Of course I congratulate Mr Korenhuis and Mr Kops on their maiden speech. They're gonna use clear language right away. I hope that I can also join with clear language. 50,000 rentals in the first 12 months, 100,000 rentals in 18 months, 800,000 social rentals in five years get free solar panels. 100% green power. This ensures that tenants save on average €264. The programme focuses on tenants in energy poverty. It's a thousand jobs. Some of those jobs go to unemployed army veterans. This example is not from the Netherlands, but it is also paid with Dutch money. It's money from all of us. In England, residents of 900,000 social rental homes receive free solar panels with Dutch money. It's Maas Capital from ABN AMRO. Our money is helping to achieve great goals: climate goals, more green electricity and, above all, less energy poverty, jobs for the unemployed and knowledge that can also be used elsewhere. This is happening in England, not in the Netherlands. This is where the sustainability of corporate housing stalls. Five years ago it was agreed that all homes should have an average energy label B by 2020. According to researchers, they will not achieve this goal until 2030. Only 117 of the 334 companies examined achieve the objective, i.e. 35%. And the corporations are responsible for 10% to 13% of the total Dutch CO emissions. In order to achieve the objectives of the Energy Agreement, this sector is therefore of great importance. And tenants pay a high price for the sustainability of the Netherlands, but this gives them little. Tenants often pay double: their house is not economical and they contribute to the storage of renewable energy. But even if the house of tenants is preserved, tenants often pay this directly and indirectly themselves and their housing costs will not be reduced. Six billion dollars went to electric drive. One Tesla costs society €19,000, but where are the billions for tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	It is, of course, up to the Member of Parliament to determine the structure of an argument, but there has not been an amount of 6 billion to electric cars. Most of that budget went to small, cleaner cars. Only a very small part went to electric cars and a smaller part went to Tesla's. In my view, therefore, there is enough going on in this dossier and there is no need to exaggerate the facts. Does my colleague from the SP agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	I agree with you that you can split costs, but one Tesla actually costs society €19,000. My point is that the tenants of corporation homes are currently paying for the sustainability of the Netherlands, but that they are not yet reaping the benefits. That is why I have requested this debate. Fortunately, I also received that with your support. I asked for this debate because I think that we need to do something about it and that we can ensure that the charges for tenants, especially for tenants in energy poverty, are reduced and that we achieve the energy targets. I think it is precisely in the corporate sector that we can beat a lot of flies with one stone. Of course electric driving is also important, but with this sector you can hit a lot of flies with one stone. This is happening in England now, but not in the Netherlands. That is why I wanted to have this debate and I quote it as a comparison.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	Of course I agree with that intention, but it is also often people in the cheaper rental homes that are close to roads, who suffer from a lot of bad air quality. Cleaner and smaller cars help. Moreover, the change in car taxation legislation has been made budget-neutral. So there's no money left that can go to the corporation houses right now. The money that used to go to the electric cars now just goes to heavier diesel cars. I think the SP and GroenLinks both want people to be able to rent decently and affordable, but also that they have air around them that is healthy and that they can inhale.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	I found only that the lusts and burdens are unfairly distributed. Especially the rich now benefit from the billions for sustainability. I'd like to see that different. I want to catch up, just because a lot of tenants are in energy poverty. That share gets bigger if we don't pay attention. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. Doesn't the support for sustainability disappear if tenants don't see their costs fall? In England, with Dutch money, a lot of flies are being beaten with one stone. We must also do this in the Netherlands. If you don't already do it to give tenants a better house, if you don't already do it to give tenants lower housing costs, if you don't already do it to create jobs, at least do it to get the energy agreement. Is the Minister prepared to make more money available for the sustainability of corporate housing? Will the Minister abolish all or part of the landlord's tax? Will the Minister look at the possibilities for banks, including banks that have been saved with public money, to participate in such schemes and, of course, to appeal to corporate housing at the same time? After all, the Empire and the banks are already contributing to such funds for the buyers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	It's an enlightening question. The SP says that there is investment in England with Dutch money. Can Mrs Beckerman explain in what way that is paid with Dutch money? Are we talking about ordinary investments? The SP seems to suggest a bit that Dutch tax money is being spent in England. So I'm curious to see what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	That's a nice question. Active in England is Maas Capital, a daughter of ABN AMRO. As you know, ABN AMRO is still 60% in the hands of all of us. ABN AMRO has been supported by public money. Now that money is partly invested in England. I believe that this is a very good project, because it is a very good one. Veterans who have been unemployed for a long time will be brought back to work. People who are in energy poverty and cannot pay their bills are helped with their bills. They're gonna go $264. I've just converted it up to $264. That's very nice. And I thought: hey, if that happens indirectly with Dutch money, can't we do that in the Netherlands? Because you know that there is a regulation for buyers at the moment, partly financed by the government and partly by the banks, and that such a regulation on such a large scale does not yet exist for the tenants. So I thought, "Whatever we can do in England, we can do here."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	Of course, it's wonderful if there can be a win-win situation for the most vulnerable, but the SP seemed to suggest that it only wants Dutch money to be invested in the Netherlands. If we were to remove all foreign capital from the Netherlands, we would also suffer a certain loss. So I'm glad the SP doesn't seem to suggest that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	Oh, no, absolutely not. I thought it was a very good example. There are very nice aspects, which I often miss in the Dutch discussions on sustainability, namely: how can we focus on the people who are really in trouble now, because they can no longer pay their living expenses and because their energy bills are rising? Or because, when their house is preserved, they have to pay extra for their home?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	So I thought they'd do that in England by really focusing on that group that's in energy poverty. We can learn from that, especially if that happens with Dutch money. Actually, I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Koerhuis on his very clear language and Mr Kops on his creativity. It's badly needed in this room. Calling the VVD "left" is always another sound. We need to get rid of fossil energy. Generate renewable energy and, above all, use less energy. We can take great steps by making our homes and offices more sustainable. If it is up to the Party for the Animals, energy-neutral homes become the norm as soon as possible instead of the exception. For housing corporations, which jointly own 2.3 million homes, this is a huge task. Through covenants and partnerships they have been trying for years to make them more sustainable, but it is not possible. The Party for Animals therefore wants a mandatory measure for housing corporations to have all their homes energy neutral by 2030. Playtime's over. The government can support corporations by abolishing the landlord's tax. This will release 1.7 billion euros each year that corporations can use to make their homes more sustainable. It's enough to make 100,000 homes more sustainable every year. We also need to adapt the tight regulations. Take the energy performance fee. A fine scheme in itself, which encourages housing corporations to invest in energy-neutral homes. It allows them to ask their tenants for compensation in order to recoup their investment. It is reasonable in itself, but this can only be done if renewable energy has been generated in one's own home. For example, flat dwellers can't do that, because they don't have their own roof or garden. So energy has to be generated elsewhere, but then the scheme and the right to the energy performance compensation lapses. It is therefore necessary to extend this regulation. Another solution is building-related funding. This allows the private owner to renovate the property to energy-neutrally without his own investment. For example, the investment is carried out by an energy company. The property owner pays back the investment in monthly instalments equal to the previous energy bill. The Court has often called for an arrangement for this, but so far it is still a working party which is examining the possibilities for this. The research age is over as far as we're concerned. We'd like to argue in favour of practical experiments. Finally, offices. They don't have to have energy label C until 2023. That's six years from now. Last week it appeared that 80% of the offices still have to work very hard. So far too little has actually happened. What measures will the Minister take to ensure that the offices actually meet the agreed standard in six years' time? Can he, for example, impose a tax on buildings that are not going to make it and a reward if the office is energy neutral by then? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	My congratulations to the gentlemen Koershuis and Kops; welcome to this illustrious company here in the House of Representatives. Last week was the first week I ever experienced in which all items of news broadcasts were about a climate- and weather-related problem. This underlines once again the urgency to have not only many beautiful ambitions, covenants, conferences and texts in the Netherlands, but also to actually take concrete steps in the outside world towards less energy consumption and more renewable energy. One of these elements is that we want to use less gas. The government's ambition is: by 2050 the built environment completely off the gas. I have today tabled an initiative law to take a first step to this end and in any case, the connection obligation that we still have in Dutch law at the moment, if anyone asks for anything that is a home, must be removed from the gas network. I was curious to hear what the Minister thinks about housing corporations: should new buildings be gasless in the future? Is the Minister prepared to discuss this at least with the housing corporations? We, as GroenLinks, would like the Minister to take the lead. We understand that this is a period of formation with an old cabinet and a new cabinet, but discussions and some encouragement may be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	From gas, the removal of the connection obligation to gas, is a wish that lives widely in the Chamber. There have been several motions on this subject. That's why Minister Kamp has already announced that he's coming up with a bill. Maybe that's even there. So I wondered what prompted Mrs Van Tongeren to come forward with a legislative proposal in addition to what the government has already announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	I will ask the Minister later, but if you announce a measure, it will take a long time before it actually takes effect. Because there is indeed broad support in the House of Representatives for that small piece, the deletion of the connection obligation, I thought: let me not grumble that the Minister is not getting along, but let me take the initiative on this piece myself. If this law goes ahead fairly soon, this could be completed by 1 July 2018. We are dealing with several letters of amendment to the Heat Act. By the time that law has been dealt with and proclaimed by both chambers, it may be later than 1 July 2018. Moreover, the Minister has opted for a slightly weaker solution, namely not to remove the obligation to connect, but to give the municipalities the choice to identify areas where the obligation to connect no longer applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	In practice, it is also clear that two chambers should also deal with the issue of own-initiative legislation. Own-initiative laws can also enter into force only after they have been published in the Official Journal. I therefore wonder whether the route chosen by Mrs Van Tongeren is, by definition, faster, especially since she says that she is actually selling it against the bill announced. It would then make sense to compare these options at least. I am a little surprised that this initiative is being presented to the Chamber so widely. I do not yet see the advantage of a separate legislative proposal, but that is of course up to every Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	If there is a coincidence between two legislative proposals, it is customary under national law for the Member's initiative to be dealt with first. So that gives it a little extra speed. Suppose the minister or the new cabinet took care of it earlier, that's perfect. It is not my intention to do all this work with the group for this initiative law; it is my intention to achieve this objective. If that goes faster in another way, that's fine. Mrs Van Veldhoven and I have both experienced that when we dealt with legislation on mining or energy, we had to deal with a considerable pile of adopted motions and announced changes. As a result, it will take a very long time in practice for the whole package to pass. I therefore thought: I will only take out this one clause, which has broad support, and then we will see if we can make it a reasonable pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	So that was my question to the Minister. We have also read that the covenant does not yield what it is intended to do. The Court of Auditors has also noted that there is hardly any agreement to achieve the objective for which it has been concluded. There is generally a movement in the right direction, but rarely the objectives of the covenant are met. In his letter, the Minister mentions different scenarios. GroenLinks is particularly interested in developing the 2030 scenario. Is the Minister prepared to at least work that out? What does that mean in general? What does that mean about intermediate steps? The Minister announces mandatory measures. What if we do? What if we do? When would these measures be in force at the earliest? If I just count on a piece of paper myself, I'll come up in one and a half if not two years. If you say that it should be done by 2020, then it will probably also be very difficult with mandatory measures. 550,000 homes of the corporations would have to get rid of the gas in the next three years; Mrs Beckerman also said so. Is there at all sufficient capacity in the construction sector to get that amount of housing off the gas per year? My next question concerns the BES islands, which are also part of our Kingdom. There is also the ambition to make the homes more sustainable. What can the Minister say about that? How's it going over there with corporate housing? My very last second I want to use for something that I hope all Members of Parliament know what it is: the water-side adjustment of central heating systems. When you hear that, you think, "What the hell is that?', But it's like Band on Voltage. You think "that's nothing," but it can have an incredibly big effect if you apply it to the entire corporation system. If those resumes are well tuned, it saves a hefty amount of energy. In this interim period, the Minister could work together with the umbrella of housing corporations to ensure that this happens everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Koershuis and Mr Kops on their maiden speech. We are holding this debate at an uncomfortable time. Next week we will hear the plans of the current government and a general consultation is planned on building regulations and energy saving. In addition, there is, of course, coalition formation, the formation process. Having said that, I would like to draw your attention to the State of Housing 2017. It indicates that investment by housing corporations and energy saving measures has increased compared to previous years. That conclusion was drawn after analysis of the performance agreements 2016. Almost all performance agreements with landlords and municipalities have made agreements on sustainability. So one does have it on the retina, but the question is whether that is enough. It is clear that the targets will not be met by 2020 if policies remain unchanged. This image is also reflected in the article in the newspaper Trouw of 22 June 2017, but that was already old news at that time, as we discussed this with the minister earlier. In the meantime, we have heard that Aedes' Housing Agenda aims to achieve average label B in 2021. We regret the delay, but welcome the initiative of the corporation sector to catch up as quickly as possible. Another point concerns the indicative spending area of the housing corporations, the IBW. This gives an indication of the maximum spending area per housing corporation on top of the existing investment programmes and the standards of the Authority Housing Corporations and the Social Housing Guarantee Fund. Again, we talked about this earlier. The CDA would like to hear from the Minister how he intends to deal with the 72 corporations that do not have sufficient resources for their own task. A large part of this deficit lies with the ten larger corporations in the Randstad. They have relatively old property with poor energy labels and have a relatively low IBW. What direction of solution has been agreed with the corporation sector in this respect? Finally. Everyone is very focused on energy saving and energy neutrality. This has the consequence that often closed systems with mechanical fresh air supply are chosen. This makes not only a lot of demands on maintenance, but also on the use of it by residents. The question to the Minister is how he thinks he can adequately guarantee the health aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. I too would, of course, like to begin by congratulating the two colleagues. It's a good time. I wish you both the best of luck. A few may still call it a non-subject, but this is about a lower energy bill, more comfort for tenants and less dependence on gas from Groningen or Russia. The beauty of energy saving is that all purses actually improve on it, regardless of the profits for the climate. Corporates are very important players for D66 in making the existing construction more sustainable, especially for players, especially for families, especially for people with a small scholarship. Then we face an important problem: the imbalance between the corporations. Some corporations are rich, some poor. This is true, for example, in the Randstad, where a very large part of the task lies. Then there are two other important factors that do not make the whole progress towards sustainability easier for corporations. The approach is too fragmented and the knowledge about sustainability is sometimes insufficient for developers and builders. I feel that the Minister recognizes these concerns and I therefore ask him how he wants to ensure scaling up and more knowledge and innovation in construction, which also makes label steps cheaper. That is necessary, because our targets are not just 2020. After that, we still have a huge task to do in order to achieve the goals of Paris. So much more is needed. So we will also have to ensure that costs are reduced. How do you even recognize a contractor who knows what he's talking about? Last week I visited the most sustainable hotel in the Netherlands. It's right here in The Hague. It's from a beautiful entrepreneur who really wants to. He missed a large subsidy because the contractor did not know which LED lamps were and which were not covered by the subsidy scheme. It can't be like that, can it? How do you recognize a contractor who knows what he's talking about? The instruments were not sufficient for a long time. Think, for example, of the STEP scheme, which has been adapted and is now working better now, fortunately, but also of the Fund's energy saving rental sector. There are hardly any applications for this fund. EUR 75 million is unemployed, while the challenge is so great. Why, according to the Minister, has the terms of this fund not been changed before following the STEP scheme? My group colleagues have asked for this before. I have a number of other specific questions for the Minister. I would like to ask him why he thinks that so little progress has been made in recent years. What can be done to ensure that the investment capacity that exists in the entire corporate sector is used in those areas where it is so badly needed? How do we get out of this split incentive, of course, without treating those who have looked after their pennies in an unfair way? How do we get out of there? Do the rules for housing market regions stand in the way of this, for example? And if so, why do we not adapt these rules? D66 wants us to work with the corporations to see what's possible. This is in the interest of the tenants, who all want to have a comfortable home, and in the interest of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	I shall go back to the beginning of Mrs Van Veldhoven's speech. I heard her say that the energy and climate measures would be good for everyone's wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	Does she guarantee the tenants who are listening to this debate, then now and here, that they will be making progress on balance? In other words, will the cost of these measures not be reflected in the rents? Does she guarantee that to the tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	I believe that the energy performance compensation system is doing exactly that. That's separate from the development of rents that have nothing to do with sustainability. It may well be possible for some people to mix these things together, but now it is so arranged that the energy performance compensation should only cover investments that really lead to a reduction in the energy bill. The whole idea is to give your residents a more comfortable home and a lower energy bill. The beauty of energy saving is that it earns itself back, and that means that you also get some of that from the people who have the lower energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	Again, on balance, the tenants are not getting anything ahead of it. Nothing at all. I wonder whether Mrs Van Veldhoven has read the Minister's letter correctly, because that letter simply acknowledges that corporations are allowed to pass on the costs of the measures one-on-one in the rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	No. Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	So the balance for the tenants is just zero. The conclusion is that this is precisely what the citizens are looking at. I said it in my speech. Because it doesn't help the citizens at all. They're gonna take the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	They're gonna take the fall for it? So they don't. The representative of the PVV just explained that fantastic. They're not going backwards at all. That was just explained perfectly. I think we should stop saying 'they're the victims' or 'they're all going backwards', because that's not true at all. I am glad that Mr Kops himself has explained this so clearly. What do these tenants get? They get a comfortable home. They get a house where they don't run the risk of the energy bill becoming sky-high at once. I was at work visiting a corporation that showed me the properties. In some homes, I could just look in between the frame and the wall. Those apartments had one gas stove. How are the children of that family supposed to study if they can't even do their homework in their own bedroom because they have to do it in that one living room? That's why these tenants are getting better. They get a place where you don't have to wear three sweaters because you're afraid you won't be able to pay the energy bill otherwise. That's what D66 wants for all people, including those homes. Mr Kops may say that they should not go backwards, but they should not go backwards. They're getting better. I very much hope that the PVV will join us so that the living comfort of these groups can also improve. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you. The Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	Madam President. First of all, I would like to congratulate members of Kurhuis and Kops on their maiden speech. I welcome them to the world of the Hague, a world from which I will soon leave, but where I have had ten very beautiful years. I also wish them many years of prosperity and happiness in this house. I am standing here with a certain inconvenience; let me just put that on the table. The first reason for this is Mrs Van Tongeren's question: what about the houses in the Caribbean Netherlands? I just came from there. Of a hundred houses the roofs have blown off or they are otherwise severely damaged. Honestly, I'm largely thinking about that right now. This inconvenience is added to the fact that I took over this portfolio responsibility shortly before the Parliamentary elections, thinking that I might be able to deal with the current cases during the missionary period. But tomorrow was six months ago. The House of Representatives has been elected for four years. In the meantime, six months have passed. And we're only in "K" here. We are, of course, doing our best to fully justify ourselves, but there is little more we can do. As far as you could do something in your missionary role I have reviewed my letter of July 14th, my department, I believe, has been very helpful to the process by giving a full overview of all conceivable scenarios with all their consequences. That can be handed over one-on-one to the people who are turning together a cabinet a few rooms away. I hope that will succeed at some point. I understand it's not gonna work out for Princess Day, so we still have a poor policy situation. But there are big issues ahead. I agree with everyone who supports the importance of this, but I am totally in no position to make any decisions about it now. I might be able to answer some of the technical questions, but that doesn't help us either. I reread the letter from July. I thought it was a good letter. In that letter I have indicated that there are different scenarios to meet the effort obligation to cut 5 petajoule extra; we assume that that goal needs to be met. I have also shown that there is tension, for example, between meeting the 2020 target in the short term and using the same budget to achieve a higher ambition for the longer term. There is also tension for housing corporations with the commissioning of new construction. The shortage of homes, especially for start-ups, is a major bottleneck. And, of course, there is a relationship with the objective of rent moderation, which also has a role to play in ensuring that there is a consent requirement for tenants. If something came back on the left or right in the rents, the law says that the tenants should agree with that. So that's gonna be a whole puzzle. I wish the people at the formation table good luck with that, but I have, I think, done everything I can by putting all these scenarios in the picture so that they can be worked out. There is also a political aspect to this issue, which has just turned out to be an interruption, so what are you asking me now? It could also be that there are different views under the VVD, the PvdA, GroenLinks and the PVV, but I am not going to contribute much to that joy right now. I'll just say this as an illustration of the inconvenience. I will try to answer a question which has been put to me here and there, but I really want to confine myself to the objective technical observations so that the political choices can be made by a majority in the Chamber. Mr Koerhuis said that there is enough money available and that the corporations must keep the agreements. Aedes is indeed preparing a package to achieve the objectives of the energy agreement. There's a legal measure behind hand, but all right, I'm assuming Aedes is going to achieve those goals, given the housing agenda. Mr Kops said: sustainability leads to higher costs for the tenant. In the scenarios I put forward in the letter of 14 July, the starting point is that the average housing costs remain the same, but I have already made a number of comments about tensions in them. The SP asks where the billions are for tenants. The Indicative Deployment Room Housing Corporations, published by me, shows that additional €16 billion is available for renovation and sustainability. The corporations make agreements with the municipalities and tenants about the use of that spending space. I am therefore assuming that Aedes will meet the target by 2020. However, there is a need for measures and they must be taken. Mrs Beckerman asked if I could make commitments on this, but I can no longer do so on that point. They'll have to be done somewhere, but not by me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	I would like to say a few words about this. You just outlined that it is taking a very long time and that you have indeed taken over part of this portfolio for the past six months. I think we should make good use of the time, too. I have mentioned an example from England. You have listed a number of scenarios, for which you are grateful. I thought, if the thinking shouldn't stand still, wouldn't we be able to look at this scenario as well? For buyers, such a scheme already exists, whereby you work with banks yourself. Couldn't that be for tenants, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	I can't really see that right now, but if there is an additional scenario to be found, I will immediately admit that we will map it out and make it available to the people who are working on it. That is what I am saying, but once again I cannot accept the assumption that it would be otherwise arranged there. That's what I'd have to map. GroenLinks is asking for the lifting of the gas connection obligation and if I want to take charge of it. In any case, this subject belongs to the portfolio of the Minister for Economic Affairs, who, I understand, addressed the gas connection obligation in his letter of 13 June. He also proposed an amendment to the Gas Act when the Heat Act was amended. For the sake of clarity, I can refer to that. So, if there is any direction on this point, it is at least with the successor of Mr Kamp van Economische Zaken. Another point is the development of the scenario where in 2030 all homes need a label A. In the letter I also outlined the scenario of average label A in 2030 for the corporation sector. Whatever ambition is chosen is indeed up to another cabinet. Am I willing to talk about water-side adjustment at CV installations? It has come to my attention that my people are willing to engage in that conversation. That is what I have promised to do. Finally, there is a question from Mr Ronnes, who himself also points out that it is, of course, a formation dossier. So it's there for a large part. He asked: what are the possibilities to help the 82 corporations that cannot handle the task? This is about the financial space that might become available. It is really up to the next cabinet to decide on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	I would like to thank the Minister for entering into the discussion with the sector on the water-side adjustment of the central heating systems. That can go on quietly, even in a missionary cabinet. The Minister is putting his head in the lap by saying: I really can't do anything anymore. I asked him to talk to the housing corporations about the possibility of not connecting new buildings to the gas. It will certainly take until July 2018 for the law of Minister Kamp or of his successor or my initiative law to pass. In the meantime, plans are also being made and delivered. This Minister must therefore certainly be able to have a discussion on this matter. I asked the following questions. Do you even get that done at 550,000 houses in two years? At what time could there be a mandatory measure? What can the Minister do for sustainable, energy-efficient housing in the BES islands, also with a view to reconstructing the challenge of the weather? These are all things that do not require legislation. It's a lot of conversations. That could also be done by a missionary minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	I can have conversations, but the sector will still want to know what I am taking, what my financial area is, what laws I intend to adopt and what sticks I have behind my door, whether or not I have in the area of legislation. Then I can draw the agendas, then I have an appointment with Aedes in two or four weeks and I can talk to each other. But I hope there will be a missionary cabinet here by then! This can then be said with the support of a majority in the Chamber: we have cut through those buttons and so we want to enter into that conversation. I'd be happy to facilitate and support it, but at some point it's done. Again, I reread the July letter. It was written with the idea: this is about the summary of the options that lie ahead; let there be a new cabinet as soon as possible; that can go ahead and cut through. At some point, it stops. I feel the discomfort, but I think people at home feel the discomfort. They think: for once, let a new cabinet sit in box K and let it pursue that policy. I have many views on what policy should be pursued in the area of sustainability, but it does not make much sense for me to present them here on behalf of a outgoing cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	Could the Minister give me concrete answers to my three specific questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	I need your help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	Short!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	If any cabinet decides on a mandatory measure, how long will it take for this mandatory measure to apply in the housing corporation sector? If you want to make it by 2020, it's about 150,000 houses. It takes some time for such a measure to come into force. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	You may only repeat the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u48	Sorry, I'll just repeat the questions. This was one question. What can we do for the BES islands? How can we ensure that people end up in energy-efficient social housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u49	In response to the question of the law, I say: I have no knowledge of it that does not live with the spokesmen either. Then the question is how long the trajectory will last and when it will be in force. I'm not gonna be interesting about that. Such a legislative process takes a while. Then it still has to be introduced and executed. I agree with Mrs Tongeren that, if you want to, you need to speed up; that is true. On the BES islands, it's a bit of a different planet if I'm going to talk about isolating houses where the roof is off. I'll be right back. Then I'm gonna go over there with people and see how we can absorb the damage and what we're gonna do right now. By the way, there are hardly any housing units there. I do not think that is where the major problem lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u50	We're going to the second term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u51	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I thought the minister ended the order of the speakers. I had asked a number of look-back questions. I understand very well that the Minister cannot look forward and that he says: that is up to a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u52	Could you briefly mention the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u53	I asked why the conditions for the fund, for example, had not been changed before. A number of colleagues have already asked for this. I also asked about the housing market rules. Perhaps, in the eyes of the Minister, they have created a barrier to sustainability in recent years. If so, there would be a reason to change those rules. If the Minister is not prepared to answer that question directly, I am also happy if he answers that question in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u54	I would prefer to do so by letter. Then the Chamber will receive the answer by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u55	I think that's excellent. It is important, I think, to have that analysis for the continuation of the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u56	Let's move on to the second term. I call Mrs Beckerman, because Mr Koerhuis did not need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u57	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I felt like he was thinking along with me for a long time. I'll file a motion. Maybe the Minister can make a commitment, but we'll see about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ABN AMRO Maas Capital invests nearly EUR 200 million in large-scale and "free" places of solar panels on social housing in parts of the United Kingdom;]] [[whereas agreements have been made in the Netherlands to make corporate housing more sustainable, but the sustainability targets are not met;]] [[calls on the Government to examine possibilities for comparable investments in the Netherlands aimed at making corporate housing and lower housing costs sustainable and, where necessary, supporting these investments with accompanying policies, for example in the form of grants, and to submit the findings to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-451]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mr. Chairman. I share the Minister's inconvenience somewhat, in the sense that he has not answered any questions. With us, there is the inconvenience that the corporations are not going to get their agreements in any way. That's why I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that energy savings are the main means of reducing demand for fossil fuels, and that sustainability of houses plays an important role in this;]] [[noting that housing corporations are unable to meet their commitments to make sufficient housing energy efficient;]] [[noting that by abolishing the landlord's tax, EUR 1.7 billion will be available each year to invest;]] [[calls on the Government to convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation for housing corporations in energy-neutral homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy saving is the most important way of reducing demand for fossil fuels and that sustainability of houses plays an important role in this;]] [[noting that housing corporations are unable to meet their commitments to make sufficient housing energy efficient;]] [[calls on the Government to include a legal obligation for an energy-neutral housing supply of housing corporations by 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-452]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-453]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u59	The final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that energy savings are the main means of reducing demand for fossil fuels and that the sustainability of offices plays an important role in this;]] [[noting that offices only need to have energy label C from 2023 onwards, but that 80% of the offices do not yet have this target in their reach;]] [[calls on the government to impose charges on buildings that do not meet this agreed standard by 2023 and a reward for offices that do,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-454]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u60	I have a question about the first motion, about the different use of the landlord's tax, that is to say for the sustainability statement. This means that a 1.7 billion hole is being struck. It is common for motions to be filed with cover. How do you propose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u61	You know as well as we do that the landlord levy goes to the general budget. They are used for all kinds of other things, and we cannot recover what exactly is being used for these resources. That is the essence of the general means. The 1.7 billion that could possibly be paid out of the general budget for sustainability also remains in the market, i.e. the housing corporation market. Those resources are being used there for sustainability. The money remains in the same sustainability circuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u62	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u63	No discussion, Mr Ronnes, you may only ask a question about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u64	My idea is that this motion will strike a 1.7 billion hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u65	Then you've made your point. Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to get control of the housing corporations on the central heating plant. That could immediately bring down the energy bill for a group of tenants. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas two thirds of new buildings in the Netherlands will still be connected to natural gas in the coming years;]] [[Whereas, as it now stands, new housing units of housing corporations are also connected to the gas network;]] [[Whereas natural gas is a fossil fuel which is finite and the government stated in the Energy Agenda that Dutch households should no longer use natural gas in 2050;]] [[calls on the Government to take the lead to bring together municipalities, energy suppliers and housing corporations with the aim of identifying what is needed in concrete terms to build all new buildings without gas connection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-455]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u67	There's one more sentence I need from the heart. I understand that it is difficult for the Minister to rule as a outgoing minister, but it is the Dutch government. It may be a short time, it may be a long time that the government is missionary, but the minister is and remains a full minister. We therefore expect him to act as Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u68	Mr President, a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas energy-saving measures in corporate housing, such as housing isolation, should result in a net reduction in charges;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the cost of energy-saving measures in corporate housing is not passed on in any way to rental prices,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-456]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u69	Mr. Chairman. I noticed in the debate that I am not the only one who thinks that this debate is being held at a somewhat unfortunate time. I actually put two specific questions to the Minister. One was about the indicative spending area of the housing corporations. I have discussed this with the Minister before, but also with his predecessor. I actually expected that there would have been consultations with the corporations in the meantime to see what kind of approach you could use to solve that problem. I did not expect him to inform us about the new policy, but he would inform us about the possibilities that exist. It might have been mentioned, but in that case I missed it and it's my omission. Everything is focused on energy-neutral or energy-efficient trying to screw down the energy consumption. But you can also see that these technical solutions ensure that mechanical air is supplied in spaces and that has an effect on health. How is the health aspect sufficiently secured? If it's all new, it's all beautiful, but if we're ten, fifteen, twenty years away, it means a huge hit because it all needs to be maintained and the equipment still needs to be used properly. That was the other question I had before the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that Mr Ronnes quite rightly made that last point. We must indeed ensure that the indoor climate and air quality are in order. This means that ventilation and such are extremely important, especially when we make our homes more energy efficient. It's not just about sealing all the cracks. You also have to make sure you get healthy air in your house. An important point of attention! A warm house at a low price, that allows D66 everyone. Much remains to be done, both in the sector and in the public sector. The sector, I think, is really about sharing the knowledge about what can be done, how to do it and what the new possibilities are. There's a hell of a lot to go on. There is an enormous amount of technology, but you can also see that the construction sector is still extremely conservative in many places. I hope that will change a great deal. The recognition of entrepreneurs who are forerunners in this area and know exactly what they are talking about can really be much better. I think it is important to discuss this with the sector too. I'd say that's something for a next cabinet. Thank you to the Minister for his commitment to deliver a letter, including on the EFB scheme. I would ask him to take with him the pilots he is running when he talks about the housing market regions. These pilots are being evaluated and the results should be taken into account; we are looking forward to doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u71	Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to have tried to answer Mrs van Veldhoven's question, because that would prevent a letter. There is now another question from Mr Ronnes, which brings us to the letter. I shall therefore now shed my light on those two first questions. The first question is why this fund for tenants has not been adapted before. This is a retrospecting question, to which the answer is that it has been awaited whether the introduction of the energy performance fee by September 2016 has led to more applications for the benefit of the sector. That didn't turn out to be the case. Her second question was whether housing market regions are hindering sustainability. The answer to this is that corporations are allowed to renovate outside their core region, so that is not an obstacle to the sustainability of existing assets. I have already tried to give an oral answer to his question, but since Mr Ronnes is now asking me to inform him of the state of play on the point he has raised, and I would also like to respond to that, I still keep the promise of a letter. Perhaps I can add a little more depth to my answer to Mrs Van Veldhoven's question. Which brings me to the motions. First of all, the motion by Mr Beckerman/Van Raan to item No. 451. If I may read that motion in such a way that I will examine exactly what this case is in England and whether it might have produced a scenario that had escaped my attention at the time of the July letter, when it might be interesting, then I will leave the judgment on that motion to your Chamber. I think we will be there, because Mr Van Raan's motions on items Nos. 452, 453 and 454 are all three policy areas. You can't say they're politically poor. Nor can you say that there is absolutely no delay for many, because that can of course be decided in four weeks' time. My advice would have been held or dissuaded. This also applies to Mrs Van Tongeren's motion on item No. 455, with the ultimate goal to build all new buildings without gas connection. I can see that an investigation is only a step towards that, but it is an important signal if you, as a cabinet, are going to take that step. I do think that is a policy-rich decision, and I do not have the room at this time to leave it to the Chamber to judge it. My suggestion on the motions on items Nos. So 452, 453 and 453 have been stopped and if I have to give an opinion on it now, it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mrs. Van Veldhoven on a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u73	Since the Minister is talking about policy-rich versus policy-poor: in the motion in part No. 451 is also "where necessary to support this investment with accompanying policies, e.g. in the form of grants." I was wondering whether the Minister considered that this was not also covered by the term 'policy-rich'. I agree with the idea that we should at least examine how this example is now in England, a poor policy and interesting one, but the part of the subsidies seems to me to be a policy-driven part. Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u74	I read the operative part in such a way that 'calls on the government to examine possibilities', and then comes what we are going to investigate, namely similar investments in the Netherlands, which aim to make it more sustainable and where necessary to support those investments. That's all part of that investigation. That is why I said: if I can read the motion in such a way that I actually keep my first-term commitment, then I will leave it to the Chamber to decide on the motion. If you read in it that I am committed to rejecting subsidies, then I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven, but I do not think you need to read that motion in such a way and it can all depend on that investigation, and I had already promised it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u75	Then there is the motion on part No. 456.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u76	On the motion-Knops in part No. 456 I can give an opinion, because it is really contrary to standing policy. Standing policy does not rule out the fact that where housing costs are reduced by energy saving, the total net burden is neutral. It says here that this should not be the case either, so even without a new policy, I can advise against this motion. Then I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mrs. Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u78	In the operative part of my motion in part No. 455 is on its own: inventory. So how that can be seen as something other than poor policy, I don't quite understand. It's taking direction to inventory something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u79	Now we're gonna... Look, Mrs Beckerman's first motion, which says, "God, I know a case in England, you want to put that in the picture again." Well, I promised. I don't think it's a problem to do that. The Van Veldhoven motion contains a statement from the Chamber, which, by taking direction and conducting research, has the ultimate aim of building all new buildings without gas connection. I think that is an honorable end goal and I may even agree with it in my heart, but it is not up to me to start that process now. I really think that's something for the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u80	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-14-tweedekamer-6.u81	The motions tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday, 26 September. I thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery who have followed the debate, the staff and the officials, and I close the sitting.
