ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Fred van der Spek. From 1967 to 1986 he served in the Lower House of the Pacific-Socialist Party (PSP) of which the last eight years as chairman of the political group. I would like to welcome his family: his daughter Eve with her husband and the grandchildren and his son David with his partner. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister, Mark Rutte. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. During the time Van der Spek was in the Chamber, the PSP was for complete, unilateral disarmament. The party saw socialism as an alternative to the existing capitalist society. And that change had to be achieved in a democratic, non-violent way. This trifle made the party unique, in the midst of the other left parties at that time, and Van der Spek was the personification of it. He was a man who stood squarely behind his ideals: driven, principled, steadfast. His statement on the election evening of 1977, when Van der Spek was not in danger of being re-elected, is indicative: "My seat is staggering, but I am not wavering." When Van der Spek entered the Chamber, the war raged in Vietnam and Portugal and Greece were dictatorships and at the same time NATO members. The Cold War was on full swing and inequality in the world increased. That was sufficient reason for Van der Spek to trade his job as a teacher of physics and chemistry for politics. It was the time of the "great stories" in the Dutch parliament. In particular, the left-wing parties saw the Lower House in that post-war period not only as a marketplace for interests, but also as a stage to convey their ideas about a better society. And that was certainly true for Van der Spek. His ideals twilighted as he took the floor on his favorite foreign affairs, development cooperation and defence dossiers. Van der Spek was a feared and respected debater and he spoke at the sharpest of the cuts. In a debate on nuclear missiles in the 1980s, he called the American president a "war maniac," but that was not allowed by President Dolman. Then Van der Spek turned it into the English word "warmonger." "For," he said, "that's from Shakespeare." "Warstoker," said Dolman. To which Van der Spek replied: "I'd be happy to leave that on your behalf." Then Minister of Foreign Affairs Joseph Luns and he bowed to each other when Van der Spek came forward to interrupt. He carefully prepared his actions and amendments. Van der Spek was a hardliner, but soft on the relationship. According to colleagues, from the PvdA to the VVD, you could laugh a lot with him. He was a gangmaker who unexpectedly could tap slanted jokes to bring the atmosphere into it. He was good at working together, too. But when it came to his ideals, he was a man of steel. "You don't compromise on principles," he said. When the social tide changed, left-wing parties wanted to modernise their starting points and plan to work together, Van der Spek ended. The formation of GroenLinks meant his final farewell to his party and later to politics. I think that we most certainly honour Van der Spek when we try to put his political influence on society into words. Finally, I would like to mention the special day of 21 November 1981, the day when Van der Spek, with his family, was deeply moved in the bay of their home in Amsterdam-Zuid and saw rows of people walking along towards the Museumplein. It was the morning of the first great peace demonstration in the Netherlands, which brought 400,000 people to life. A moment of tears, one day full of hope. When Van der Spek spoke at the Museumplein he was announced as follows: "If anyone has a right to speak today, it is Van der Spek." We commemorate Van der Spek as a driven and solid MP, a keen debater, who put his life in the service of the general interest. A convinced socialist and pacifist and a steadfast optimist who continued to believe in a better society. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	Madam President. At a time when many in Dutch politics wrote the word "principle" with a capital P, there was one man who preferably wrote this concept entirely in capital. That man was Fred van der Spek. Of course, whoever becomes a politician has beliefs. That's from all times. But more steadfast, idealistic and persistent than Fred van der Spek there are few in our parliamentary history. He's been loyal to himself and everything he stood for for for a lifetime. Those weren't exactly small ideals. In 2004, at the age of 80, he said: "I fully support the principles of socialisation and pacification, and I believe in its feasibility." That leaves nothing to be desired for clarity, and that suited him: no doubt but conviction. Fred van der Spek didn't even know what it was like to talk to flour in the mouth. He could be tough on opponents, especially in the polarized seventies. To the legendary Bibeb, he once told people about him that someone with such a sharp tongue couldn't be a pacifist. He showed self-knowledge at this point when he said, "I'm not killing anyone, but I'm often deadly sarcastic." Van der Spek was already active in national politics when I was still born, and so were many of you. But his political highlight and that of his party must indeed be put on the spot. You quoted that beautifully just now, President-in-Office of the Council, around those major nuclear demonstrations at the beginning of the 1980s. I myself was 16 years old then, and, you will not be surprised, not a supporter of the PSP. At the same time I remember Fred van der Spek's enormous radiance and energy. He was a man of holy fire. At that time, and still today, I could only show great respect for that. There was also another, more laughtery and self-reliant side. Fred van der Spek liked to throw opponents in a debate with a fluke on the wrong foot. He later told with taste how he could get his political friends on the left by dealing with jokes in the Chamber with Hans Wiegel, who also often brought him home after late debates. An unexpected couple, but Wiegel remembers those rides well. In his words: "In the car we talked a hundred and had a lot of fun." Madam President. These two sides, the principle and the self-reliative ring, perhaps the best part of the characterization Fred van der Spek gave himself of his political life in 2003 on request. "That you can be right without getting it," he said. With his death, the Netherlands loses an idealist of the old school. We commemorate Fred van der Spek with deep respect. I wish his family and other relatives much strength in the processing of this great loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. I would ask those present to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-19-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that you can express your condolences to the family members.
