ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Aruba, Mr Yrausquin, and his colleague, Mr Kock. They're in the President's Lodge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u2	I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I wish the new Secretary of State, Mr Knops....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, it's gonna be a lot of flying hours, so he's gonna need it from this side. In order to reduce that number of flight hours, I would like to say straight away that the position of the PVV on the other countries in the Kingdom has not changed, even if there is a new cabinet. We simply still want to get rid of the other countries as quickly as possible. The reasons are still the same, as in the budgets that my colleague Fritsma has discussed here in recent years. On the islands there is still much corruption, there is still far too much money going from the Netherlands and we have bought our past off in the meantime? The hard thing about that story is that the UN Charter is in the way. That Charter discriminates against the Netherlands and its citizens. The Netherlands must not decide independently whether the other countries should come from the Kingdom. No, only the other countries in the Kingdom can decide that for themselves. Since the Netherlands is always playing crazy Henkie, by continuing to donate, to take over debts, to jump with administrative advice, et cetera, et cetera, etc., the other countries will of course never want to leave the Kingdom. Maintaining corruption and bad governance is thus carried out through, via facilitated by the UN and the Netherlands keeps checking. Can the Secretary of State give his views on the relations within the Kingdom and indicate whether he is prepared to change anything about this unfair and undemocratic situation? By this situation, I mean that the Netherlands can't decide and the other countries can decide on in or out. Can the Secretary of State justify the duty of care that we have and, if so, what arguments? We can hardly make them up as PVV anymore. Is the Secretary of State prepared to relieve us of this duty of care and to relieve the Netherlands of Article 73 of the UN Charter? Recent events are pressing us with the noses on the facts. Hurricane Irma has done to the Caribbean and also to Saint-Maarten as part of the Caribbean and left a trail of destruction there. The Netherlands, on the basis of the Charter, but ultimately also on the basis of the Statute, is almost obliged to rebuild it. Of course, you also grant all ordinary people who work hard there a normal functioning country. It's just that the board doesn't want to succeed, because it's always corrupt. That building also happened in the last major devastation, about twenty years ago, by a hurricane. Prime Minister Marlin has stumbled. He refused to accept the conditions for help. He fell over that with his cabinet and the chaos is now complete there. How far does the Secretary of State go when the emergency aid that has been given in the meantime is exhausted? The Netherlands can, of course, go very far on the basis of the current Statute. Even the board can be taken over. As far as we are concerned, this is also an appeal to the people, the governor and anyone who still has an administrative function there: let Saint Martin take advantage of this emergency to overcome this blow with the entire population there. Now it's time for a change. There is no better time for change, no matter how harsh it is and no matter how bad it is to suffer such a disaster. Let the residents themselves be the change they want to see. The island has also been greatly helped by the Italian gamble/drug mafia there making the final battle. That is indeed the most helpful way of helping the common man there. But in the coalition agreement, we don't read much about the overseas kingdoms. The previous cabinet wanted, for example, to impose requirements on the residents of Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and Aruba. They had to meet conditions when staying in the Netherlands. None of this has happened, we know the outcome of these initiatives, but what will the new cabinet use to do about it? What's gonna happen to that idea? Or did it indeed die a silent death and remain so? Will the islands indeed, if it remains silently dead with these initiatives, be rewarded for their training and shattering behavior towards the Netherlands from the previous cabinet period? And are they indeed rewarded by the cabinet that is now in office? I'd like a clear explanation of that situation. Mr President, my final topic for this budget is Bonaire. Bonaire is actually the exception at the moment which confirms the rule of the overseas Kingdoms. There are forces on Bonaire who really want to move forward, forces who want to tackle the road network and vital infrastructure so that the island can make a leap towards a much better economy and therefore, of course, less dependence on the Netherlands. Those forces are bundled in the person of Rijna authority. I have spoken with this man and it is the first time that I have heard someone from that corner of the Kingdom asking for a more stringent approach. Someone wants to be treated more strictly; that's beautiful, isn't it? As far as we are concerned, that is special enough to take a closer look at the situation. In this context, I would like to stress the example of the road network, because that is what we are most concerned about, because it is the best way to promote tourism. To take the example of the road network, action groups have even recently placed flowers in all the holes of the road deck to draw attention to the neglect of the road network. The neglect of the road network in the way it happens on Bonaire is actually neglect of governance. To give another example: filling holes in the roads is currently more expensive on Bonaire than normal maintenance of healthy roads. That is, of course, a bad situation. Is the Secretary of State prepared, if the decision-making as in this case takes far too long so that you can talk about neglect, to temporarily give the authority a little more powers so that the plans he has to speed up the road network can be implemented? Those plans are there. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. That'll get me right to the end, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you. What do you say, Mr Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u5	I would like to put a question to Mr De Graaf. I'm in the back a little bit, so I always have to go forward and I wanted to do it at the end of his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u6	But you have strong and young legs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u7	I know, Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my question. There seem to be people with an Antillean background who vote for the PVV. Mr De Graaf's speech is very clear. He states that we should actually choke the residents of Saint Martin because the administration is no good. How is he going to explain that story to the people who love the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr President, Mr Kuzu did not listen carefully. I made a glowing argument, in which I stood up for the common man of St.Maarten and just gave up on the board of St.Maarten. I have asked them all to put their hands on it to turn this very moment into a moment of change, to decorruptise the island. That's a very strange word, but I'd really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u9	We agree on the fight against corruption, but is Mr De Graaf aware of this? At the moment, if you're jerking off the hands of Saint Martin, you're gonna take the people who now need help and support in the reconstruction of Saint Martin after a terrible drama like Irma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u10	I said what I said, and that is not the line Mr Kuzu is holding. I've just asked questions to the Secretary of State. In the second term or in the replies of the Secretary of State, we can discuss this further, because a lot is still unclear. There's no government at the moment. The Prime Minister has fallen with his government. The governor needs to solve cases now. The Secretary of State's up to it. As I just said, I've made a glowing argument for the common man.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u12	And that ordinary man would benefit from a little help and support. Then let me ask you very clearly and clearly: does the PVV think that we should currently deduct our hands from Saint Martin or that we should support and help the people and the country at this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u13	As long as the Statute is as it is, we have no choice. Of course, it's been like this for decades. Of course we have a different statute since 10-10-10, then it has changed, but as it is now, it is now. We can't change that overnight. We don't hate the common man. We don't say "choke tomorrow." We don't, uh...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u15	... but we do want to change the Statute in such a way that, in the long term, what I said in my speech is happening. I don't need to repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. This is the first budget treatment with its own ruler on Kingdom relations since 2012. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish him every success in this very beautiful and responsible position. I wish him a Caribbean warm heart and a Dutch cool head, because there is still a lot to do in the Caribbean islands. Hurricane Irma caused a disaster on Saint Martin. There is also damage on Saba and Sint-Eustatius, but the recovery there was quickly taken up. On St.Maarten there is a standstill. The Marlin cabinet is doing everything it can to put pressure on the Netherlands. Prime Minister Marlin does not even shy away from supporting the population. For let us be clear, especially for Sint-Maarten, that the Netherlands is ready with help and help money. But we do want to make sure that the money ends up in the right place. We have a duty to help our Kingsmen there where necessary, but we also have a duty to deal with the Dutch taxpayer's money. That is why the VVD believes that no reconstruction money can go to Saint Martin without proper supervision. The integrity chamber has already been agreed in the protocol between the Netherlands and Sint-Maarten; the protocol for cooperation by means of a mutual arrangement pursuant to Article 38 (1) of the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands, in connection with the establishment, establishment, operation and financing of an Integrity Chamber on Sint-Maarten. This is an appointment of May 24, 2015. Yes, Chairman, 2015. The integrity chamber is not suddenly part of the demands of the Netherlands to ensure that the money ends up in the right place. This is something the directors of Saint Martin themselves have agreed to. Those same directors of Saint Martin did everything they could not to enter that integrity chamber. That says everything about the drivers. Even the proposal to allow the integrity chamber to enter into force as a condition for the relief money from the Netherlands has been rejected by Prime Minister William Marlin. No, supervision of the Netherlands could be carried out on the money that came from the Netherlands, but the integrity room was not necessary. How bizarre. So people know that supervision must be good for all the money that comes from the Netherlands, but they do not want a good test for the local money. What does that say about the drivers on Saint Martin? At least the VVD has no confidence in it. And the good news, Mr. President, neither are the States of Saint Martin. The Marlin cabinet was sent away by a motion of censure. Now this director, who apparently does not care at all about the concerns of the people of St.Maarten, has issued new elections. Unbelievable. A large part of the population does not yet have a roof over their head and no address to go to. Should there be elections in three months? This remains the uncertainty for the inhabitants of St.Maarten and all those people affected by Hurricane Irma. As long as it is not clear what governance is going to implement the integrity room and border control, as far as the VVD is concerned, there will be no money for reconstruction to St.Maarten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u19	I heard Mr Bosman with the same story on the radio this morning. I don't understand something. He is right to say that there has been a motion of censure. In a growing, evolving democracy, you really want Parliament to control the government and send it home if it gets too bad. That's what's happening here. I would expect that the flag "Sint-Maarten" or "Sint-Maarten" flag at the VVD at the time when Parliament for the first time really found its backbone and said: the government has to go home. But what do I hear now? The VVD says: no, the Netherlands is just going to intervene on Sint-Maarten and is going to demand that the elections be postponed there. Is that really the position of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u21	There are two different things. Of course, the VVD was extremely happy that the States of Saint Martin have intervened. I've been very clear about that. I've been communicating about that openly. In fact, I've talked to a lot of State Members of Saint Martin about what options and what opportunities there are. I am very pleased that the States have intervened and that it is becoming a more mature democracy. I'm just really happy about that. But the next point is really different. Elections are being held. I just mentioned two things, but I can mention many more. The building of the electoral college is simply broken. The addresses are not known. We don't know where all these people are. People have left. The address file is not clear. In addition, there should be an opportunity for new parties to apply. You can't do that either. You are now saying that these are democratic elections at St Martin's where everyone has had every opportunity. That's not true. We can say that we have to hold those elections at all costs, but I think that is unwise. My assessment, with a wet finger, is that 90% of the population are not waiting for elections. He's waiting for help money. It's waiting for a spa in the ground, a roof over the head, a school that works, work and income, tourists coming back, just normal life. I am not going to say 'no elections' and I shall come back to that later, but I am calling for a year to be postponed. That gives everyone time to prepare themselves for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u22	If we take another country seriously, they will decide on their own decisions and their own choices when they issue elections and how they keep them. Mr Bosman mentions a number of things that are lacking there. We could then offer support and help on all sides to enable these elections to take place. If they decide, after consulting us, that they prefer to do so three months or six months later, that is excellent. But you can't start to influence democratically elected country on your own by saying: we know when it's okay for you to hold elections? We don't do that to any other country, do we? The Netherlands would not accept it either if a foreign country said to us: it is taking far too long with that outgoing government, we are going to put a little pressure on the Dutch Demissionary Government to get on with it. Why do we not support this process instead of pushing it back into the head again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u23	There's a difference. There is talk of a foreign country. That is a bit scandalous, because Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin are not foreign. They're not foreign countries. They are part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. They all have a Dutch passport. They're an autonomous country. I come to Mrs Van Tongeren's point. Of course, they have every right to choose what they want to choose, but that does not give me the obligation to deliver what they want. Then I have the right to say: I am a representative of the Netherlands, of the Dutch taxpayer; at the moment when you cannot give any assurance as to how you are going to regulate your supervision, which I see as a condition, I do not have to deliver that money. It cannot be that Saint Martin can choose what they want and that we must deliver in the meantime. That piece is completely regulated in the Staff Regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u24	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u25	Finally. So I hear the Netherlands say with a bag of money in hand: postpone your elections, otherwise that money will not come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u26	No. Much more important is that we have appointed the framework conditions. I have already said that these conditions do not just come to light. They've been there since 2015. Sint-Maarten himself thought that was important. In fact, you don't want to know how many reports there are about the concerns about public administration and the interwovenness of the underworld and the upper world. All these concerns have been noted. We can now say that there will be a lot of Dutch money without any kind of supervision, but then we all know what will happen. In fact, a lot of people on Saint Martin say, "Don't give that money to the government." That's just what they say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u27	That's another discussion. Mr Bosman has me and DENK all by his side when he says that there must be a form of supervision that does not put the money in the wrong hands but in the hands of the people. There's no discussion about that. Then we are talking about the instruments that the VVD wants to use. As Mr Bosman rightly says, it is an autonomous country. He says we're going to postpone the elections for a year and we're going to run the island ourselves for that one year. I read in De Telegraaf: that one year we take over the board, also within the framework of the instruments we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u28	No, you misread that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u29	I read that in De Telegraaf. I would like to see Mr Bosman explaining this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u30	Just to be clear, it is a good thing that people read it correctly, because that is not what it says. If everything fails and the country really goes down because of its own concerns, you could end up using Article 51. I did not say at all that we are going to take over that board. Again, I am very pleased with the new majority in Parliament. That new parliament has every right, according to the country's decision, to place an interim government. That choice is just on the land. I think that's very good and I support it. I also support doing that right, and not for three months, when you get another election and there is a three-month interim government that can't start anything but can only issue elections, of which we all know really, then we have to look at each other for a moment and see that they don't turn out to be anything at all. Really, that's gonna be a physical mess, because we just don't have the addresses to start with. So give the interim government a year by a new majority in parliament. That year doesn't come out of the sky, does it? It's been done once before on Saint Martin. That's no big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u31	It is quite special, also given the historical context, that people on Saint Martin also have the feeling: what is happening here; this is actually VOC time and does not fit in 2017. The moment the VVD designates the measure that we could proceed to one year of interim governance as has happened in the past, you send a signal. You could also send a different signal. You could ask how we can ensure that democratic elections are held in the foreseeable future instead of saying: no, it's just gonna be a mess. Could we not take a step in this together, in how we can help them organise democratic elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr Kuzu framet now gives me the same negative story as I have just kept. I find that very special. Because that is exactly the same as what I just said, exactly the same. The point is that you have to look carefully to see if you can arrange for that election. We all know that's not gonna happen in three months. Of course, they'll get backup to settle that. So you have to start thinking about when those elections can be held. Then as far as I'm concerned, you'll be talking in a year. That year doesn't come out of the sky. It has happened once before in the past on Saint Martin. So it's not a problem. In that year we have all the time to have a parliamentary majority form an interim government. They can all take care of that by themselves, all of them. The support they need, they get. That's what we've always said. So I find Mr Kuzu's negative frame to be inappropriate. It's not necessary, because I think we want the same thing in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u33	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u34	When it comes to that one year that would be necessary to organise elections, I really ask Mr Bosman where he gets that information. How does he come to the knowledge that we do not have the opportunity to organise democratic elections in that country within a shorter period of time? The second point is that the attitude is very close. I also speak a lot of people from Saint Martin. They say: well, the attitude with which the VVD played out in De Telegraaf does not reminiscent of the VVD but of the VOC.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u35	Well, then Mr. Kuzu can give me a list of the people he spoke to from St.Maarten, because I can give a whole list of people I just have daily contact with at any time, no matter where they are. This really isn't true, really. That's what my colleague Van Raak knows. When we are on St.Maarten, we walk quietly through the biggest disadvantaged areas. Without problems we talk to everyone and we can just be there, because we know what the worries are and that we are completely on the side of the people. I am sorry that we think that we will be able to conduct the discussion by putting each other in a somewhat negative light. That won't be necessary. Eventually, when we talk about why a year, I would say: think about what happened on Saint Martin, about what the damage is. 90% of the houses are damaged. The building of the electoral college itself is broken. Addresses are not known. And you're gonna tell me, three months from now, elections? With all due respect, I don't think we're gonna make it in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u36	I would like to know where this comes from from Mr Bosman. We have had the debate for weeks and there is a demand that Saint Martin should meet the two conditions. This decision was finally reached partly under pressure from its own people. Following on from what Mrs Van Tongeren has just said, the decision has been taken to hold elections. We didn't have to do that. A different decision could have been made. In any case, as a CDA, we consider it important that these demands remain and that they be met, but also that we can agree on them with a missionary government. Here's what I'd like to know from Mr. Bosman. The government itself can also come to what I call progressive insight. But I do think that we should leave it to the citizens of Saint Martin to decide and govern their own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u37	Agreed. The problem now is that this choice for elections was made by a government that was expelled because it did not support the interests of the people. A majority of Parliament has taken action to this end. You are now saying that you want to do business with a missionary cabinet that, according to the majority of Parliament, has demonstrated that it does not stand up for the people and that it is going to hold elections again. Everyone says that we shouldn't want to, because we don't make it in time. Now we can persevere and say: yes, fine. But the CDA agrees with the VVD that the conditions must be met. Then we will have a very difficult period, because we do not know whether we will do business with this cabinet, with an interim cabinet or with what comes after the elections. So you're building uncertainty. I wonder: should the Dutch cabinet do business with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u38	No, obviously. We want to do business with a missionary cabinet, not a missionary cabinet. That is why I would like to state that the decision has been taken. People want to hold that election. It may also be possible to have a progressive understanding of this, but it is up to the citizens and the government of Saint Martin to decide. We've been giving immediate emergency aid all these weeks. At least the CDA assumes that this emergency aid will not be closed within 24 hours. It is up to the Secretary of State to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u39	A brief response, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u40	Then I am very curious where the CDA gets the money, because that is important. Apparently, some of the money is now being deposited there, with the whole period simply being spent. Then I say, "Wait a minute, I think there were conditions attached to that." Is it emergency aid or reconstruction now? I think that is an important point. It is about ensuring good governance, but also about the rights of the people who live there. I repeat: if we do not even know where these people live, if we do not have addresses, then how can elections be held? You're just short-handed, aren't you? You're doing people a democratic deficit because they're not able to make use of that right to vote. Even new parties can't sign up to be on the list. So you deny new parties the right to participate in the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u41	Finally, Mrs van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u42	Yeah, because if we don't, we're gonna repeat ourselves. I still think it is up to the citizens and the government of Saint Martin to come to that moving insight when it comes to the best way of getting help quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr Kuzu just mentioned the fact that he spoke to a lot of people at St.Maarten and that they informed him that the attitude of the VVD reminded them of the VOC. I suspect that's a slip and that he means the WIC, because the VOC worked on the other side of the world. But aside from that... The undertone that speaks of this is that of a certain fear of a sort of colonialist attitude. Perhaps Mr Bosman could clarify this point a little further. What drives him to stand up for the people of Saint Martin in this way? Is that patronizing, as we know from imperialism? Or does it have other motives? I think that might clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you for this opportunity. Of course it's about the people of Saint Martin. I think democracy is very important. I don't think you should play games with that either. And that's what we're seeing now on St. Martin's Day. That's my big concern. I can repeat all the things that are going wrong at the moment, but I have already said that. We all know it's not gonna work. So I think two things are important. Good elections are crucial. I am not in favour of shipping jumping either; I will get to that in a moment. You don't have to reward that. Then you just have to hold elections. But there are so many problems on that island right now, that we should actually continue. You can see that there is a parliamentary majority that wants that too, which says: we want to go on; we want to work with the Netherlands. Then you have to ask yourself whether elections are currently the best solution for the people of Saint Martin. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u45	And what about the deadline for postponing these elections? You call it a year, but how am I supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u46	A year is arbitrary. I'll be very honest: that's arbitrary. But it gives enough time to get off to a good start with reconstruction, to calm people down, to put the electoral college in position, to prepare everything, to keep a census and to see where everyone lives. But if I can do it sooner, I don't have a problem with that either. That year stems from what we saw once before in Saint Martin, namely that elections were postponed for just one year when a parliamentary majority was lost in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u47	I am also concerned about the practical feasibility of short-term elections. Nevertheless, I believe that it is also the responsibility of Saint Martin to decide for himself wisely, including through control of their own parliament. But then I have the next question. Whether we have elections in the short or longer term, we are always dealing with a cabinet that will do its job. Does the colleague of the VVD recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u48	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u49	My question is then what we are going to do in the missionary phase. Can we at least see if we can agree with Saint Martin, with that outgoing cabinet, on that money, which is very much needed to enable the reconstruction of houses, food supplies and infrastructure? I found that the most annoying in the political crunch, which also arose on this side of the Kingdom because of the lack of clarity about what it actually meant to the inhabitants of Saint Martin himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u50	They have a missionary cabinet, but the States have the right to form an interim cabinet. They just have the right to form that. That is simply laid down in the country's decision. So that's what they're doing. I would not be surprised if, in the short term, there would be an interim cabinet based on a majority of the States. We can say that we are now doing business with William Marlin's outgoing cabinet, which has really shown that he has nothing to do with the society and population of Saint Martin. Or we give an interim cabinet based on a majority of states that will soon come the time and space to take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u51	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thanks, but I didn't need a lesson in state law. I needed to ask the simple question whether the VVD is prepared, in an interim phase, in a missionary phase, to see if they want to keep the conditions and reach agreements. That was my simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u53	Then there is the lesson of state law, because that is substantially different. That is fundamentally different! Then it helps a little if you know the statute, if you know the Land Decree a little bit. Then it just helps if you know how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u54	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u55	Well, finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u56	No, Mr. Chairman. This is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr President, I am simply speaking!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u58	No, but Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u59	No, I don't think this is appropriate! I have the right to answer. A question has been asked. I have a right to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u60	Mr Bosman, you made a comment on Mrs Kuik's question. That is why she has the opportunity to explain her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u61	I don't need arrogance. I ask a fair question, because you are advocating at least a year's delay. That means nothing will happen for the people of Saint Martin. I simply ask you: are you prepared to see what can happen in that year, naturally along the terms that we have set with each other? A simple yes or no suffices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u62	Arrogance? It wasn't said here: I don't need a lesson in state law. If you're talking about arrogance, the ball is at Mrs. Chicken's. I just answered the way I did it. It's important to know what's going on. Because if we start doing business with a missionary cabinet that will be gone in two weeks, four weeks, six weeks, what are those appointments worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u63	No, Mrs. Chicken. A question doesn't count if you don't speak in the interrupt microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u64	Then I shall repeat once again what state law means: there will then be an interim government based on the majority of the States of Saint Martin, which thus has the right to elect the government. You can do excellent business with that. That's what I say all the time. You can do excellent business with that. But if he left in three months after the election, what kind of business do you do? That is the crux of the matter. That's the problem. We create, or "we"... Saint Martin creates uncertainty about all possible forms of government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u65	On the basis of all kinds of suggestions made here and information that is not always transparent to me in the sense that people have been spoken to, and such a lot of different stories, I would like to ask Mr Bosman: if it is practically possible, will you support those elections? Because it may be possible, I would ask the Secretary of State to come to elections very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u66	A brief reaction. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u67	Look at what the people at the electoral college say. They're even surprised by the choice to write elections. They're not ready themselves. All these things are a problem. I didn't say there shouldn't be an election. I support elections. They will receive all the support and support, but there is now every interest in clarity. There will soon be an interim government based on a majority in the States. I'm really convinced of that. We can certainly do business with that, and we can do business with it for the longer term if we do not hold elections on an equal basis. If you put that perspective on elections one year, the interim government has every opportunity to get to work, without a cloud of elections hanging above it and everyone is busy with elections instead of a roof over their head, repairing a school, making a road.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u68	I would very much just like a concrete answer. Maybe it's also up to the Secretary of State to give that answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u69	You will be able to ask that in your own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u70	Yes. The circumstances are extreme, so perhaps we can act very quickly until the elections. Maybe it's possible. I'd like that information. If so, could you support these elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u71	I think, with all due respect to everyone, it would be unwise to start elections now. Yesterday we heard Minister of Finance Gibson. The shortages of St.Maarten in the coming period are enormous. What is needed is to repair the economy as quickly as possible, get to work with that economy as quickly as possible. If you say "we're gonna have elections in three months," it's gonna be quiet, nothing's gonna happen because people are in the middle of elections. Of course, Saint-Maarten decides for himself, no problem. Only, there's a consequence to that. The choice of Saint Martin does not give me the obligation to provide the reconstruction money if there is no supervision. So those are the choices that there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u72	Mrs. Diertens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u73	Does Mr Bosman not agree that, in the case of a country so badly affected, the reconstruction of the administrative situation is also part of the country's recovery?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u74	Yes. That's fine with me, too. They can make them all themselves. Only, the statute is as it is. I'll get to that in a minute, because I'm not entirely happy with that either. You say that it is an autonomous country and they must take care of it themselves. I'm fine with that. They'll have to do that on their own. They have to take care of it all on their own, and they can get support for that too. But the question is whether the holding of elections at the moment is in the best interest of, for the benefit of the people of Saint Martin. Then we can talk a little academically here, in the sense that it is very important for the formation of the state, but the point is that these people need to have a roof over their heads. That's what I think it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u75	We keep repeating ourselves. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u76	I can repeat it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u77	No. I'm going to see Mr Van Raak now. I also see Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Van den Berg, but you have already asked a few questions on the same subject. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u78	I am following this discussion with increasing amazement. I have to think about all those families that are now sitting on Saint Martin, without roof, literally, without job, without income. These people see us here discussing elections and when they should be held. People are more than tired of the political crunch. People do not care if elections are held when they are held. People on St.Maarten only care about one thing: the land must be built. And we have to do it now. That is a task that we have. I would like to call for this kind of political games and squabble to stop and see how we can start reconstruction. I have a question for Mr Bosman. The money is reserved, the plans have been made, I think I want to see them later, but how can we implement them? I ask Mr Bosman, and I will ask the others later: what options are there at the moment to start reconstruction? Does Mr Bosman have confidence in making firm agreements with Mr Marlin, who is still in office? Does Mr Bosman see opportunities to make good agreements with a possible new interim government, no matter how long it lasts? Or does Mr Bosman not see these possibilities? What possibilities does the Netherlands have? I hope that in this debate we can think about how we can help people. I ask Mr Bosman what possibilities he sees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u79	I would like to ask Mr Bosman whether he has these points in his speech. Then I would like to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u80	No, these points are not in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u81	Aren't these points? Then you may respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u82	My preference would be to do business with a cabinet that will sit for a long time. I'm not excited about William Marlin. I say that very civilisedly, but I think it became clear from my text. When we did the evaluation of all the support money from the last 30 years to the Antilles, we found that it was not always clear how that money had been spent. So I think it is crucial that I also look at the Secretary of State for the sake of project planning, with a clear purpose and a clear description. The funds earmarked for this purpose must also be earmarked. It must be as crystal clear as it can be. I do not need a budget containing EUR 10 million which is then suddenly gone and then we have to see afterwards that we have achieved a 30% result. That doesn't do me any good. If there's a hospital to build, it's the hospital. It's about roads. It's about the police station. It's about a school. It's about houses, whether it's social housing or repairing houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u83	I do not have much faith in Mr Marlin either. I do not have very much faith in Mr Heyliger either. That is a real problem. Nor do the people on the islands. They do not have very much faith either in Mr Marlin or in Mr Heyliger. But we're gonna have to do it. So I think we should start thinking about the process today. How can we organise this reconstruction? Does Mr Bosman agree with me that we should look very closely at who is going to carry out this reconstruction? I am very much in favour of having as much as possible done by local companies, with local employees. I also see that consultants, for example from KPMG, have jumped on the goat again and are trying to raise as much money as possible. I am so afraid that EUR 200 million or EUR 300 million will be spent and a lot will disappear in the pockets of accountants and the wrong politicians, while the people of Saint Martin will be left with an island that has not been rebuilt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u84	That wasn't a question, but good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u85	It's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u86	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u87	How we spend that money must be very transparent. This must be as transparent as possible. We don't need consultants, because everyone on the island knows what needs to be done. Here's what's important. It's a small island, so a construction company could be the brother of the person who tendered it. That's tricky. I have no problem with that, as we all know that the money is spent in that way. If we all know that the choice for the family member is the very best choice, because it has the best value for money and not because he happens to be the brother. That's the point. It must be as pure, clear and transparent as possible. It must be project-like and therefore be checkable and testable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u88	Thank you. I hear Mrs Van Tongeren has one simple question. Do you have one question, Mrs Van den Berg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u89	Let me just listen to Mrs Van Tongeren's question. Maybe I won't have to ask my question anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u90	Okay, then, Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u91	I would like to know quite clearly from the VVD whether it will only make the reconstruction money available if there is an interim government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u92	No. The case is even stronger: there must be supervision. There must be a clear agreement that there is supervision. And not just surveillance, but border control. These are the two conditions necessary to ensure that the fund is properly spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u93	So elections have nothing to do with whether or not the reconstruction money is released.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u94	That is another question, but I do have an answer to that. You can see that a William Marlin is nothing at all! Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. He does everything he can to thwart that border control, and in this way he frustrates what is needed for the people of Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u95	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u96	Then you can say, "Well, we'll just do it that way," but then we all know that the money isn't gonna come to the right place. Then I very much agree with my colleague from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u97	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr. Chairman. The role of the governor of Saint Martin is also a special one. He, in particular, should stand above the parties as a man and put the interests of the people first. Elections and delays can never serve that interest. Why didn't he stop the election? I'm asking the Secretary of State. Why didn't he offer the National Election Order to be destroyed by the National Council of Ministers? I am not against elections, precisely not, but why are the elections not postponed until January 2019? What's against that? Shipjumping must never be rewarded. I'm really convinced of that, but holding elections now is disastrous. Should we not note that there is bad governance here? If so, is the guarantee function of the National Council of Ministers not in question? What makes all this clear to me is that the Statute and the current organisation of the Kingdom are no longer of this time. Responsibilities are not in the places where directors are accountable. The Netherlands must not interfere, because the countries are autonomous. Until there is a disaster, because then the Netherlands must intervene, when we have no responsibility for it. In short, the Statute really has to be different. Now is not the time to fill that out, but the VVD will soon start working on that. There is now a new government in Aruba. I would like to congratulate and congratulate the new Prime Minister of Aruba, Mrs Evelyn Wever-Croes, on her new team. There is still plenty to do on Aruba as well. The finances are still out of order. The number of officials on Aruba's payroll is still completely out of proportion. The adjustments of the refinery are still a black box. The costs are not clear and the returns are certainly not. On Curaçao, too, a new cabinet will be set up, but there too, the challenges are great. The old Isla refinery would be completely renewed with Chinese help, but that story is getting more and more shady and unclear. The Netherlands has offered help in the negotiations with the Chinese. I ask the Secretary of State. So much for the countries we're not talking about, Mr. President. Now the islands that do belong to the Netherlands. This is something I really need to get off my chest about. We have done a lot of good there with a new tax office, a new fire station and a new prison, but what have we really made better for the people? Health care is better and education is on the rise. That's good, and I'm proud of that. But economically, it's still not great. In 2010 we agreed with the BES islands that we would bring them to a basic level in terms of infrastructure and other matters, so that they could continue to maintain them themselves. Unfortunately, very little has come of that. Social housing does not come off the ground either. Of course, there has to be good governance in the corporation on Bonaire, but that has to be settled. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Without failing anyone, I would like to mention here the former deputy of Bonaire, Nina den Heijer. This steadfast lady was really working day and night to make it better for the people of Bonaire. The failure to get off the ground of social housing was unacceptable to her and the VVD agrees with her. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to look at this as a matter of priority. Good housing, including for the poorest, is a step out of poverty, but economic development, particularly in agriculture, deserves all the attention. By growing food on Bonaire the food becomes cheap and there is also equal work. Should there still be technical support for this, such as energy-efficient greenhouses from my other portfolio, I know that there are even energy-producing greenhouses. I'm just coming to see Mr. De Graaf. He was very excited about Bonaire. I have to disappoint him anyway, because looking at the list of countries and islands that are doing well, I get to Saba. Saba's doing really well. There is good governance, there are good administrators, and I dare say that it is hard on the way to becoming the best regulated country within the Kingdom. However, we have always said that they deserve the right to have more control: more own administration and use of their own funds. Does the Secretary of State agree with me and how could that be implemented? And then there's son of a bitch, Statia. We know who that is, and we also know of inappropriate governance, but I also note that we have not always properly applied the rules of the BES Act here in the Netherlands. Perhaps this is a time to put the clocks on Statia right and together to ensure that they too will get the finances in order and be able to form sound governance. How does the Secretary of State view this? I'm rounding up. The government agreement states the role of the State Secretary: "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is given a stronger coordinating role including the corresponding budget." How will the Secretary of State complete this coordinating task and what measures does he intend to take? There is really enough on the board of this secretary of state and it is not difficult to get a hot head as a Dutchman and a cold heart when you see the problems. Therefore, my memory to the Secretary of State: I wish you a warm heart and a cool head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u99	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, welcome the new Secretary of State and look forward to good cooperation. I was thinking of an ordinary woman on St.Maarten and her family, who has a diner or a small souvenir shop, who saw the hurricane come over her, who might have an illegal worker in the summer season to help with the heavy work in that season and now tries to look to the future for her and her children. On these points, I agree with Mr Bosman: how can you ensure that ordinary people on that island are given a good future perspective on Saba and Saint-Eustatius, to a lesser extent? I think that things such as threats and powerplay from the Netherlands and exerting pressure on the germinating parliamentary democracy on the islands are absolutely not helpful. What is helpful is dealing with whatever government is in there. With us too we sometimes have a period with a missionary cabinet and also with us a cabinet can fall. You're only dealing with the governments that sit there. A step back, in which the Netherlands more or less takes over the power on Sint-Maarten, seems to me no one helpful at all. Which can be helpful: if people want elections, can we offer help? I would also like to know that from the Secretary of State. Are all the things that Mr Bosman has listed, some of which we might be able to support if asked? Perhaps the people of Saint Martin will then discover in such a conversation about it that perhaps they should postpone it for three months. That seems to me to be a much more productive way of working together than when a Dutch parliamentarians from here calls: that other autonomous country should only postpone its elections for a year, otherwise I do not know whether the aid money will come. This new Secretary of State is therefore unenvyable. The relationships were already quite complicated and have now become a lot more complicated, but that also means that he can shine by ensuring that the calm comes back on the islands and that on the islands there are also opportunities for everyone to build a good life. It becomes much more complicated to clean up the unique Caribbean nature, the mangrove forests and coral reefs, and the ports. This nature has an intrinsic value, but it is also a great source of income because of recreation. I wonder whether the Secretary of State will see room for this in the budget and whether we will get another letter of amendment, because I do not see the corresponding posts in the budget for the other parts of reconstruction as well. We are also curious how the Secretary of State intends to draw the islands on a higher greener level, which I have just mentioned, but also on a higher social plan. We have been having discussions for years about an acceptable social minimum. I'm curious to see how this Secretary of State looks at that. We want to ensure that the division between the poor and the rich on the Caribbean islands, whatever its origins, becomes smaller rather than growing. Furthermore, in a procedural meeting I asked some questions about hurricanes from Sint-Maarten that arrive both on Curaçao and to a lesser extent also on Aruba and in the Netherlands. There are also some graduation candidates, who are very eager to finish their school. I would like to draw particular attention to this group. Can we not have them here graduating from high school if, understandably, they do not succeed on Saint Martin's Day, so that these young adults, these kids, can continue their school career? What else can we do for people who come this way without income or suitable housing? The letter I received says, "Everyone is responsible for it." Of course, I understand that, but if we hope that never happens, then all of Rotterdam will be wiped out by a huge explosion in the Botlek and all Rotterdammers will come to Amsterdam, then we will really do something to ensure that children, if they are there, can go to school, that there is something to eat and that there is accommodation. I do not know if it is true, but I hear from people that in the Bijlmer flats there are really heavy double habitation, that it is difficult to get registered in the Netherlands and that it often lacks income. I now come to a variation on the same theme. The islands are also catching many Venezuelan refugees at the moment. Those refugees do not really receive a warm welcome in the Netherlands either. As soon as they come to the other islands, we call them "illegals." How does the Secretary of State view the different asylum procedures on the islands? If I understand correctly, most of them end up in Curaçao or Aruba. How are these procedures going? Can we contribute to that? Do they need to be improved? What can we do with that? Former Minister Plasterk made a commitment to my colleague Bram van Ojik that reconstruction would also focus on sustainability. If you're going to rebuild hurricane-resistant, you can look at materials to use and how the housing is, so you won't lose a huge power with all those buildings air-conditioned. There are serious social problems. The cost of living has increased considerably. Medical supplies haven't been restored. And the tourist economy is shut down. We had a discussion earlier about the social minimum. How does the Secretary of State view this? And how do we proceed with the implementation of the Paris Convention for the whole area? In Dutch municipalities there are all kinds of possibilities for individual homeowners but also for social housing to look at sustainability. There is a pride of possibilities, from energy cooperatives to ISDE+ and opportunities to salad. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that these opportunities are also available in the Caribbean Netherlands, so throughout the Kingdom? Should we not allow the rest of the Kingdom, the non-continental part, to benefit from the favourable economic developments? For years the increase in the so-called free allowance has been stopped, because we had a crisis. Now that the economic circumstances lend themselves to it, the GroenLinks seems to be high time to follow the recommendations of the Spies Commission, which has examined the consequences of the changed political relationship, and to enable the BES Islands to finally make more work on what they think is necessary, and to adjust the free allowance upwards. I would also like to draw attention to the following. Worldwide we have had a very big campaign with MeToo. On previous work visits to the islands, we have also heard a lot about sexual violence against mainly women and girls, and to a lesser extent boys and men. Both the shelter and the position of the women there are vulnerable. Everyone knows everyone. Much more than in the Netherlands, things are kept hidden and indoors. Could there be some way of getting back to that from the Netherlands? There's something about shelter on the different islands, a kind of stay-of-my-body structure. There's also something about abortion and care. But I understand that this is really not at the level we would like. In conversations with female drivers on the islands I discovered that the women who are now drivers there have almost all done one top class that, I think, was organized by the Netherlands after 10-10-10. As several colleagues have said, the administrative quality can be improved there. It can go up in all countries, including the Netherlands, but also there. And we may be able to contribute to that by looking again to see if we can pay attention to the cultivation of good female administrative top talent. I have one final comment, a little in line with what Marianne Thieme always says about the bio-industry, about the disaster refinery Isla. That big problem has still not been solved. There are good plans. I hope this Secretary of State will certainly speak to GreenTown as well. Those are entrepreneurs in Curaçao who are trying to reduce the environmental disaster and get back to business in the port. The nuisance caused by Isla seems to be very close to human rights violations. I hope the Secretary of State will look into the living conditions there. Because we have taken away our own soldiers under the smoke of Isla, but the locals are still under it. I am done with my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u101	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u102	I can see 17 seconds left on my clock here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u103	Yes, but you also have a second term. But it's up to you. I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u104	So I didn't get my speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u105	It's always there. Mr Bosman has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u106	Perhaps you could arrange this separately later. I have a question for Mrs Van Tongeren from GroenLinks about the money for the reconstruction fund. Does GroenLinks think that money should simply be given, regardless of the situation? Or is that subject to conditions as far as GroenLinks is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u107	Asking the question is answering it. Of course, you don't have to put a bag of money anywhere, anywhere, without any terms and conditions. You shouldn't do that in Geertruidenberg. But I do not think that the condition should be that they should or should not hold elections and should not decide for themselves whether there is a outgoing government, a missionary government or an interim government. I don't think that's a fair condition. Furthermore, I fully agree with Mr Van Raak that it is important to pay close attention to the fact that assignments are done locally, but are not so big that there is a lot of work left on the bow. I am also in favour of ensuring that external agencies are used as efficiently as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u108	I am very happy with that, but that means that the conditions that the Netherlands has set are also the conditions for GroenLinks to provide the money for reconstruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u109	The conditions laid down so far by the government are certain. But I cannot agree to all the conditions whereby "we" was said by the representative of the VVD Group. In my colleague's speech there were several conditions, including that the elections should not be held within three months. I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u110	I have a small clarification question about education. I'm very concerned with the people and children there. They should be able to finish school. If it is possible that the children on the islands will be helped and the teachers will be taken care of, is that what you prefer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u111	Of course, yes, if that's possible there. I understand that this has also been the subject of general consultations on education. Then it was said that it's so stressful and that housing is so bad, that it's complicated for a final candidate. I remember graduating myself, and my son did. It's very complicated to try to pass your final exam when the situation around you is really bad. If so, of course it would be preferable. Maybe it can be done on one of the other islands. But at least we must actively try to ensure that all final candidates are in a situation where they can prepare for that examination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u112	Thank you, Mrs Van Tongeren. I now turn to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u113	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u114	Yes, Mrs. Van den Berg. Speaking time is being negotiated. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u115	But I'll start now, because my clock is ticking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u116	Yeah, I'll keep an eye on that. You have the floor and we'll start over. You have eight minutes before the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u117	Okay. Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, our congratulations to the Secretary of State. We wish him every success in this portfolio. The connection of the Netherlands with the Caribbean is beyond question for the CDA. We really attach great importance to constructive cooperation with the Caribbean Netherlands and the autonomous countries of the Kingdom. Mr. Chairman. My colleague from the Christian Union, Stieneke van der Graaf, cannot be present for this debate today and I would therefore like to raise two issues on behalf of her. The first is the position on the issue of trafficking in human beings. We know from various studies that trafficking in human beings on the islands is a major problem. It's also a priority in the D.A.'s office. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether there is progress in the fight against trafficking in human beings? The second point is the position of children. One way to express the value of the link with the Caribbean Netherlands is to strive to improve the level of welfare and well-being. We cannot accept that there is a big difference between the children who grow up in the European Netherlands and in the Caribbean Netherlands. We therefore ask the Secretary of State how he intends to achieve a lasting improvement in the situation of the children there in the coming years. The expenditure on children's rights on the basis of the Van Laar/Segers amendment comes to an end in this budget. This was for the Christian Union. Next, as a CDA, we would like to ask what possibilities the Secretary of State sees for spending on improving the position of children. We would also like to ask what the position of the children is in all material damage in Saint Martin. That has just been asked by colleague Van Tongeren. Is that where all the kids go to school again? All good things come in threes. We therefore have three themes that we would like to endorse: organisation, self-sufficiency and financial impetus. Organization first. The government agreement stipulates that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be given a stronger coordinating role, including the corresponding budget. This is urgently needed as far as we are concerned. The Spies Committee pointed to the fragmented and sometimes contradictory approach of the Dutch side. The Committee notes that BZK had no powers from which this Ministry could direct Dutch policy, let alone that BZK could enforce policy adjustments from an integral vision. Can the Secretary of State explain how the strengthening of this coordinating task will take place and where he believes there are still no powers to carry out that coordinating task properly? Can he give us a hint of the veil when it comes to his integrated vision of Dutch policy for the BES? Does the Secretary of State also pay attention to nature? Does the restoration of nature have a place in it? Coordinated efforts are needed, for example in relation to developments in Venezuela. Can the Secretary of State outline the current state of affairs? We would also like to have clarity about the prisoners from Sint-Maarten who are temporarily staying in the Netherlands. What are the arrangements? Can the Secretary of State indicate the state of play regarding the dispute settlement that would still be agreed? The Spies Committee notes that given the small scale and limited capacity available, it is sometimes difficult to guarantee quality of administration and the associated administrative organisation. It's a true word that President Obama once quoted: "If you think education is extensive, try ignorance." We read that Bonaire has a training programme for young officials. Is an internship in the Netherlands already a permanent part of that? If not, is the Secretary of State prepared to do so and to include other young officials in this training programme? Then there's the financial impulse. The CDA frees resources in the coalition agreement to address regional pain points, including in the BES islands. Can the Secretary of State indicate how and under what conditions the islands are entitled to these funds? The BES islands often fish behind it when there are resources for the municipalities. Do the different ministries also have the BES islands in mind, when they think of municipalities? If there are additional resources for nature and people or culture, let us make ourselves strong for the BES islands. Then theme three: self-sufficiency. It is well known that poverty is still a major problem on the islands. Sound housing is the basis for combating poverty. Just now the name of Nina den Heyer was already mentioned by colleague Bosman, as the one who made a strong commitment to social housing on Bonaire. 500 homes require a guarantee of 36 million. It's been discussed for years. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to implement this guarantee now? The cost of living is now very high, because many products need to be imported. If the islands became more self-sufficient, one of the roots of poverty could be tackled. My colleagues Amhaouch and Geurts have already asked questions about this at the beginning of this year. Is the Secretary of State prepared to bring together the BES Islands and the University of Wageningen to realise their own food supply on the islands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u118	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u119	We have lived together for many centuries, but we often misunderstand each other. We are one kingdom, but with two breasts, with two mentalitys. That makes our culture very rich, but our politics very difficult. Saba and Statia were hit hard by Hurricane Irma, and Saint Martin was destroyed. After this terrible disaster, there seemed to be a new future for the Kingdom. The Netherlands tried to help where it could; with people and resources, from military to the Red Cross. The Dutch collected money and organized actions, because we wanted to help our kingdommen. But this new sense of connectedness was destroyed by a sickening politics. The government of Sint-Maarten piled up error, but the Netherlands was always blamed. Dutch soldiers who offered help were accused by Prime Minister Marlin. The people of Sint-Maarten desperately need help; they now need help and want the Netherlands to come and help. People's anger also got a vote in parliament, which agreed to the terms and dropped Marlin, and that's good news. New elections are due to take place in early January. That is bad news in these circumstances for all those people who do not want a political squabble over the next three months, but a roof on their house, an income and a job. At St Maarten there is currently no government with which we can do good business and with which we can really start reconstruction. Following Marlin's departure, does the Secretary of State see, under the current circumstances, possibilities for a national government on the island that does want to cooperate? This beautiful island needs to be built. The economy needs to get back on track, because the tourist season is on the doorstep and the island cannot welcome its guests in this way. We are facing an almost impossible task. I would therefore like to congratulate Mr Knops on his appointment as Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u120	I have a question for Mr Van Raak. As I said in my interruption to Mr Bosman, I am also concerned about the timing of the elections. Mr Bosman wants to move the elections forward for at least one year and whether there is an interim government or a outgoing government, he does not want to make any arrangements at all. I do not think it would be wise to slam that door completely if there are possible arrangements, in the interests of the people who have now been hit on Saint Martin. I would like to hear from Mr Van Raak how he looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u121	I do not know whether Mr Bosman said exactly, but he will be able to explain that himself later. Mr Marlin has left and has held elections. He's actually done a trick with that, too. There is now a new majority. I don't know if I have the same confidence in every politician. It is up to this new coalition to consider whether these elections should be organised. Thank you for this question, because I am now asking the Secretary of State if there are any technical possibilities to cancel these elections. Or are they gone? If they are no longer there, we really have a problem, namely that the politicians on the island are going to fight for the next three or four months, and are going to fight for everything except reconstruction and people. Then we have a problem, because we as the Netherlands, I too, feel that responsibility to start reconstruction now. Then we have to have a discussion in this Chamber about how we're going to do it. My great preference is to do so together with the government of Saint Martin as much as possible. And I don't care what government that is, whether it's an interim government, a red government, a blue one or a green one. I don't care. The only condition we have is that it's a government we can make agreements with. If it is a government with which we cannot agree, I also think that we should start reconstruction, but then we should consider to what extent we should assume that responsibility within the framework of the Kingdom itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u122	I agree with Mr Van Raak. If you are in favour of moving those elections backwards anyway, I think you should also have the willingness to at least engage with an interim government. I asked the VVD for a simple yes or no answer to this and I got unclear, but I thought no. I can hear you say clearly, however, that my conclusion is that you do think that we should enter into a dialogue with the Secretary of State in order to see whether we can reach good and hard agreements in a missionary or interim phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u123	We cannot help build a country without being in talks with a government, with any government. But it's not Belgium or Germany. It is an autonomous country in our Kingdom, where we have a specific responsibility for good governance. That is why it is my great preference to do this in good consultation, in good cooperation with the government. With Marlin this will be very difficult, with Heyliger by the way. So I hope very much that we can make agreements with that government. Then we'll have to check these appointments carefully. I am afraid that within the framework of the Kingdom we must also draw a number of tasks towards us. We must also have the courage to have that discussion today. Otherwise, in February, the people of Saint Martin will still be without a roof, without a job and with no income.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u124	A question had been asked through Mr Van Raak to Mr Bosman and I see that Mr Bosman now wants to respond. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u125	Yes, because the representation of my words is not the right one. Of course, I never said that we should wait until the elections were in order to do business in a year's time. The problem is that if you hold early elections, it's getting more and more insecure who you're doing business with. And then you're gonna have to wait and see who you're gonna end up doing business with. That is actually the same as what Mr Van Raak says. So I never said we should wait a year because we don't know who we're dealing with. We just want to do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u126	That's obvious. Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u127	I am very pleased with your comment, Mr Van Raak, that we are very anxious to help people. We in the Netherlands also have a duty to help together with Curaçao and Aruba Sint-Maarten on the basis of the consensus legislation. You're talking about the tasks we fill out. Can you indicate the tasks involved? Without drawing everything to ourselves right now, what tasks can we design together with Curaçao and Aruba?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u128	I am going to ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with me that the reconstruction of Saint Martin cannot wait. I want to have access to the plans and also to the performers and I also want to know if they have been screened. I see a number of things that are a real threat. William Marlin said, "Send the money to my account, and I'll take care of it." So we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u129	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u130	But what we're gonna do is see who we can work with. If it is up to me, that is as much as possible with companies on the island itself and as much as possible with the people on the island. Therefore, this border surveillance is also so important so that we can also help people to work and we can create jobs and incomes. What I am opposed to is that, for example, KPMG and other consultants, who are already pre-sorting, are going to say: give me the money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u131	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u132	The Netherlands rightly imposes requirements for financial supervision and good border control. I think these things really need to be held in their own hands, otherwise the chances of it falling into the wrong hands are very high. I told you, KPMG's ready. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to ensure that KPMG is not involved in the implementation. In the politically heavy weather over Saint Martin we sometimes seem to forget our own islands. At Statia we saw the worst old politics when Clyde van Putten cried out that soldiers would be killed on the island and would be dragged burning through the streets. But we also saw hope, because the people at Statia made it clear that they no longer accept this kind of politics, such as the impressive petition of the only 18-year-old Lenaria Brown. On the proud Saba people have tried to repair the damage as much as they can themselves, but still much remains to be done to build the island and prepare it for the future and to better protect it from new hurricanes. Because if these islands are destroyed in this way every so many years, we must also realise that these islands become virtually uninhabitable. Especially low-income people have been hit hard. Can the Secretary of State promise that, in the reconstruction of Saba and Statia, special attention will be paid to low-income people under the minimum standard of living whose homes and jobs are broken? The Secretary of State also received a letter from Saba's board. The island has shown for many years that it can do business itself better than all these ministries here in The Hague. Is the Secretary of State prepared to enter into early consultations with Saba in order to allow more autonomy for this beautiful island? Saint-Maarten must be rebuilt not only physically but also politically. In 2015, this Chamber adopted a motion from the SP and the VVD for a major investigation into the connection between the underworld and the upperworld on the islands, especially between politics and the gambling industry. This investigation seems to be successful, also in view of the conviction of former Prime Minister Schotte of Curaçao, the trial of Saint Martin's Mafia boss Corallo in Italy, but also the major clean-up at the central bank. I am pleased that the Secretary of State will make EUR 48 million available over the next four years to continue this investigation. Compliments. But can the Secretary of State ensure that the role of Dutch banks and Dutch financial advisors will be investigated in this study, in particular the role of KPMG? If we're gonna tackle corrupt politicians, we're gonna have to roll up their financiers first. I have asked many dozens of questions about the illegal gambling industry from Curaçao in the past. Minister Plasterk forwarded it to the government of Curaçao, but my questions have never been answered. Mr Knops understands that I cannot do my job as a Member of Parliament. Is the Secretary of State prepared to urge Curaçao to answer those questions? It's about 80, but they need to be answered. I also have a job in the Kingdom. Local media play a major role in controlling power on the islands. Those local media have also been hit by the hurricane. On Saint Martin, they now deserve our support. I started by saying that we've lived together for many centuries, but often we don't understand each other very well. I told my story here today, but I also wanted to tell the story from the other side. I therefore asked the cartoonist of the Daily Herald to make a mockery, which was published today as an advertisement in the newspaper as some kind of support to the newspaper. This has become him, Mr. Chairman. This is Annemiek's vision, the cartoonist of the Daily Herald. Here we see a sign: reconstruction of Saint Martin. And here we see a somewhat balding man, with a long finger pointing at Saint Martin. He clearly hasn't been to visit, because this man is quite long, so that may be disappointing with the visit. I'd like to give this cartoon to the Secretary of State through the messenger. I think this is the second one that appeared about him in the paper. I also hope for a good cooperation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I shall now go to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to welcome the new Secretary of State and wish him every success in carrying out his duties. D66 has repeatedly stressed the importance of one ministry being main responsibility for preventing fragmentation. I therefore encourage the fact that this Secretary of State is given a strong coordinating role and can devote much of his time to this. In the light of recent events, this is also particularly relevant, but it has already been shown. After all, everyone remembers the penetrating images of the enormous damage that Hurricane Irma has done and the stories of the people who have touched us all in the heart. Sint-Maarten, but also Saba and Saint-Eustatius have been severely affected. Over the last few weeks, our military has worked hard to restore important buildings and infrastructure, to make roads passable and to help with repairs, so that people have a roof over their heads again. But there's still a lot of work to be done. The current political situation at St Maarten creates additional uncertainty. The Secretary of State has indicated that he hopes that this situation, the removal of Prime Minister Marlin, will not delay reconstruction. I too hope that we will be able to prevent this delay. After all, a majority of the Sint Maarten Parliament wants to accept the conditions for the recovery fund. The population in particular should not suffer from this. Can the Secretary of State comment on the current political situation? Are there any clear contact partners on St. Martin's? The conditions for financial support are the establishment of an integrity room and the strengthening of border surveillance. Appointments about that integrity room aren't new. How are we going to get these off the ground? The conditions for guaranteeing the fund need to be further developed. How is the amount necessary determined? Who gets access to that money? How does the control work? The aim is to ensure that the money goes where it is most needed. I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. The hurricane has had a huge impact, but mostly starting over also offers opportunities to improve things. How do we make a future hurricane less devastation? In an article in Trouw four experts spoke. They mentioned relatively simple and inexpensive solutions to make homes hurricane-proof. They also made a plea to make the island self-sufficient. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? Of course, I can send him the article. For the islands of Saba and Sint-Eustatius, our special municipalities, we have a different responsibility. How's the reconstruction going there? Other issues are also important for the future of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. Together we are one kingdom, so as far as I am concerned: equal opportunities and equal rights. It's gotta be obvious. During this budget debate, I would like to focus on economics, sustainability, children's rights and education. Mr. Chairman. On the islands of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, the priority is to improve the economic perspective, including by strengthening infrastructure and reducing poverty, according to our coalition agreement. You will therefore not be surprised that I can wholeheartedly endorse these words, but I would like to hear what concrete measures we can expect in the coming years. The cost of living is high, so many people live in poverty. Fresh food is expensive because of the dependence on imports. Local production could reduce costs. This is good for employment and health. Are you willing to explore with your colleague and the island councils which sectors are likely to produce locally and sustainably? The economy can also use a boost in the autonomous countries. A trade mission could perhaps be a nice driver, an opportunity to share knowledge and skills and to develop contacts with South America. A ruler could visit the islands with companies and knowledge institutes in the wake, with the aim of exploring the possibilities of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom as a hub of South America. I would like to hear if the Secretary of State wishes to look at these possibilities. Mr. Chairman. Tourism is an important source of income. The beautiful nature, beautiful beaches and coral are reasons for a visit. Experts warn that the coral is under threat. Diversity and size are decreasing. There has been talk of setting up a task force. What's the status here? There are also opportunities for sustainability in two other areas. Does the Secretary of State agree that the Isla refinery must meet the minimum emission requirements as soon as possible? Does the Secretary of State want to make this clear so that we can start again with a clean slate? The islands have many opportunities to generate renewable energy. For example, Saba can extract energy from the difference between hot and cold water. Is this new Secretary of State prepared to investigate these possibilities? The energy bill of islanders is now disproportionately high due to its scale. Mr. Chairman. I come to my last and perhaps most important issue: children's rights and education. Using data registration, we can monitor how the children are doing. But the fact that the registration is not in order became painfully clear. Children were evacuated while it was not clear where they were housed and where they left off. A good administration was missing. The previous minister said that it is essential that this data registration is brought up to date. I'd like to get an update at this point. Does the Secretary of State also wish to use his role as a coordinating director to improve children's rights? During the children's rights tour in the Caribbean Netherlands, children and young people indicated that the quality of education is insufficient and that opportunities for further growth are lacking. First of all, children should not go to school behind schedule. I ask the Secretary of State to confirm that part of the amount released for early and pre-school education in the government agreement will also be made available to children in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. They too are entitled to a good start. Who oversees the use of this money? Can an existing infrastructure be used for this purpose? Schools are often insufficient in quality. There's a lot of care students. How is the necessary quality improvement monitored? Attention should also be paid to the opportunities for growth. In the coalition agreement money is made available for technical vocational education, for example. How will this be spent in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom? Those who know how to move to higher education should be encouraged and not discouraged. Nevertheless, many examples of obstacles reach me. Many universities use a system of decentralised selection. How is it ensured that young people living on the islands do not start directly with 1-0 disadvantage, because they cannot physically be present in the Netherlands? I also hear that students from the Caribbean don't get help looking for a room here because they're just Dutch, but they can't claim a Dutch health insurance and they only get a bsn number on arrival in the Netherlands, so they can't arrange anything in advance. In short, double standards are applied to discourage participation in higher education. I deeply regret that. That is why I would like to see all the bottlenecks identified so that an integrated solution can be found afterwards. I'd like a response. Just a little point. Only recently, the Constitution has been amended to allow residents of Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba to vote for the Upper House. But in order to be able to choose, information must also be in order. As far as I am concerned, looking back at broadcasts of public service broadcasting via website or app is one of them. I've heard that the NPO has arranged this for Bonaire by now. That's nice, but does that also apply to the other special municipalities? In order to be well informed, public documents should be made accessible. Now they are often only available in Dutch. That is why I would argue in favour of making government documents available in English and, preferably, in Papiaments when they are relevant to the islands. I'll come to a conclusion. I look forward to a pleasant cooperation with this Secretary of State and hope that cooperation within our Kingdom with all the island councils and our leaders in the BES islands will be greatly improved with joint efforts. Thank you. Masha danki!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u135	We were just having a little interrupting debate about whether I would support it if elections could be arranged earlier or in those three months. Now I have a letter from the central polling station of St. Maarten, which simply says: that's impossible; dates are not reached, I don't have the equipment, the infrastructure is not right, the mail is not cooperating, the police are not able to supervise. Are you therefore in favour of postponing the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u136	I think that if it is really impossible we should see if we can somehow get this aid going and we should go for aid to these countries because the people are waiting for it. In the final case, it should be possible to postpone elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u137	It's not just a letter. This is a letter from the head of St. Maarten's Central Voting Office. That's what writes: this just can't be done. Then we can say: apparently this gentleman doesn't understand how it works, maybe we should give some more help from the Netherlands, then it will work. But he just says it doesn't work. Then we have to say delay, because this isn't gonna work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u138	I think the facts may be correct as you put them, but I can imagine that there are other possibilities in the reconstruction process, including the administrative construction of the government, but we are now also helping to help those people who are so much there. I think that we can guarantee that the money will end up in the right place, because there is an integrity room and we can check it out. I would be very sorry if elections were postponed and we could not help people with that. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Does he see any way we can solve this problem? It is not enough simply to find that administrative and administrative matters are not good. It is very important that these things are good, but I am also trying to look at solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u139	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u140	A link is now being made: if you don't hold elections, you can't give help. I find that very special, because I think I have explained this five times. This is from the central polling station of Saint Martin! That has nothing to do with conditions. They simply note that it is also impossible to hold those elections in terms of data, in terms of infrastructure, in terms of support. Then you can't insist here that maybe with a little help you can do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u141	I didn't say "with a little help, it's gonna work." I have said that we must guarantee that integrity room, that we must make sure that the coast guard is in order, that we must ensure that there is control over where the funds end up, and that we must also see if we can get these elections going properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u142	I would like to ask a question about that. I get it, of course, but the polling station on St. Martin says it can't be done. They don't say: we're gonna take another look and we're gonna talk to the Netherlands. No, they say it can't, it just can't, we don't even know where to send our ballots yet. Then D66 can say that the Netherlands must help. I very much agree with that, but in fact we, the Netherlands, would have to organise the elections. Isn't that very far-reaching in that country? Can Mrs. Dierten understand that a lot of people think of Sint-Maarten: The Netherlands is now organising the elections, but why is my roof not being repaired, why do I not have a job and why do I have no income?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u143	Well, I wanted to avoid the latter, because my priority is just to help those people. I do not want to allow this to depend on all kinds of things which are of course absolutely very important and which are also necessary to ensure that there is a good and honest administration there again. I also find it very brave that a large part of Parliament has sent away its own government or Marlin. I'd really like to see some help on that. What can't be done, it can't be done, but it can not be done at the expense of helping the people sitting there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u144	Okay, but then it's clear. Then the priorities are different from what it seemed in this debate. Then we, most of the parties in this House of Representatives, think almost all of us, think that the Netherlands should start helping to rebuild the island first. Something must be built first and then it is also important that elections are held as soon as possible, but that is the order. If we agree on that, we can come a long way this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u145	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u146	Thank you. I will now go to Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u147	Mr. Chairman. I had still considered asking the Secretary of State to make a statement prior to this debate on the political situation at St.Maarten, the timing of the elections and everything related to them, because it now dominates the entire debate. That is right, because it is also extremely important, but there are many questions that we cannot answer either. That is on his plate and we are very curious about that. The people of Saint Martin, Saba and Saint Eustatius have been severely affected. Lost homes, food shortages, schools and roads destroyed. They must be able to ensure that everything is done to build their country as quickly as possible. No political hassle, no politicians as enemies, but as allies and unfortunately they can't count on it, and that's why they're tired of it. A new political party is already in the making: No Politics. That says enough. I too am concerned about the election. It has already been visually explained that there are a lot of practical objections to achieving them and at the same time it is a responsibility of St.Maarten himself. I ask the Secretary of State how we deal with this paradox. What role does he have to play in this? To the left or to the right, whether the elections are fast again, not my preference or that it lasts any longer: we will always have to deal with a government that will have to do its job on a missionary and interim basis. Can there be a situation in which we are going to agree with an interim government if there is sufficient confidence in the conditions correctly laid down by the former Minister of State, which the current Secretary of State has taken over when it comes to the integrity chamber and border control?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u148	Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u149	Still, about the letter from the head of the polling station of St.Maarten. It says literally, let me translate: we do not have the material to facilitate the next election. He wrote this already on 3 November in a letter to the government of Saint Martin. Then we cannot insist here that the elections should continue on that date, no matter what it says here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u150	But the debate between me and you wasn't about the date of the election. It was about what we are doing when the elections are postponed. There was supposed to be an interim government at some point. Do you have the willingness to enter the conversation? I just asked for a simple yes or no. Instead, I got a lesson in state law. I know now that you have just misunderstood me. You yourself have admitted that, in whatever form, you will have to deal with an interim government with which you will have to make agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u151	I'm very happy to hear that the PvdA also thinks you should just postpone the election. If you see this kind of paperwork and read the opinion of the head of the polling station, you know you can't make it to hold on to an election date that just isn't possible. I'm glad we made that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u152	The VVD already called for the elections to be postponed without even knowing whether or not they could. Nor is it clear what a reasonable period is. First of all, the island of St.Maarten is the primary responsibility. By the way, the papers Mr Bosman is now waving were not there when he was already in the newspaper. Secondly, it is still the question of when to hold elections. Thirdly, we will have to discuss this with Saint Martin. The Members of Parliament have a role and a responsibility in this. These are all questions that I ask in response to Mr Bosman's contribution to the Secretary of State. He will have to ensure that this paradox, this complex situation, comes to a solution that does justice to the people of Saint Martin. That is why a statement prior to this debate would have been useful. Now we have wasted a great deal of time debating each other instead of the people on the island. Mr. Chairman. As I said, I support the agreements made by the Cabinet and conditions that have been made. I do have a number of questions about these conditions. First of all, they're about the integrity room. To what end should it be set up, according to the Secretary of State? Now it's actually an advisory college, but is that what the island needs? You don't want to put out a BOLO anymore? Is there enough state police? Do we have enough OM capacity to actually give such an integrity room a function? Who ultimately oversees the money that is being paid out at some point, even when it comes to large-scale projects? In many other countries they know the construction of the World Bank. Would that not also provide a good solution to many administrative integrity problems, as we unfortunately know on the islands? Then the build-up itself. A number of colleagues have rightly asked questions about this. How do we ensure that the construction takes place sustainably? Are we gonna have a chance with the emergency, too? Waste treatment, for example, has been a major problem on St.Maarten for many years. Can we now also come to a good waste and recycling facility? We have the knowledge and the know-how. Do we perhaps now have the opportunity to do something about this together? Questions have already been asked about students who may not be attending their final exams. Questions have also been asked about nature and coral. Finally, I have two questions. In the context of Kingdom relations as a whole, there is a need for authoritative figures, for a coherent story for the future. I invite the Secretary of State in his first debate to take a view on that. Finally, I have a question on a subject that is most important to me, namely children in poverty on many of the islands. This is something that's actually invisible and you don't talk about. Kids can't go anywhere for that. Can we keep the Children's Ombudsman as a kind of laziness when it comes to monitoring the approach to poverty on both Saint-Maarten and the other islands? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. Then I will go to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u154	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to join in the queue of colleagues who also welcomed the new Secretary of State from this place. I wish him a happy working life and a blessed period of administration for the benefit of the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom. First of all, let me ask a question raised by the coalition agreement. I read in it that the Secretary of State, the Ministry, but in fact the Secretary of State, is given a greater role in coordinating the Kingdom's relations with the corresponding budget. How does the Secretary of State see that? Does it mean that he has power of perseverance in certain specific areas of professional departments? Honestly, in the contacts with the Caribbean, I had the impression during the last period that there was a lack of information. I would like to hear the Secretary of State's reflection on that. Relations in the Kingdom require a high degree of mastery of balancing art. In my mind I see such a string dancer high in such a circus tent. I have never been there, hear.. who then with a wobbly stick bridges the distance in an unhealthy way. That kind of image does appear: on the one hand the independence of the countries of the Kingdom, which on the other hand you do not leave to their fate if there are problems. The relationship with Sint-Maarten has already been discussed in detail, with the devastation caused by Hurricane Irma and the absolute priority of reconstruction. It is right to set firm conditions for combating corruption and guaranteeing the security of the external borders. The SGP fully supports this. I ask the Secretary of State to reflect on this in the light of the current situation and also in relation to the discussion on whether or not to postpone elections. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at that. We have already drawn attention to a delta plan for the Antilles. It is precisely now that the situation has deteriorated so dramatically that we need more than lap drugs. From recent pieces and sources I mention a few points that I have noticed. The objective of an integrated approach to improving the security situation in Curaçao and Sint-Maarten has not been achieved, it is concluded. On Curaçao there is an increase in the number of robberies. Staff and prisoners in prisons are not safe enough. The operation of the police in Curaçao has not improved sufficiently. In Aruba there is a strong need for further improvement of law enforcement and security. There is a clear relationship with geopolitical developments in that environment and with social and family problems. Also, nothing seems to have been arranged around tbs at all. In short, this alone seems enough for this Secretary of State. That is why we are once again asking for a specific delta plan to be drawn up. It's not about the papers, it's not about the name. I am concerned that there should be an integrated approach, in line with the agreements in the government agreement, including agreements on reconstruction for those islands concerned, the strengthening of the rule of law and security in the other countries within the Kingdom, the concrete helping to ensure security for the population, staff and prisoners, including in relation to TBs, giving explicit attention to the strengthening of the family structure, and also, especially in the context of these islands, the involvement of the churches in addressing the problems and, of course, all this in addition to the continued attention to putting finances in order. My question is: is the Secretary of State prepared to work in this or similar way for this part of the Kingdom? Finally, Mr President. Seven years after the infamous or well-known 10-10, it is now time to ask whether we have now regulated the relations within the Kingdom in the best way possible. In the previous period, colleagues Bosman and Van Raak made a proposal. That has not yet been discussed. But I would like to put the question to the Secretary of State: is he prepared to talk again about relations between the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom and with us as parliament to see if we can come up with some euphemism optimization? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u156	Mr President, thank you very much. As the last speaker in line, I would also like to congratulate the new Secretary of State and wish him a great deal of wisdom. Given the challenges of this time, he's going to need it badly. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start by asking the Secretary of State. What is this Secretary of State going to do other than his predecessor? How does he look at the relations between the Kingdoms? Is he, according to the words of the old party leader of the CDA, going to use a VOC mentality or is he working on the principle of equivalence? How does he look at the trust and the orphan sense of many of the Kingdom's fellow citizens and the role played by the cabinet in this regard in recent years? I would like an answer to these questions. Our Kingdom has been made up of a European part and a Caribbean part for more than 400 years. What began in the period of exploration and slavery is now one Kingdom. DENK calls for continued attention to this historical background, because the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom have contributed in long history to the wealth in which we live to this day. And that was unfortunately at the expense of a great deal of human suffering in the form of forced labour and exploitation. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State how the new cabinet will increase awareness of the ties in our Kingdom and its historical context. As a result of this historical context, there is today 1) responsibility and 2) liability: responsibility to use all that is necessary to contribute to the development and well-being of the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, and liability to be generous in contributing to the welfare and well-being of the islands in the light of history. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the second point. In the coalition agreement we can read: "The cabinet is willing to invest extra in the islands, on condition that good governance and financial accountability are secured at an adequate level." However, apart from the investment in the Coast Guard, which is a good thing, we cannot see these amounts anywhere in this budget; I understand, of course, the dilemma that this Secretary of State has only been sitting there for a few days. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State: how much is the cabinet prepared to invest extra? Two: in what time? Three: what precise conditions does the cabinet put in place? Four: what is the definition of good governance? Five: What is good financial accountability? And six: how will the cabinet help the islands to realise these conditions? I am considering a motion on this point, which is why I would like to have more clarity from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. In the coming years, to the regret of DENK, a large number of expenditure in the budgets will be reduced, for example in the area of children's rights. In 2017, 1 million was earmarked for this purpose. In 2018 that goes to zero. DENK understands that the funds from the Van Laar/Segers amendment will disappear in 2018, but it is a thorn in the eye that the expenditure on children's rights will disappear just when the Children's Ombudswoman called last year about children's rights in the Caribbean Netherlands. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State whether he can continue his commitment to children's rights in 2017 at least in 2018. On this point, I have prepared an amendment; I honestly do not know whether it has already been e-mailed. Yeah, that's the case, I understand. Mr. Chairman. Then a point about the destination of the money. In the written answers we read that several departments are transferring budgets to the budget of the new Secretary of State over the course of the year. The contributions of the departments for 2018 are not yet visible. I have two questions about this. Firstly, how much money does the Secretary of State expect to get from other departments? The second question is whether the substantial amount of money that is not given in advance in the budget does not make planning on the islands more difficult. The islands don't know what they're up to. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Of course, it's not just about money. It is also about administrative relations. In this area, DENK likes to see more influence for the Caribbean Netherlands. I have three questions about this. What is the general view of the Secretary of State? What would he stand for the granting of voting rights to the States of Curaçao, St.Maarten and Aruba in the creation of national laws? And what would he say if we gave island councils the right to recite the State representative and send him away? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The most important thing, of course, is the aftermath of the terrible hurricane Irma. This terrible event is still engraving us all on the retina. For our Kingdomies it was a traumatic experience. The solidarity that arose here in the Netherlands as a result of this was beautiful. In the beginning adequate action was taken, with visits by the King and the Minister, but there is now a standstill. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he can give an up-to-date opinion on the consequences of Irma. What is the situation with regard to the restoration of the infrastructure? What about the restoration of essential facilities? What is the status of the temporary ministerial committee dealing with reconstruction? And what is the exact situation at this moment on Saint Martin? Is there an agreement or no agreement? As far as DENK is concerned, we are generous in our contribution. If society can collect EUR 13 million within no time, the government can easily exceed this in terms of quantity and speed. We would like to call upon the Cabinet and the new Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you. That was the first term of office. We will continue this debate tomorrow. Then the Secretary of State will have the floor. You can give him a hand when I have really suspended the sitting, Mr Van Raak and Mr Kuzu, instead of standing there now.
