ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u1	Colleagues, good evening. I propose that we start the 30-member debate on the hormone scandal in the animal feed sector in 2002. I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and the Minister for Medical Care. We have agreed to use a speaking time of 3 minutes per Member of Parliament. I see it as my main task to guard a little time and I would like to call on you all, given that this is the last meeting of the week and perhaps there are also plans to go home at some point, to see if we can limit it in time so that we can actually stick to a 30-member debate. Anyway, I have that ambition, and I'll put the question to you. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr President. In 2002, hormones were found to have entered the animal feed sector, causing contamination of all kinds of pigs and a serious threat to public health. The cabinet at the time was rather soothing about this: "no acute danger to public health'. In 2005, a report from the KLPD on organised environmental crime came out, showing that the situation was much more serious than the government wanted to believe at the time. The person who brought out that report, then director of Wakker Dier and my current colleague Marianne Thieme, was criminalised by the livestock sector and by fellow parties, whom I will not mention by name. It was a great shame that that report had been brought out; it should never have happened. In the end, the judge said "because she was brought before the courts "no, the public interest was certainly served; this information had to go outside." The lesson we can learn from this is that it certainly did not help: we are now in the Lower House with five seats. But the judge also found that covering up what is actually going on was not justified. The Correspondent has now re-examined exactly what was going on, and this reconstruction teaches us that despite debates in 2005, the Chamber has not been sufficiently informed, for example about the fact that hormones have also been put into lemonade. That's never been reported. From the debate that has taken place in Europe on how many companies should now close, the Correspondent has found that the incantations of the Cabinet............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A letter that De Correspondent holds from the then legal director of the Ministry of LNV now also shows that LNV knew very well what it would have meant if the rules were properly observed. It would have meant that 6 million pigs could not enter the food chain, which would pose a risk to public health. We have asked a letter to the former cabinet and the strange thing, President, is that Minister Schippers and Minister Kamp did not go into all those points in the reconstruction of the Correspondent. It is still suggested that public health has not been compromised, while the conclusion is that RIVM cannot make that conclusion at all. On the relevant points, the affected pigs at that pig farmer who brought proceedings against the State, the concealment of the lemonade contamination and the exact outcome of the dispute that the Netherlands finally agreed with the European Commission that it should be allowed to act differently from the rules imposed on it, the Correspondent did not obtain the documents, despite a request made on the basis of the Public Administration Act. But the Party for Animals wants those pieces to come above the table and be sent to the Chamber. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u3	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I give the floor to Mr Grashoff for his contribution on behalf of GroenLinks in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about a food scandal again and this one time an old man. You might wonder why we do that 15 years after we do that. But if you read the articles in The Correspondent, you'll be frightened. That's kind of a dilemma for me. What exactly am I supposed to do with this? Do we have to deal with this issue 15 years ago and look at what went right and what went wrong? Or should we emphasise whether this could happen again? Or is it now, after 15 years, so far that it is impossible for such a situation to arise and that data is thus swept under the carpet. I'm not sure. We have talked about the fipronil issue and the mistakes that have been made. I can see parallels. Do the rulers see those parallels? If so, we still have a few points to solve. The spread of hormone substances in food proved to be greater than expected. At the time that was not put forward, not made public. The big question is whether this should actually be allowed. Can you keep people in the dark like that? The same seemed to happen in the fipronil matter for a while, until the shore turned the ship and the place came out. Since then, many far-reaching actions have started and consequences have been drawn. In hindsight, we said: had only done so before. In this case, nothing has come out for 15 years at all. What if this happened again? That's impossible, isn't it? Do the leaders agree with me that it should be impossible, if there really is a risk to public health, not to make that known and not to investigate? Was there no reason, for example, to conduct large-scale population surveys among consumers or potential consumers of contaminated food? If that were to happen now, this would be all the more true. It seems to me a right for people to know what is going on with them. All in all, the question now is whether this would be fundamentally different. Or should we leave the whole dossier, the articles and the background information with the Sorgblader committee? I also ask the directors if they are prepared to do so. The question then is whether the committee would also like to look at this in the light of its research into fipronil. Try to remove the parallels and make recommendations in such a way that this can never, ever happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u5	This is an interesting suggestion from Mr Grashoff. I told you in my term, it's kind of a weird situation. We have a letter from a previous cabinet. We are sitting here with two ministers who are cold for two weeks. Would it be an idea to ask the ministers themselves to write a letter about the failure to inform the Chamber, the reconstruction of the Correspondent and what else is to be reported to the Chamber? This can then be involved in the investigation of the Sorgdrager Committee together with everything that has been given to the Correspondent. In fact, I would like these new directors to respond to the questions raised in connection with the reconstruction of the Correspondent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u6	I'm gonna have to think about that. I think I want to wait and see what the rulers have to say before I find anything. This may depend on the way the response is made. In any case, I think that Mrs Ouwehand and I agree that this is an interesting file to hand over to the Sorgblader committee in order to link it with how it went 15 years ago and compare it with how it went recently? What's wrong with the way we communicate? The question is, in particular, how can we ensure that public health risks are made known to the people concerned at all times?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u7	That seems to be sufficient for Mrs Ouwehand for now. Then we come to Mr De Groot for his contribution on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Compliments to The Correspondent for good investigative journalism. Then you can see that it is important that this kind of work takes place, even though it has been some time ago. The value of this type of research may indeed lie in the lessons that we can now draw from it. The D66 Group also has questions about this. To what extent are we prepared for such a situation? The Correspondent's article notes that the chain, in particular the feed chain, was not closed. It wasn't closed, so streams of cattle feed, molasses, could be created that were contaminated. Things have been going on since then, including from the business community. In 2013 an organisation called Secure Feed was set up to close the entire dairy farming chain as a result of the problem of epizootic diseases in animal feed. In short, all feed suppliers of dairy farmers must be members of Secure Feed. This is laid down in the quality systems of the processing industry, so that no feed from non-members of Secure Feed can be involved. Secure Feed itself keeps an overview of all supplier product combinations, so that all material flows, including the risks, are mapped. That way, the whole dairy farming chain was closed. The question to the Minister is what about the pig chain and the chicken chain? Are those chains closed, as in dairy farming? My second question is about chain security. In 2014 we had the horse meat affair. Following this, chainborging.nl was established in consultation with the business community. Also there it was intended to check from the VWA whether the private quality systems do what they promise. For there is a great responsibility on the part of the business community that lies there primarily for food safety. Is that also where quality assurance is in order? I was just looking at the website chainborging.nl and to my fear I had to find that only three quality systems are "approved," I say just between quotes, by the VWA. The rest are still on hold. Then we are talking about 2014 and it is now almost 2018. How slow can it go? My question to the Minister is, even there, what is the expectation of progress. Can the Minister sit around the table with the business community again to finish this project? Or quit, I'm okay with that. But leaving it still doesn't seem like a good idea. These were the two points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you very much, Mr De Groot. I call Mr Geurts. No, I still see Mrs Ouwehand with a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u10	I hear the spokesperson of D66 talking about the chain, but do you think he might also think of the way in which the government should deal with such situations? Isn't D66 also shocked that the Chamber hasn't even been informed that these hormones have also ended up in lemonade, that they could have just been consumed, that we all don't know that and that it seems that negative test results are positive, should I say from a commercial laboratory in any case give the impression that maybe pigs MPA-free have been declared that wasn't at all? That is a matter of concern and the cabinet has never informed the Chamber about it. Is D66 worried about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u11	That's two questions. Let me start with the last question. The cabinet sent a letter on October 13th. We've taken note of that. As far as we are concerned, that is a clear letter, but additional questions have been asked and, of course, we will also be listening to the answers. The second question is how the government controls. The focus of the Animal Party is very much on the government, but we must not forget that the industry itself is legally responsible for food safety. Business is now better organised than in 2002. But we are also critical about that, because as we could see from the summer with fipronil there is still a lot to do. Also there was a private quality scheme that didn't do what it promised. So there is certainly still a role for the government, but it can be much more effective than it can be for the business community to improve the functioning of the private chain quality systems it has.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u12	Mrs. Ouwehand. Finishing, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u13	This is going to get a little crazy, because I also mean, of course, the role in our parliamentary system: we have to control the government. The basis for that is that we are well informed, aren't we? The question is therefore not to what extent the public authorities have a view on the sector. Of course, those questions live too. But does D66 think she's well informed about this whole affair? And doesn't D66 have any questions about how the cabinet handled it? One lab came up with different results than herself. There may therefore have been a higher risk of public health than has always been reported to the Court. D66 thinks so, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u14	Once again, the value of that good investigation by the Correspondent is not so much in bringing up a case of fifteen years ago, about which there are the necessary questions. We await the answers to that. But the value lies in the question of what we can learn from that case for now. As far as I am concerned, we are going to keep it up to date and from this Chamber we are also going to assume our responsibility to regulate it in such a way that it is now good. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u15	Thank you. I propose that we proceed to Mr Geurts for his contribution on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u16	Mr. Chairman. This is the first time we have talked to the new leaders about a fraud case in the food chain, a case that took place about 15 years ago. In this fraud case, it went wrong when sugar water from the pharmaceutical industry entered the food chain. In circular agriculture, the use of residual food flows is already very old. These residual flows are indirectly re-suited for human consumption. This is how we prevent each other from throwing away food. Cattle, especially pigs, but also cows and chickens, are indispensable in circular farming. And, Mr President, do you know that Dutch pig farming is already the most efficient in the world? Pig farmers are circular agricultural experts. In the Netherlands, 1% of the global volume of pork is produced while only 0.2% of the world's agricultural emissions are produced. If we continue to shape circular agriculture in the coming years, there will be even more use of residual flows. We also develop new protein sources, such as fermented beet leaves, insects or seaweed. And we're trying to get more protein up close. Mr President, fraud is of all times. See the fipronil affair recently. This type of fraud causes great damage, not only financially but also emotionally. Unfortunately, there are rotten apples in the food chain. They need to be tracked down and dealt with hard. And we've talked about food fraud in this Chamber before. In dealing with fraud, you see a European dimension, whether it be horse meat or waste streams that entered the food chain illegally. In the room, I've been on this before. What is the situation, for example, with the harmonised approach in the Member States for sampling and with European sampling plans, I ask the ministers. Commercial laboratories do not need to report measured exceedances of standards. I have the following question to the cabinet. Are commercial laboratories going to be required to report standard exceedances? Mr President, earlier I advocated personal certification in companies, which would increase personal responsibility in the chain. The former VWS minister would discuss this with the sector. That was in April 2015. I'm afraid there hasn't been a feedback from that conversation. I would ask the new Minister to examine the possibilities of personal certification and to discuss this with the sector. The question I have to ask is this: is the Minister prepared to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u17	I see, Mr Geurts, that Mr De Groot wishes to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I fully agree with what Mr Geurts says about circular agriculture. And residual streams are incredibly important for that. Pigs can take a very important role in this. But do you agree with me that this must go hand in hand with food safety and the closure of the chain? If you want to free up more residual flows, the safety of these flows must also be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u19	This is actually a rhetorical question or an open door. That's all I'm gonna take for granted. I have just indicated in my contribution, especially at the end, that I think there is still room for improvement, for example through personal certification. This means that a person in such a company where residual flows are produced will also be responsible for the fact that those residual flows would go further into the chain. It is in itself common practice in quality countries to do this kind of thing and I ask the cabinet what I asked for in 2015. The minister was supposed to talk to the business community. Unfortunately, I haven't seen any feedback. I thought it would be a good time for this debate to ask for a feedback.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u20	In conclusion, Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u21	Wouldn't it be a good idea to look further at chain liability and make sure that you are really responsible in the various links if you make a pot of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u22	That's a very interesting question. If you ordered a taxi tonight before 11:00 p.m. and I have to give you a full answer to that, I'd order that taxi off. Let me try to sum it up briefly. I think delivery conditions and such things should be organized in a private way, within the chain. I believe that it is really up to the business community to shape this together and that we should not judge this right here in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u23	This seems to be sufficient for Mr De Groot. Mrs. Ouwehand is reporting for the third time. I'll allow you to do that, but I can see that it's your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u24	Mr President, I should just like to put one question, as Mr Grashoff did. Does the CDA really not have one question about all the documents published by the Correspondent, what that means for the way in which the Chamber has been informed and how the debate has been conducted in Europe? Not one question about the whole MPA affair that new facts have come out about? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u25	I made an assessment. I saw the order of speakers and thought: Mrs Ouwehand is going to ask very intelligent questions about this situation, and if she does that enough, I would like to join a whole section of those questions and say so to the cabinet. I am very curious about the answers given by the cabinet to the questions put by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u26	It seems that Mr Grashoff would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u27	Three times is apparently a charm, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u28	Asking questions to the rulers is very good, but Mr Geurts does have views, doesn't he? I am curious how he is now looking at this story when it comes to the action of the government. Does Mr Geurts say: fine, nothing wrong with it? Or does he have something like: well, there is something crazy about the action of the government in this matter; is that all right? Does he have an opinion about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u29	I've been watching that case like this. It's a matter of 15 years ago. It was about living have that eventually became part meat and it was in drinks, in food. I wondered then: would those food from 15 years ago still be in the fridge or the freezer? In the balancing framework, my answer was: well, I consider that opportunity to be very small. So I say that I did not see primarily the current risk of this issue for food safety. I had the opportunity to think again about what we have been discussing about food fraud since 2012, in the five years I have been a Member of Parliament. I've been looking into that. That was a good reminder. I thought: hey, I had a few more questions, there was going to be something else from the cabinet, I didn't see that, so let me ask that tonight, and then I will also join with the questions that Mrs Ouwehand asked. I also saw Mr Grashoff coming for me. Given his contribution to the past, I thought: well, most of the questions have already been asked; let me try something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u30	Mr Grashoff, in conclusion. Mr. Geurts, perhaps you could...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u31	I think it is wonderful that Mr Geurts is particularly complementary to the questions put by Mrs Ouwehand and me. I am very pleased that he also agrees with those questions, but it does not mean that the answer to my question is just a little bit of a pervasive movement. Of course, it was in all probability at the time when it was clear that it was a risk realised and not a risk that could still be overcome. Then maybe it would have been a different situation. But even when it comes to a realised risk, the government has a responsibility to its inhabitants, namely to inform people decently and honestly about what has happened and at least to allow them to know, know and, to the extent that the government can facilitate it, also to ensure that the consequences of it are taken into account. This could have been, for example, health research in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u32	There could have been so many things. This is a 15-year-old case. At least, that was the origin. I have just made the decision to make another contribution in view of the order in which the speakers are to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u33	I can't get an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u34	You have an answer, but you don't like the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u35	I suggest that we move on to the next speaker on the list. That's Mrs. Lodders on behalf of the VVD. She too has three minutes. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u36	Mr. Chairman. When you and I do groceries at the supermarket on Saturday morning, we assume that the piece of meat on the shelves is safe. This expectation is more than justified. Mr. Chairman. I dare say that every political party, including the VVD, has a high priority for food safety, if not number one. To ensure food safety, there is a responsibility for every link in the chain. But there is certainly a task for the government here as well. If food fraud is detected, it must be dealt with and enforced immediately. The messing with food must be dealt with as hard as possible. This debate is about a food fraud affair that took place 15 years ago. The origin of the affair was an Irish pharmaceutical that supplied hormone-treated wastewater that was illegally processed in animal feed and thus ended up in our pork and ultimately in ice cream and lemonade. An affair that we must take very seriously. Not only because of the dangers to public health, but also because of the serious consequences in this case for the affected pig farmers whose company was blocked, but not less painful. That is why I ask the Ministers whether, as after any scandal, sufficient lessons have been learned from this incident. To rule out such a scandal ever happening again, we can never do it. But it is important that all the links in the chain work carefully and do their utmost to prevent this in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u37	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Then we come to the last speaker from the first term of office, Mr Futselaar, on behalf of the SP. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A case from 2002 in a debate in 2017. I imagine it's a little absurd for the outside world. However, the SP sees the need for this debate. This is a matter of food safety, and this is an issue on which we have also learned this year how crucial it is and how closely it can listen. Moreover, a number of specific allegations in the Correspondent's document deserve to be discussed here. I will ask a number of questions about this, also in order to prevent Mrs Ouwehand from interrupting. Firstly, there is the issue with the MPA infected Belgian lemonade. The Minister states that the then Audit Service of Value was unable to establish that it ended up in the Netherlands, with which the stakes actually ended. The question then is why, for security's sake, it was not chosen to warn the people about this lemonade. There is a lot of border between the Netherlands and Belgium and there are a lot of people who sometimes cross the border. Surely it is obvious to say that there is a potential threat to our people here? I would also like to know whether the rulers today would look at this in a different way. The second point. The Correspondent also points out that, according to the European Directive, fans should have lost much more pigs in 2002 than had happened. Can the Minister confirm or deny that this is the case? At the time, separate agreements were made with Brussels to deviate from the standards and, if so, what is the justification for this? In 2013, the National Ombudsman found that the NVWA and the government were not transparent in relation to the duped pig farmer that the document is actually about. It may happen that the treatment of an individual is not good, but if you talk to entrepreneurs today about the fipronil issue and about their vision of NVWA it's never fun to be checked, it's never fun if you lock up your stall and hear them complain about getting data, then I wonder what lessons NVWA and the directors take from this case when it comes to the right of entrepreneurs to information about their own researched animals and products. Finally. The Minister states that, following the 2002 MPA crisis, the monitoring of the chain has been extended to the public authorities. That is correct, but I would point out that in recent years the trend has gone much more towards the sector. Even today, in another fraud scandal, I have heard the Minister of LNV again say that the sector is now on the move. At the same time, we are now seeing an NVWA which is at least periodically overstaffed. That's what we saw during the fipronil crisis. Apparently, it was a party in the manure-free state. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister would like to briefly reflect on the following questions, because that is what this is all about during these debates. What is the role of the government in monitoring the food chain? Who has the final responsibility in the supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I have a happy announcement for all of you, because I understand that both directors can immediately answer the questions they have been asked. I shall be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins and I have indeed divided things somewhat, because there is a shared responsibility in this area. We have explained this shared responsibility in such a way that it should be; I think it is right that the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality should deal with everything up to the shelf. From the moment it is on the shelf, it is the responsibility of the colleague. I shall therefore concentrate on the previous part, and Mr Bruins will take care of all the issues relating to food quality. A number of Members have already mentioned it: we are talking about a case that played a long time ago: the 2002 MPA affair. Even though it was a long time ago, it was nevertheless a serious affair of great magnitude, which also showed the vulnerability of our food system, affected confidence in food safety and had a major impact on the companies concerned. The Correspondent published three articles on the MPA affair in September this year. On 13 October last, our predecessors of VWS and EZ informed the Chamber of the articles. Pigs were found to have been fed food containing illicit pharmaceutical waste containing hormones. When the fraud came to light, it appeared that the feed had already been delivered and fed on many pig farms. All these companies had to lock up in anticipation of the results of the analysis. That was a personal tragedy for many concerned pig farmers. Many were touched by the fraudulent actions of a few. The Correspondent states that the size of the affair has been deliberately reduced by the government. I would like to emphasise that I do not share that view. At the time, the ministries concerned made efforts to identify the source of pollution and to put all contaminated plants under surveillance as soon as possible. The infected pigs have also been destroyed. It was then examined at which farms that had received contaminated feed all animals were free from MPA. The animals on these farms did not need to be disposed of. Food safety has always been at the forefront of this consideration. This has also been agreed at European level. I would just like to mention that, in the end, 50,000 pigs have been removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u41	Madam Secretary, I see that Mrs Ouwehand would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u42	This minister is new. I would like to believe her, but the letter we received from her predecessor does not address at all the many detailed questions raised by the reconstruction of the Correspondent. We know that an agreement was finally reached with the European Commission, but now it has emerged that the legal service of the Ministry at the time knew very well what strict compliance with the rules would mean, namely that the meat of 6 million pigs should not enter the shelves. The Correspondent has made efforts to get the information on this issue, which has been discussed with the European Commission. One got zero on reeks, despite an appeal to the Public Administration Act. I would very much like to check how that has been done and what the considerations have been, because there is now a picture that economic interests have indeed been the deciding factor. In the letter from the ministers it was not accepted, but is this cabinet prepared to give more openness so that this Chamber can check how it went and we can also have confidence in what the minister is telling us now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u43	I also checked how that WOB request was handled. I can assure you that it concerns all the data that we could find at the moment and that it goes back to 2002 and that we have looked very carefully at what documents we were able to deliver. It also went into tranches because it took such a hard search to get all those pieces. If there were any cases that could be transferred, they'd be transferred. So it is not the case that things have been withheld or that things have not come up in response to the WOB request because it might be difficult. Really everything we could give, we gave. Mrs Ouwehand disputes that economic interests have not taken precedence over food safety interests. I would like to put that question in a broader perspective. At the time, we looked very closely at which animals were infected, because the infected animals had to be disposed of. I believe that it is precisely the Animal Party that often puts the finger on us that, if we do not need it, we should not be too quick to clean up animals in the event of an outbreak of a disease. This already indicates that there is a balance of interests without prejudice to food safety. Food safety is really a priority. But when animals aren't infected and they've been carefully looked at, you make the decision not to dispose of them. I would almost say that this should appeal to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u44	That's what we're gonna hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u45	No, animals should not be disposed of at all, but food safety is an inviolable value. Experts and professors who have spoken to the Correspondent say that the European rules have a zero tolerance on them for a reason. The Correspondent's article really raises the question whether food safety has had the primacy or whether other reasons have played a role in the context. It's a real pain in the ass if that suggestion sticks. Let me give you another example. The government's laboratory results were aimed at declaring transport tracks 2 and 3 safe. A laboratory previously hired by the government, which until then was praised for its results, had other test results. So now there is a suggestion that the government has declared pigs MPA-free when it might not actually have been. Isn't that the kind of supposition you're trying to disprove? That is why I appeal to this new cabinet. I am talking a little bit about the letter from the previous cabinet. I think it is important that the suggestions raised by the reconstruction of the Correspondent should be rejected with credibility. I do not see the beginning of this, not in the letter and not in the reply of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u46	The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u47	Mrs Ouwehand also states it herself: there are a lot of suggestions. For example, there is a suggestion that the laboratory would be out to secure tracks 2 and 3. On the contrary, we have looked very closely at what has happened to the animals that have come into contact with the second and third streams of the feed trail. An extensive representative sample was carried out on pig and poultry holdings involved in these feed tracks. The results were negative in all these animals. That's why those companies have been released again. It has therefore been a systematic and careful approach, which has also been coordinated within the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u48	I suggest you continue your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u49	Mr. Chairman. The affair gave rise to a better guarantee of the whole food chain and its monitoring. Since then, a lot of steps have been taken. For example, the responsibility for monitoring compliance with the feed rules in the years following the affair has largely returned to the government. I believe that Mr Futselaar also recalled that. European feed legislation has also been strengthened. It also lays down clearly the conditions for feed businesses to comply with in order to ensure the flows monitored by the public authorities. The quality system of the feed sector, called GMP+, has been greatly improved. In doing so, the sector took responsibility for better guaranteeing raw materials flows. In addition, industry has taken new initiatives to ensure feed safety, including the creation of the private quality system SecureFeed. Mr De Groot has already mentioned this. In recent years, therefore, efforts have been made to remove the vulnerabilities in the system and to strengthen the food chain. Mr Grashoff asked that all the risks of this ever occurring should be eliminated. We will never be able to guarantee that this sort of thing will not happen again, but I do think that, precisely after this affair, systematic steps have been taken to ensure that supervision is strengthened and that better systems have been put in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u50	That wasn't my question. My question was not: does the Minister want to ensure that nothing ever goes wrong in this society again, under penalty of immediate departure from this space? What matters, and that was the essence of my question, is that it cannot happen that if something is not good on such a scale, the Chamber is partly informed and partly not informed. That should not be prevented, and that is what the Minister is about. Another point is that people who may have been seriously exposed to a risk that has never heard of their lives. Those are two things that happened in this case. I think it should be that this can no longer be prevented. If this Minister is unable to answer that question, I am going to put it to her colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u51	The latter is always allowed. Mr Grashoff has already indicated that we have just had the fipronil affair. At the moment we are looking at how that has gone and what lessons can be drawn from it. So it's not like it doesn't happen anymore. Unfortunately, I add, because of course you want it to be prevented, but that is not always possible. The moment these things happen again, as a government, you start looking more closely: what happened here, what can we learn from this and what may need to be changed. This has happened after the affair we are discussing tonight, but it will also happen even more: this is done through the investigation of the Sorgbruger committee, which looks at the fipronil affair. If there are lessons to be learned from this, then we will be the last to fail, but then I am ahead of that research that is taking place now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u52	With that answer I can in itself, albeit I think that there may also be reason to hand over this dossier to the Sorgbruger committee, as I have asked in my contribution, to allow the committee to see what lessons can be learned from the parallels between the two cases. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u53	Mr Bruins will go further into the investigation of the Sorgdrager committee, so let me put this question to him. You can rest assured that the cabinet will speak with one voice on this point as well. We've just indicated that we need to keep learning. As soon as the records of the Sorgblader committee are known, we will discuss this with you. I would like to take the questions that have been asked in my area immediately so that Mr Bruins can do so in his area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u54	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u55	We have just talked about Mrs Ouwehand's question to get the pieces over the water. We really did everything we could to bring up the pieces we could still bring up. A lot of people have been working on that. We have nothing to hide here. I have just dealt with Mr Grashoff's question. Mr De Groot asked about the chain guarantee. Following the horse meat affair in 2013, the Food Confidence Task Force set out additional criteria that good private quality systems should meet. For private quality systems to meet these criteria, you can apply to NVWA for a review. That's the so-called acceptance. Until now, such a review process takes about two and a half to three years in practice. This is because for private quality systems adjustments have to be made, but also because the NVWA has had to develop new procedures for this purpose. It takes a long time, so the aim is to speed this up now. The verification, the practical test, is done by visiting a number of companies certified under the quality system for a so-called appreciation research. So, "what's going well?" Instead of "what's not going well?'. After acceptance, the private quality system is mentioned on the website of Ketenborging.nl. The NVWA will then continue to talk to them about improvement points for the private quality systems. The NVWA then uses the information on the private quality systems to shape its risk-based supervision. For example, the NVWA can be where there are risks and thus experienced forerunners less supervisory pressure. Three quality systems for the food sector have now been accepted. In addition, four quality systems for the feed sector have been notified. Three of them are expected to be accepted very soon. Mr De Groot asked about systems, for example: for the dairy sector we have already set up a fairly good chain, but what about the poultry and pig sectors? There is an extensive quality system for feed, which is GMP+ International. They're all abbreviations, Mr. Chairman. This is the largest quality system in the Dutch feed sector. Inside it is ensured that participants in GMP+ only take away from other participants, so that the chain up to and including the raw materials producers abroad is secured. My information is that the chicken and pig sectors are also part of this. So it is a slightly different system, but it is a system in which the chain approach is central: know where everything comes from. And that's with whoever's connected to that quality system. So there is something going on at this point. We would strongly recommend that other sectors be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u56	An interruption by Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u57	All feed suppliers are indeed connected to GMP+. That's right. That's kind of the minimum standard. The nice thing about SecureFeed is that it introduces a management system with a product supplier combination, including annual practice with tracking and tracing. So it really is a much more active structure, which can also be closed down from the processors. In that respect, I think, there is still room for improvement in the pig and chicken sectors. My question is therefore whether the Minister is prepared to sit down with them again to see if the battle for animal feed can also be fought. At least the risks were clear from the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u58	Of course, they're private systems. That is what it says: they are systems set up by the sector itself. So it is not so that the government then says "you will," "you must do this" or "you must." I think that, if there is room for improvement, attention will be paid to this. I have just indicated that the NVWA will continue to look at improvements to the private quality systems that have been notified to NVWA. In view of the division of responsibility, I would like to stress that a private quality system is also primarily private parties. If they are smart, they will continue to improve. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered the questions raised by my colleagues in my area. I assume that Mr Bruins will comment on the other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u59	Mrs Ouwehand seems to have discovered an unanswered question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u60	Yes, Mr. Chairman. My question concerns how the debate has gone on in Europe. We understand from the Correspondent that the Ministry, the Legal Service, knew that European rules require that the meat of 6 million pigs should not enter the food chain in this situation. In the end, the Netherlands has been able to make a different appointment with the European Commission. The Minister just said: we have done our best to find out all the documents and reveal them; we are not trying to withhold anything. But we understand from The Correspondent that they have asked the Ministry. The Ministry now says that there is no deviation from the directive. This would be reflected in the minutes of that consultation with the European Commission. But it doesn't say in those minutes that that was the conclusion. So the Minister understands my question, doesn't he? She understands that we want to know what led to the Netherlands not having to follow the rules, which in our view was a risk to public health, if it was not explicitly exchanged between the Netherlands and the European Commission, decided and recorded in the Minutes. How can the Ministry say to the Correspondent that the directive has not been infringed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u61	The way in which animals were disposed of was then examined in consultation with Europe. Conversely, if that had not been the case, Mrs Ouwehand would certainly have found something in the documents that shows that the rules have been broken. That didn't happen. It happened in close consultation with Europe. The Netherlands has not acted on its own. That has also been shown, because we have not received any indication from Europe or anything like that that rules have been broken. Proving you're working on following the rules... Let me put it this way: if you follow the rules, you don't hear anything; if things go wrong, you're told you didn't follow the rules. That has not happened here, because it has happened in coordination with Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u62	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u63	Yeah, but that's something else. There are guidelines and they were clear. That's what the Department of LNV knew back then. In the end, the Netherlands had to fight hard with the European Commission, but the directive is the directive. If a different interpretation were possible, it should be recorded in the Minutes, and that is not the case. So I just really want to know how that turned out. Is it indeed based on an interpretation of the directive which is also valid, or has the Netherlands just been pushing the European Commission and getting its way, when there really was no basis for that? I want to be able to control that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u64	Once again, we have handed over the documents we could find. So it's not like we've withheld certain things. Has the Netherlands been pushing or have we done something that the Commission does not like? If we had done so, the Commission would have called the bell and said: you are doing something that we do not agree with. I've been coming to Brussels a little more recently since I got this job. I can tell you one thing: the Commission is rather stubborn and will really not allow countries to interpret the rules in their own way. This has been done in a way that Europe has also said: this is right, this is right, you can do so. If they hadn't, they'd be standing right here on the sidewalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u65	I would now like to propose that we go to Mr Futselaar, who would also like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u66	The latter promises something for the derogation, but well. I have another question about the NVWA. I had asked what we learned from the Ombudsman's ruling on the specific entrepreneur who says he is not getting his own data back. I asked you that, specifically because it's a complaint that you now hear in the fipronil case here and there. They say, "I'm not getting any information about my own research." Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u67	Yes. First of all, let me say that this particular case, of Mr Gommers, which is also mentioned in the article 'Article ', is a special case, because things did not go well there. That is what the Ombudsman himself has put forward, and we must recognise that. I do not think we can compare the situation as it is now with what happened there. Those are incomparable units, let me put it this way. I have to say that I don't know or hear directly from people who don't get their data up at NVWA. I do not know whether Mr Futselaar has specific indications that there are problems with that or something like that. If that is the case, I would like to discuss it with NVWA, but it is not known to me at the moment that certain information people want is not being provided. Perhaps Mr Futselaar could be a little more specific. If there is a problem there, I would of course like to record it with the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u68	Mr Futselaar. It's a very short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u69	It does not need to be now, but would the Minister be prepared to carry out a small evaluation of the entrepreneurs involved in the aftermath of the fipronil affair? What exactly are the experiences in general? I think we can all learn from that. If you do, will you send the results to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u70	I am looking at Mr Bruins with a slanted eye, but I think that this kind of thing is also included in the Sorgdrager committee's investigation. If that is not the case, we can also see whether this element can still be taken into account in the Sorgblader committee. How did the communication with the entrepreneurs go? It is quite real to start a survey from our point of view with the entrepreneurs. The Sorgblader committee is really already looking at how it went. I think we can ask the committee to look again at this communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u71	This seems to lead to agreement with Mr Futselaar. Have you come to the end of answering the questions that have been put to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u72	Yeah, as far as I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u73	Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care, so that he too can answer the questions he has been asked by Members of Parliament in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, it is very important for consumers to be able to trust that what we eat is safe. I would therefore like to begin by saying that food safety in the Netherlands is very high. This is because in the Netherlands and in the EU we have a good system of legislation and supervision in the area of food safety, traceability and also labelling. Business and government must do everything in their power to prevent incidents. Businesses are responsible for placing safe products on the market and ensuring the right information about those products. The government oversees this through the NVWA. However, it is impossible to prevent food safety incidents and food fraud 100%. Occasionally, something goes wrong, either through careless action or fraudulent action. Sometimes it goes wrong because of bad luck, by accidental introduction or contamination in the food chain. If something goes wrong, companies must be able to react quickly and trace and remove the contaminated batches of food as soon as possible. Only when they are unable or unable to do so will the supervisor NVWA take over this task. The NVWA then organises retrieving actions. This is a well-functioning system. Food safety consists of a combination of risk assessment, risk management, i.e. decisions on measures, and possible risk communication. At the time of the MPA affair, RIVM assessed the risks to consumers and considered that consumers did not run any risks. Therefore, a public warning, risk communication, was not included in this incident. As far as risk management is concerned, the Department of Inspection of Waren examined whether contaminated sugar water had been supplied to Dutch manufacturers. Mrs Ouwehand asked a question about this. Weren's Inspection Service didn't find that out. Also in 2002, at the time of the MPA affair, we already had a well-functioning food safety system. Rules for this are laid down in basic European legislation. But all incidents have also been evaluated recently. This has led to improvements in the food safety system, in legislation and in its monitoring. For example, the risk assessment is carried out at both European and national level by independent bodies. In Europe, EFSA's assessment, the European Food Safety Authority, is leading, and in the Netherlands, the Risk Assessment & Research Agency, independently positioned within NVWA, assesses public health risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u75	Minister, I see Mr Grashoff at the interrupting microphone. I am not in a position to judge when I can point to the interrupting microphone as chairman, but I would like to give Mr Grashoff an opportunity to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u76	It is about the Minister's ruling that it has been examined whether that sugar syrup also reached Dutch lemonade manufacturers. I think that's an interesting one. What is at the end of the day? That something gets to manufacturers or that you drink something? The latter seems to me to be the guiding criterion from the point of view of public health. This raises the question: how consistent and consistent is the line around informing the public? In this case, it was mentioned that it had ended up in the lemonade of a Belgian lemonade manufacturer. I know what kind of supermarket in the Netherlands could have been on the shelf. So that hasn't been investigated. And that lemonade could have just been drunk. This means that there may have been an important public health risk. However, there was no response to that. There's been no warning. For example, there has been no publication in the vein of "Dear People, you may have had lemonade from Pura Sources; if so, would you like to report to the GP?" Would the Minister agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u77	Oh, yeah. Following these signals from Belgium, the then Audit Service of Waren checked whether there were any deliveries in the Netherlands. It was a particular brand. This has been checked by the suppliers of soft drinks. It's been found that those suspicious deliveries weren't there. Then there is no reason to warn the public. We need to make sure that we don't face each other here. I think it is important to warn the public if there is a health risk. However, it must always be checked whether there is a risk to health and what is the appropriate measure. That's why I was referring to the three steps of risk assessment, risk management and risk communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u78	Mr Grashoff has a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u79	In itself, what the Minister says is correct. Of course you're looking at it on the basis of the risk. I am glad that the Minister says that it has been considered whether there were deliveries in the Netherlands. That's new information for me. Thank you for that. That's fine. I would like to make the following point, but perhaps the Minister can confirm that. Suppose there were deliveries in the Netherlands. Then the performance would have been different, too. That brings me to the question that lies behind it: how sharp and clear is it now? This is in abstracto a good answer from the Minister. Of course we'll see what the risk is and so on. But when is there a risk? How big does it have to be? I urge you to do so, because this point also came on the table quite prominently throughout the fipronil issue. There still seems to be a grey area when it comes to the question of when and when the public will not be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u80	Can I answer that question on the basis of the following example? No real standard applies to prohibited substances. They simply cannot be present in our food. In practice, the smallest quantity that can be reliably measured determines the detection limit, the standard. If a prohibited substance is demonstrated in food, an assessment of the health risk of the measured amount of that prohibited substance is necessary. That risk assessment shall determine whether a recall and/or a public warning is necessary. In the MPA affair, it was considered that no public warning was necessary because the quantities of MPA in the meat did not pose a public health risk. At fipronil, however, the public was warned, at least for one batch of eggs in which the ARfD, the Acute Reference Dose, was exceeded. It has been considered that a number of parties also exceeded the daily intake for children. The conclusion of this whole is that each case requires tailor-made work and therefore, from case to case, on the basis of a risk assessment, it is necessary to consider the measures to be taken. I have just given you the example of the lemonade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u81	I see that Mr Futselaar also wishes to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u82	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It was not found on the Dutch market, but on the Belgian market. It was about soda. There was also ice cream, I believe. Quite a few Dutch people do their shopping in Belgium, just like a lot of Dutch people do their shopping in Germany. In practice, they do that in the border region. This is even a process that is getting bigger as a result of the VAT increase. Shouldn't you consider that in such a case? Shouldn't we warn these people? It could be a whole bunch of people. If you live in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen, there is a good chance that your supermarket is across the border and that that soda is actually sold there. Then there is a risk, also for Dutch people? Shouldn't the government have a role to play in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u83	Food safety is, of course, becoming more and more a European system, with a European standard. In this case, the deliveries in the Netherlands have been looked at. I can imagine that if such a case happens again, you will look more at the surrounding countries, but always according to the same three-stage rocket I have just mentioned: from risk assessment, to risk management and to risk communication for our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u84	I think that is a satisfactory answer, because I vaguely heard a bit in it: I might have done something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u85	I'm happy about that. It is up to the Minister to prosecute the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u86	That's actually kind of the conclusion of my introduction. To sum up, lessons are learned from each incident. We must use them to improve the control of known food risks. We're never done with that. Unfortunately, from time to time unknown risks appear, causing new incidents. So you can never prevent it in its entirety. So we will always have to stay alert. In reply to Mr Geurts' questions, I shall return to that in a moment. I had already started answering a number of questions. I have already addressed Mrs Ouwehand's question on the delivery of lemonade in the Netherlands. Mr Grashoff asked whether you should now give the whole dossier to the Sorgblader committee. I would think you should just ask the questions you have. Then I will see to it that the report of this sitting comes to the Sorgblader committee. The House of Representatives has previously had the opportunity to formulate and submit questions to the Sorgdrager committee. There is therefore plenty of room to formulate the questions to the Sorgblader committee. If you would like to take advantage of this, you have been invited and I am happy to ensure that the report of this debate also reaches Mrs Sorgblader. I think this was the most important question that Mr Grashoff asked me. Then there are Mr Geurts' questions. Yes, Mr Geurts, there were days when I hadn't gone into sampling, but I have now. Your first question was: what about the harmonised approach in the Member States of sampling and what about European sampling plans? I hope I understood your question correctly. Since 1996, we have had a European approach to residue monitoring. In this context, each Member State must submit a plan to the EU, including the Netherlands. That plan is called the National Plan Residues. This is a monitoring plan based on which tens of thousands of analyses are carried out each year. The number of analyses shall be based on the production of the number of animals in the previous year. Those analyses are carried out by NVWA, i.e. by its own government laboratory, or by RIKILT from Wageningen, on behalf of NVWA. The results go back to Europe. Part of this national plan is research on banned substances, such as hormones and MPA. All these results are evaluated annually. This could lead to a subsequent year, in a follow-up plan, when the new substances are assessed and thus re-examined in a follow-up study. If you ask "what about this harmonised approach?', Then I think that it is quite harmonised and that the year by year is a good way of working. Your second question was about commercial laboratories. You said they didn't have to report the measured exceedances. I understand that this is factually correct. I understand that it was not my choice to report these exceedances because then producers might be less likely to engage such commercial companies. On the other hand, there is always the producer who has to report himself. If he doesn't, there's the NVWA that oversees it. Frankly, I was rather impressed by the number of analyses being carried out. Your third question is about personal certification, measuring quality and making a person within the company responsible for that. You said that I asked the previous Minister a question about this in April 2015. It has not come from feedback and now you are asking me: do you want to examine the possibilities of personal certification and discuss this with the sector? Those are probably literally the same questions you asked my predecessor. Yeah, that's what we want to do. I believe that there has been a great deal of progress in quality systems in the various countries in recent years. All exports have a strong compliance with these quality systems by each producer, as there is often a different quality system per country. Food producers exporting must therefore meet different standards and different quality systems. The field of quality assurance has therefore been strengthened, improved and further developed in recent years. Making someone in the producer's company personally responsible for quality control is a facet that I would like to put in a conversation, for example with the Central Bureau of Food Trade or the LTO. I do not want to anticipate its conclusions, but we must also ensure that we do not turn this into a giant paperwork. That quality assurance has to be like a jacket you put on. In this way one must feel responsible for it, because someone must feel responsible for it. If that's the port of your question, I'd like to pick up that glove. I will inform you more about this, I hope within six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u87	I am very pleased with this commitment from the Minister, because that was the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u88	Fine! The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u89	Then I have one more question, if I'm right. That is Mrs Lodder's question as to whether sufficient lessons have been learned after each incident. When I read through the experiences and incidents of recent years, I see that lessons have been learned systematically from the incidents. We've increased the demands. We pulled the surveillance from the sector to the government. We've taken various measures. I think that the government must maintain an active position to learn from every incident, and so we will. I think that is the task of the NVWA and that is also the task of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u90	This leads to a question from Mrs Lodders. Mrs. Lodders!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u91	Mr President, it may have been a question of the familiar road. I think that over the past period we have had quite a number of fraud debates here. Last summer's fipronil is still in our memory. That is an affair that was really very far-reaching, not only for us but certainly for the entrepreneurs involved. I didn't expect another answer either. The reason why I asked this question is because I think that something else has been suggested. I would therefore like to see that confirmed here. That's what happened, and I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u92	The reconfirmation of this and, one step further, the reporting of Sorgblader will be placed in our midst and we will discuss it here as well. Then we must again prove that we can continue to live up to that active attitude for safe food every day. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u93	We'll see. That seems to be the case. I am looking at colleagues to see if we can get on with the second term and whether there is a need for it. That is the case, because I see Mrs Ouwehand walking forward. I am happy to give Mrs Ouwehand the floor. I would remind all of you that this is a 30-member debate. We had three minutes in the first term and I will now guard the one minute you have for the second term. I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u94	Mr. Chairman. This cabinet will talk more often about food safety. I do not really need to tell you here: there can be no doubt that the government is putting food safety at the top of the list. In this respect, this debate is unsatisfactory, because it is not just about current situations, but also about how this cabinet looks at previous situations where serious doubts have arisen. Of course, it is not about European rules. It is about our own government having to be credible that food safety is paramount, because for MPA, once again, no contamination was acceptable. It is therefore not a question of European rules saying: that means that those 6 million pigs that may have come into contact with that substance should not be placed on the market. We should have done it ourselves! Questions have been raised as to whether the Dutch Government has been able to enforce a different interpretation of the rules in discussions with the European Commission with test results that are now in doubt. We really shouldn't have that discussion. So, Mr President, I think this is an unsatisfactory outcome of the debate. I imagine that I am going to ask many more parliamentary questions, which I hope will be answered satisfactorily in the follow-up discussions on food safety when the Sorgblader Committee's investigation is ready, so that there is no doubt about public health and its defence by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u95	Mrs Ouwehand, you have another interruption by Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u96	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I was very reluctant to interrupt. Actually, I'm curious. It is an unsatisfactory outcome of the debate for Mrs Ouwehand. Can Mrs Ouwehand indicate when the outcome would have been satisfactory for her? Because I think these questions are being asked with all kinds of suggestions or insinuations that Mrs Ouwehand leaves hanging over the market. When will a debate be satisfactory for Mrs Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u97	If the impression is removed that economic interests have played a role in any way or in any way in the consideration of food safety and public health. I do not need to remind Mrs Lodder of the not-best track record the Dutch government has in that area. We're gonna have to get rid of it sometime. I gave the Cabinet the opportunity this evening, but I am not satisfied yet. That is not because I like it; I wish we could get rid of the signals that economic interests play a role in defending food safety and public health. It just can't be!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u98	Finalizing, Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u99	Yes, Mr President, but I have heard both ministers reply very clearly to the questions put by Mrs Ouwehand. Then you either accept those answers, or you say: I do not believe these rulers, but to leave a lot of written questions hanging over the market again and again... Mrs Ouwehand really ought to give her somethin' or somethin', Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u100	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u101	Look, I think these kinds of questions deserve a full debate in the Chamber. Was the Chamber well informed at the time? What are the answers to the reconstruction of The Correspondent? There's a 30-member debate... We could have had a full debate if the VVD had just supported it, but the VVD did not need it. Yes, then it is not weird that we do not get sufficient answers to all the questions in such a very short debate. So those questions will be asked by the Party for the Animals in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u102	As your independent and neutral chairman, I would point out that this is a debate. It has a certain status and title, but it is a debate and, in my opinion, a full debate, based on the idea that it is being held in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u103	With limited speaking time, President,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u104	That's right, but that's how democracy works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u105	...and I can't do as much about that if the VVD doesn't support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u106	I see that Mrs Lodder has something to say, but we have always limited it to two interruptions. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u107	I know that, Mr President, but I have been very reluctant to interrupt. I believe that Mrs Ouwehand is also failing this debate in this house. Every debate that is being held here, whether it is in the plenary or in one of the committee rooms, is a full debate. Two members of the government have been invited, and they have prepared themselves very well and properly, as have all Members of Parliament who have participated in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u108	Mrs Ouwehand may respond to this, but after that I would like to finish this subject, unless you would like to ask Mrs Ouwehand another question, because you are, of course, free to do so, Mr Grashoff; I see you standing at the interrupting microphone. I would first like to give Mrs Ouwehand the opportunity to respond to this. If she appreciates it, at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u109	The rules in this house are that in a 30-member debate you have three minutes' speaking time and a limited number of interruptions. I have more questions and follow-up questions than I could put out in three minutes and a few interruptions. That would have been different if this Chamber had simply decided to hold a full debate and I would have liked to have the VVD on my side. It wasn't supposed to be like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u110	I would like to give Mr Grashoff the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u111	I have no interruption, but a brief personal fact. I believe that Mrs Lodder's contribution here actually calls into question the legitimacy of Mrs Ouwehand's request for a debate. To be honest, I think that is a less fine exercise here in the Chamber, and I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u112	You're free to do that. Then I will see if Mrs Lodders wishes to respond to that, because she may do so if you make a personal statement. As your chairman, I would ask Mrs Lodders to be brief, because I think it is clear how both of you stand in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u113	That has in no way been the intention of the VVD. The VVD has not prepared this debate for nothing. I'm gonna put some time in here tonight, too. I've made a contribution. I think everyone is free to request a debate and hold a debate. That happened tonight. However, I should like to ask Mrs Ouwehand about where she stands, after a thorough reply from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u114	With this I would like to thank Mrs Ouwehand for her contribution, because this was a reaction by Mrs Lodders to Mr Grashoff. I look at Mr Grashoff to see if he needs a second-term contribution. He does. Mr Grashoff also has one minute and a few seconds. Those few seconds are allowed, Mrs Ouwehand, so they will also come if you appreciate them. You have the floor, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u115	Mr. Chairman. In various debates we have had on food issues, I notice that every time there comes back the fact that there is a grey area somewhere in how, when and in what way the public and also companies are informed by or on behalf of the government on food issues. I found the goji berries a very interesting one, where, for example, those values could not be determined. I believe that this should be strengthened so that we do not have a debate every three weeks. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that, in the event of a food crisis, maximum transparency is needed towards consumers, industry and the Chamber, but that it is too often unclear when and how the Dutch Food and War Authority (NVWA) and Ministry should provide information;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with NVWA, to draw up a clear protocol when and how consumers and businesses should be informed of food contamination and send it to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-512]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u116	You mentioned four members, Mr. Chairman. A motion must be supported by at least five Members. I assume you were in on it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u117	I am looking immediately at the Registrar, because if I am asked such a question, I want to know it very precisely. Four members and I'm still here. Mr Geurts wishes to put a question to Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u118	Mr President, I do not want you to have on your mind tomorrow that this motion has been tabled illegally. Anyway, that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u119	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u120	Let's take a look at the contents of the motion. What does GroenLinks mean in relation to what is already required by law? What I hear in your motion at all speed is all prescribed by law. If there are certain values and they are exceeded, the European rules, translated into Dutch law, are that you simply have to tell the public that there are calls, etc. Brief question, Mr President: what does this motion add to what is already happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u121	That's the point that comes back every time. Seriously, I've thought a few times: now I know exactly what it's like. And then we have a new issue and then it turns out to be a little bit different. It's kind of annoying. Then I wonder what's happening now, whether it's really sharp and clear and whether we can really explain how and when the government is providing information. That's very crucial. In the future, if we want to avoid any repetition of this kind of thing every time, a further clarification in a very strict protocol, I think, would be useful. I would therefore ask Mr Geurts to support this motion. We are perfectly capable of dealing with everything that is regulated by law, but it is about whether we understand each other now. Are we doing it exactly the same way? Does it always happen to all these standards? I do not think that this protocol exists in an understandable language at the moment in that sense. If the rulers can convince me that there is, then I ask them to send it to the Chamber as soon as possible. Then I'm gonna read the protocol and see if I understand, and I'm gonna hold the motion during that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u122	Finally, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u123	Well, at least it is not clear to me what this motion adds to what is already required by law. It is not clear to me what Mr Grashoff is looking for. But I might be able to help him. I'd say follow a master class on food safety. Then it all becomes clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u124	This is a remark which confirms a bit that a clear and transparent protocol is needed. Because if I need a whole college of food safety to understand it, there's something wrong with the government's communication strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u125	That also brings you to the end of your speech, Mr Grashoff. I would like to inform Mr Geurts that there are indeed five Members who need to support the presentation. You're absolutely right about that. But you have supported it all four times, and of course you have supported the petitioner of the motion. That makes five after all. We're coming to Mr. De Groot. He's gonna give up his speaking time. Mr Geurts still wants to respond to me. I'll allow him, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u126	Mr President, I do not really want a discussion with the President, especially if he is legally competent. But you mentioned four MPs supporting the motion. That was wrong. It's gotta be five, including the signatory. But that's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u127	We're making a big deal of this now. We have already dealt with the substance of the motion. I propose that it be put to the vote at least, and I note that there are a sufficient number of Members here. I'm looking at Mrs. Lodders. Does it still need a second-term contribution? That is not the case. Mr Futselaar does not need that either. Then we come to the second term of the rulers. In any case, they have to respond to the motion tabled. Do they still need a suspension? That is not the case. I call the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food. Excuse me, Minister. I'm gonna have to push the button. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not easy with the buttons. Mr Bruins will respond to the motion. However, I would like to say a few words to Mrs Ouwehand. At first, she did not think it was transparent in her speech, she said that it was not clear how the decision-making had taken place and whether it had actually taken place in accordance with the rules. Then she finally said: it does not matter whether it happened according to European rules; we should draw our own line. That is what she said just now, when Mr Bruins was speaking, when I tried very hard to meet Mrs Ouwehand, namely by looking for the relevant piece in which it is loud and clear that the Netherlands has acted according to the rules. That piece exists and was also sent to the Chamber in 2002. I would also like to spread that piece to Mrs Ouwehand through you, Mr President. She has indeed often talked about suggestions. I would like to spread that piece in order to at least remove the suggestions that it has been simply contra empty, or at least in a shadowy back room. That is not the case. I can present the report to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u129	Mrs Ouwehand seems to want to accept that offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u130	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Then I guess it's okay if it's sent to the whole room. Then I'm gonna read it. And if we no longer have any questions after this document has been distributed, the debate will be closed. But it could be that I still have written follow-up questions. The Minister will see that on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u131	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u132	I would like to comment on Mrs Ouwehand's final point. Of course, that's always open to her. Asking written questions is one of the means available to it. However, I would have liked to have promised here that the many suggestions that have been raised could at least be taken away. And that it is also not the case that we would like to withhold something and that it would have been shady or something like that. I would like Mrs Ouwehand to appreciate that at least for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u133	I am giving that opportunity to Mrs Ouwehand, but then I would like to finish, if I can. I'm trying to work the people. I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u134	Yes, Mr President, I also recalled in my terms that we received a letter from the previous cabinet. And these ministers are new. I think that the letter did not address enough all the questions raised by the reconstruction in the Correspondent's article. We have a 30-member debate on this. That's limited. I still have questions with me. So I would very much like us to be able to eliminate all the impressions and doubts that have emerged from that reconstruction. This debate has not provided a sufficient opportunity for this. There's nothing the Cabinet can do about that. The cabinet's just new, too. But I think I do have other questions. I just want to do justice to the issue on the table. Also because we are going to talk a lot about food safety and the way in which the cabinet deals with it, I think we can leave no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u135	Finally, on this point, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u136	Again, Mrs Ouwehand is always free to ask questions. In fact, that's her role. Wherever the cabinet can, it will simply do everything in its power to provide the information, and I tried to do so tonight, together with Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u137	With this we come to the Minister for Medical Care to answer the questions that have been asked to him in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u138	Mr. Chairman. If I see correctly, that is mainly Mr Grashoff's motion. It is a pity, however, that we have not managed to clarify here in the last hour and a half about the protocol that has been appointed in the motion. Maybe I can try one more time. If there is a threat of an incident, if there is a signal, then the three steps are: risk assessment, risk management, risk communication. On the basis of that assessment, a decision on the measures will follow. That may be that a product has to be withdrawn from the market, or not. That's a matter of customization. Communication to the public depends on the estimated risk to public health. That's how clear it is. In doing so, I thought that I had already given sufficient substance to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u139	This minister is well-painted in all kinds of functions he has held. I remember him from a past where we worked together on things that were also complicated, but perhaps a little less complicated than this. What the Minister says here raises more questions than it answers. Concepts such as "generally acceptable daily intake," "measurable percentages" and so on are constantly emerging. So behind every remark made by the Minister here, if you are really talking about a protocol, there should be a freely established method of assessment and measurement and so on. That is not to look for nails on low water, but because this is an incredibly important social issue that concerns us time and time again. I did not mention the gojiberry case for nothing, where again there was a lack of clarity as to whether or not information should have been provided. If the Minister says he's got this all worked out in writing and it's a little less thick than a phone book, I'd say send it over. Then I'm gonna read it, and if that's enough, it's done. I'd be happy to hold the motion until then. If, in my opinion, that still leaves all the questions open, I will come back with that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u140	The Minister, in conclusion, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u141	Yes, and that is my only point, Mr President. It is an assessment of the risks to public health. This is, therefore, based on the three steps I have mentioned: on the basis of the assessment of the measures to be taken, whether or not products should be withdrawn from the market, and public communication depends on the estimated risk to public health. I think that's as ready as a whistle. There can be no misunderstanding about that. That task is entrusted to the NVWA. Sampling has been agreed at European level. That's not caught like a little nebenbei thing, but people spend a whole year doing it; that's learning from year to year. I think that's a good system. It's always worth discussing here. But an extra protocol seems to me to be extra paper. I suggest that the motion be dissuaded. Well, I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u142	The Secretary of State is dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u143	That's right, and I'm not gonna hold her for all the clarity. I think it is a very unsatisfactory answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u144	Mr Grashoff does not hold the motion. I would like to take a look around the Chamber and note that we have come to the end of this debate and thus of this Chamber week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-16-tweedekamer-13.u145	The motion tabled by Mr Grashoff will be put to the vote next Tuesday at the regular votes. Thank you all for your commitment. I thank the two directors for their presence and their staff for answering all the questions.
