ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u1	Once again, I welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u2	Mr. Chairman. Other MPs of the SP and other political groups have often pointed to the violations of workers' rights in the European Patent Office. This situation has been going on for years now and it is time for the Netherlands as a fellow host country of the EPO to assume its responsibility and intervene. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, under the leadership of the current President of the European Patent Office, the social conditions within that office have deteriorated significantly and that this President is also given a very poor judgment in various investigations conducted by the Office's clients;]] [[noting that the Management Board exercises disciplinary control over the President of the Office;]] [[considers that the European Patent Office should be both a good employer and a good service provider and that the EPO cannot comply with the current President's retention;]] [[calls on the Government, within the Governing Board of the EPO, to urge the President to leave early and to speed up the standardisation of industrial relations in the EPO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u3	These abuses often cannot be dealt with now, because the drivers abuse their immunity to violate workers' rights. With the next motion, the SP wants to investigate to what extent the immunity of drivers is still justified when fundamental rights of people are violated. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are undesirable situations within the European Patent Office established in the Netherlands such as the violation of workers' rights;]] [[noting that the Protocol of Privileges and Immunities of the EPO prevents action;]] [[considers that such immunities are never intended to allow violations of human rights to take place without penalty;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to put an end to such undesirable situations and to revise these arrangements for the future, for example by opening the debate on the scope and interpretation of such immunities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25883-291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to use the VSO to put a number of questions to the Secretary of State for clarification. During the written consultation, the Secretary of State indicated that the Netherlands has repeatedly and urgently called for an improvement in the social situation and will continue to work on the board to improve social relations in the organisation. Can the Secretary of State indicate to the Chamber in detail how he is going to do this and how cooperation with other countries is going to proceed? The Secretary of State also indicated that he was actively involved with other countries in the development of new regulations in the field of internal investigation procedures, disciplinary measures and review procedures. How's this going? How does the Secretary of State intend to ensure that this is speeded up? We're all waiting for a result. Finally, I would like to ask a question. No society or organisation can be healthy if there are no countervailing powers. Mr Elias is no longer with us in the Chamber, but in his Dutch he is against forces. Although 26 out of 38 participating countries voted in favour of measures last year and 12 abstained, nothing has changed. There is a huge majority for cooperation from the 38 countries. That hardly ever happens. The CDA's question is thus as follows. If such a large majority of countries are not yet able to bring about concrete changes, how are we going to achieve that? The current director, who appeared today with a beautiful picture in a Dutch daily, has been appointed until June 2018. If it's okay, he'll be followed next year. Or, if we get to know his M.O. a little bit, he's already made sure he stays in place. In other words, if we want it with such a large group of countries, how is the Secretary of State going to get someone new in charge? How is he going to ensure that the current director is not automatically re-elected and that after June 2018 we don't still have a problem with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u5	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u6	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u7	Mr. Chairman. Two motions have been tabled and Mr Van Helvert has asked a number of questions. It might be the most useful thing for me to answer those questions first. I think the Chamber will understand my judgements on the motion. We have spoken on this subject before in the Chamber. Mr Hijink's predecessors were also very active in this. Mr Kerstens of the PvdA, as well as other MPs, have always been very critical of working conditions within the European Patent Office. The Netherlands is one of the most active and also one of the most critical Member States on the Management Board when it comes to improving the social situation. Mr Van Helvert asked what I actually do. Let me give you a few examples. The Netherlands was one of the initiators of the resolution adopted by the Governing Board calling for improvement. The Netherlands was also one of the initiators of the social audit, which identified the whole social situation and also the possibilities for improvement. That audit has also resulted in improvement plans. The Netherlands is one of the most critical members within the board of directors and the executive board, not only in words, but also in voting behaviour. I myself spoke with President Battistelli on 4 March last year, and I can say that that was a rather strong conversation. I have also personally expressed my concerns in that regard. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has done the same recently. He expressed his concerns with the Vice-President of the European Patent Office. We are also actively participating in a review of the internal staff regulations. The commitment is to make them more transparent and to improve the legal and social position of workers, for example by reviewing the professional and research procedures. That's what we're gonna do. We seek as much support as possible from like-minded countries. Mr Van Helvert mentioned the voting relationship. It also shows that we are able to ensure that like-minded countries work with us to improve the situation within the European Patent Office. Decision-making on the review of professional and investigative procedures is foreseen in June. Mr van Helvert also asked about the position of the President of the European Patent Office. This is also the subject of the Heink/Ouwehand motion. 290. That position will be vacant in about a year. The procedure is now being opened. It's an open procedure. Ultimately, the Management Board will decide who will be the next President of the European Patent Office. If we're lucky, the new president can be elected this fall. I think it is important that the process should be conducted in a proper and orderly manner and that in all respects we should choose a good candidate who can also ensure the restoration of social relations in the organisation. In the motion in part No. 290 is actually being asked: should you not start the discussion on the departure of the current President at the moment when the procedure for a new candidate starts and insist on a rapid standardisation of industrial relations at the EPO? I have just said that we are fully committed to the standardization of industrial relations. Now that a discussion is starting on the early departure of the current President, as his mandate expires in a year, we will soon start the procedure for his succession and we expect to elect a new President this autumn, I do not think we are contributing to what we want to achieve. We do indeed want to improve the social situation within the European Patent Office. We have been working for this in recent times. It is about the importance of workers within the European Patent Office. We also support this in view of the relationships within the Governing Board. I do not expect there to be support for the line proposed by Mr Hijink here. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u8	Working conditions at the European Patent Office cannot be separated from the President's actions. In view of everything that the government has done so far, I believe that the Netherlands is among the most critical countries of the supervisory countries, but it has not yet achieved any results. What will happen in the coming year if the President remains in office and if he also has to keep the supervisory board informed that he can sit still for a year, while we all know that the conditions for the workers, for the people who work there, have not improved at all? As far as I'm concerned, you can't see those two things apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u9	Mr Hijink failed not only the Dutch cabinet but also the efforts of his own predecessor in the Chamber, Mrs Gesthuizen. Partly because of her commitment it has often been discussed here and the Dutch cabinet has also acted as a very critical member of the board of directors. As a member, we are one of many, and yet we have succeeded in achieving real improvements, which can also count on broad support within the board of directors. The social audit wouldn't have come if we hadn't been so committed to it. The improvements that are now being made, which are planned for next month's decision-making, would not have been achieved if the Dutch cabinet had not done so well. I said before that the President sometimes plays a role in that social situation that is not very helpful. That is also what I explained to him in a thorough discussion we had last year on this subject. I have also noticed that it is sometimes difficult to convince him that a different attitude would be more helpful in the necessary changes within the European Patent Office. I would therefore like to focus on the improvements that will take place next month's decision-making. Let us continue on that agenda, for which there is broad support, rather than squandering our credit on something that is not going to happen, by pressing for the President's early departure. That's never been shown before. Looking at how the other Member States have behaved so far, my assessment is that there is broad support for the position of the President, but also for our position, which states that the necessary changes must be made within the European Patent Office. I think it would be wiser for us to commit ourselves to this. In the end, that's what makes the workers the most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u10	There has been talk earlier of a possible early departure of this president. That's how crazy the thought is that he's not perfect for his period. Secretary of State says a lot has happened. Why do the people who work there notice so little of that? They don't pull the alarm almost every week for nothing. Why should it take a year before a new president can be installed, who can implement the good ideas that exist to improve the situation in the workplace? We're going to wait a year now, while thousands of people who work there are more than tired of intimidation. They will be put on hold for another year. That is what the Secretary of State will do if he does not want to make a fuss about this in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u11	Let me go along with Mr Hijink's thoughts. Suppose we started that discussion now, how quickly does he think it would lead to decision-making in a body such as the Management Board, in which so many Member States are represented? I believe that this will take longer than the procedure for the successor of the President of the European Patent Office, which is now under way. You can't change the world on your own if you move. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way. I have said so far: let us focus on what we have successfully fought for, namely improving the social situation within the European Patent Office. There was a lot of reason for that. We've taken steps in that direction. I agree with Mr Hijink that perhaps we could have done even more if we had been in control alone, but we have already achieved a great deal from the active and critical role we have played in this. The Chamber can expect the government to continue to do so and will also work for an open procedure to create a candidate for the presidency who can restore social relations within the European Patent Office. Mr Hijink has tabled a second motion, again together with Mrs Ouwehand, the motion in part No. 291. On this subject, the Chamber held a wide-ranging general consultation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs not so long ago, but before the elections on 14 December. This was about the diplomatic immunity of international organizations, among others. Following these general consultations, the Minister for Foreign Affairs had a discussion with the Vice-President of the European Patent Office. It informed the Chamber by letter dated 23 February 2017. Diplomatic immunity is very important for the proper functioning of international organisations. This applies here, but also elsewhere in the world. But that does not mean that there are no standards within these international organisations. The same applies to the European Patent Office. In fact, you say that violations of human rights must not go unpunished. That is not possible, not even within the European Patent Office. This immunity doesn't go that far. We are committed to improving the situation within the EPO. If you wish, you can continue the discussion on immunity with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is of course the first person to do so. You are asking for an international debate to be opened on the scope and interpretation of such immunities. The government is not in favour of that, so I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u12	Would the Secretary of State be prepared to at least leave the judgment to the Chamber if we were not to talk about revising the immunity agreements, but about examining them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u13	You address me to my responsibility for fulfilling the board membership of the European Patent Office. My responsibility is not about the immunity of international organisations. If you want to have a debate on this, you really should have it with the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u14	I'm just speaking to the government. I think I can ask the Secretary of State to get to work on that. It does not seem to me that that necessarily belongs to one minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u15	In general, the responsibilities are divided within a cabinet. I have already referred to the general consultations which the Chamber has had with the Foreign Minister on this matter. That's where it belongs. There the Chamber has also been made clear that, of course, the cabinet does not want to interfere with the agreements on immunity for international organisations. They are also of great importance for the Netherlands as the location of many international organisations. If you want to discuss this further with the Cabinet, whether you want an investigation, an adjustment or whatever, then you should discuss it with the Foreign Minister. I must advise against the requests you make to this effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u16	A very short question, because you've already interrupted twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u17	I don't think what I'm asking is very unreasonable. It's just that this can be investigated. Of course, immunity can never be a reason to put human rights aside. If we as host countries give organisations a place and there are quite gross violations of human rights or workers' rights within those organisations...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u18	Can you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u19	I cannot imagine that this Secretary of State will think that this is part of the system as we have agreed. Then I can ask him to investigate this within the possibilities he has in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u20	You are suggesting that the immunity of international organisations is a licence to violate human rights. It doesn't go that far. Once again, the discussion on this matter really needs to take place with the Foreign Minister. By way of motion, you request that the agreements be amended. Orally, you propose to change that into an examination of it. That, too, seems undesirable to me. I refer to the debate which the Chamber has had with the Foreign Minister on this matter. I'll continue to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-tweedekamer-18.u21	I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. We will then continue with the debate on the outcome of the European summit.
