ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	The Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment will replace the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I call Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. The fact that I am standing here proves that the Netherlands is a country of equality of opportunity. Any discrimination undermines that identity of the Netherlands, the country where your wallet, identity or origin counts, but your future. It is therefore with great concern that the GroenLinks Group has taken note of the report that over 550 reports of pregnancy discrimination have been received by the College of Human Rights in two weeks. Employers should not deprive women of opportunities simply because they are women or want to give birth to a child. Totally unacceptable, as the Minister for Social Affairs rightly said. I therefore welcome the Minister's action plan against pregnancy discrimination, which requires women and employers to provide more information on their rights and obligations during pregnancy. But is that enough? At least the Human Rights College doesn't think so. The College says that the current approach to pregnancy discrimination needs to be further strengthened. My question is, therefore, what is the government going to do to strengthen the current situation? How does the Minister explain that so many reports suddenly came in? Does she dare to acknowledge here that the problem of pregnancy discrimination has been underestimated for years because the Social Affairs Inspectorate did not have a good hotline? In short, is the Minister prepared to take additional measures against pregnancy discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. My colleague from SZW is currently in the First Chamber, so I'm helping replace him. I do know that he finds it totally unacceptable that there is discrimination during pregnancy. Same goes for me. I know my mom got fired when she was pregnant. She worked in education. The law allowed that to happen back then. Luckily, it's not allowed anymore. It was of course very strange times, that after such a happy message you were also immediately put aside. It is therefore a good thing that discrimination and exclusion are prohibited. Pregnancy discrimination in job applications and in the event of the renewal of a contract is a very serious matter and should not be accepted. What does the Minister of SZW, the Cabinet, do about it? There are various activities. Mr Özdil mentioned all the measures against pregnancy discrimination that had just been presented to the Chamber in March 2017. One of its components is a point of contact where notifications are made. That window has only been opened very recently and a lot of reports have indeed been made in a short space of time. The first step you need to take before you consider what you are doing on top of such a plan of approach is to analyse the reports well. Then you can find out where it takes place, what it consists of and what actions can best be taken. At a state level, discrimination is really being tackled very severely. For example, no business is done with companies that discriminate. Companies that do not have their discrimination approach in order are addressed by the Labour Discrimination Team in the inspection. That was Mr Özdil's other question: what about the inspection? I know she did some 200 business surveys in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u5	I'm glad the Minister agrees with what I just said. I am also pleased that she thinks that the reports should be examined, if not that the reports have already been examined, namely by the Human Rights College. I also mentioned all the other measures mentioned by the Minister. They're already being taken; that's already happening. But they don't seem to be enough. So I repeat my question: what else is this cabinet going to do? Or does the Minister accept that so many women are still discriminated against because they become pregnant?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u6	I understand there are several plans. In addition to the specific plan for pregnancy discrimination, there is also a general action plan against labour market discrimination. Mr Plasterk has just provided a national action programme against discrimination in a broad sense. That was also in March 2017. I also understand that there may be a further need for further analysis of the reports that are being made. The hotline has only been opened for two weeks. So we've got reports coming in now. Then we have to look at the background, how they came about and which ones are correct and which are not. I would therefore ask Mr Özdil to give us a moment to make up for that analysis. He will see my colleague from SZW often enough to ask him afterwards when he has chosen it and whether a follow-up step is needed, or whether the instruments we now have are some of 22 measures in the recent Action Plan.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u7	I thank the Minister for her answers. I will follow closely the next steps. I will repeat my point here. That deeper analysis does not need to be made as far as I am concerned, because it has already been made. It is, in fact, pregnancy discrimination. But I look forward to monitoring and improving this not only with the Minister, but also with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u8	The cabinet has taken action against pregnancy discrimination in response to an adopted chamberal motion. Now I have a very specific question, in which I can imagine that the substitute for the Minister of SZW cannot answer it. But I'm curious. We always hear that Minister Asscher ensures that the government does not deal with companies that have been irrevocably convicted of discrimination. The same applies to pregnancy discrimination. I would very much like to know whether that is the practice now, and not just words. In how many cases is that so? I would also like to know whether the reports made at the Human Rights College are also about government employers. I would, of course, find that completely insufferable, and I would expect even more action from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u9	The question is indeed a little too detailed for me to answer at the moment. What I know, and what I have heard from my colleague, is that the government does not deal with discriminatory companies, that companies that do not have their anti-discrimination policies in place, are dealt with by the labour discrimination team in the inspection, and that so far 200 visits are involved. I do not know which companies are involved and whether they are public companies. Mr Van Weyenberg could also ask the Minister of SZW at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u10	The question was whether there might be a letter to the Chamber. You can only repeat what you have just said, Mr Van Weyenberg, otherwise it will count as a second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u11	I wouldn't dare, Mr. Chairman. But I would like an answer from the SZW Minister this week to both questions, because paper is patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u12	I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u13	I find this report on discrimination against pregnant women quite shocking. I sometimes sigh at these kinds of reports that it seems that for some employers we still live in the nineteenth century. My question to the Minister, and I can imagine that it might be somewhat difficult for this Minister to answer, is above all: how do we tackle this cultural problem? Because this problem seems to be in the minds of employers who think about the labour market in an old-fashioned way and how you deal with men and women. There just needs to be equal treatment in the workplace. How do we tackle this bigger cultural problem right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u14	It wasn't just normal in the nineteenth century, by the way. My mother's example, which I just gave, even came from the 20th century. That was 1970. It's been quite recent that women had such an unequal position. Of course, you need to go wider on this. You can't just design a plan on the drawing board. I know that there were also round tables with social partners and other key stakeholders in September 2016 and January 2017 to see how such a joint approach could best be developed. After all, it must thrive in all these organisations. A lot of ideas have come out of it. The participants have also shown a very strong commitment to solve it. Based on these ideas, the Action Plan was drawn up in March 2017. This includes 13 new additional measures to tackle pregnancy discrimination vigorously. Those measures are aimed at enforcement, education, awareness, reporting and registration. There is also a focus on the work discrimination team. Furthermore, direct and personal information is provided to women, with the efforts of organisations that are also involved in the care of pregnant women, calls are made through social media about the importance of reporting pregnancy discrimination, you name it. There's a lot in it. I think the plan is in the Chamber now. So perhaps the Chamber could discuss it in greater depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you.
