ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Since 1954 we have been dealing with this Kingdom in the Statute, the Statute of which the VVD and also the SP have been saying for a number of years that it is compelling and compelling and perhaps not always optimal. We would have liked it to be different, but as long as we are in the Statute as it is, we have responsibilities; not only the Netherlands, but also other countries. If there are problems with other countries where intervention is necessary, I expect it to be dealt with normally, but that is not the case. I refer to the concerns that there are in Saint Martin not only with regard to crime, but also with regard to integrity. There is a report from 2014 on which we are very clearly asked to do something about this integrity. Sint-Maarten makes agreements with the Netherlands every time to do so and leaves it there every time. What Sint-Maarten needs is integrity in governance: integrity in people who are responsible for good governance. It's impossible for me for a prime minister to say, "I'm not gonna do it," and if you want to, send the troops. Sint-Maarten is not alone in that. Also Curaçao, who wanted to negotiate with the elections, says: boy, send the firing squad. Mr. Chairman. If that's the Kingdom in 2017, then I'm very disappointed. I ask the Minister what is still worth the Statute, what is still worth the Kingdom and how we deal with each other in this Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Kingdom is a link between four countries bound by a statute. If countries exist in that Kingdom, they must comply with the legal decisions taken in relation to the Kingdom. This recently prompted the National Council of Ministers to give a lead to Curaçao to continue the elections that had been lawfully held. That is then the case. We also put the governor in a position to ensure that he remains so. The same applies to the integrity of Saint Martin. There were four studies that showed that the underworld and the upperworld were too often and too intensive. This gave rise to a General Measure of the Government. At that time, the incumbent government of Sint-Maarten said that it wanted to reach an agreement on the basis of consensus with the Dutch government. This is page by page initialled by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice of Saint Martin and by the colleague of V and J and me on the Dutch side. Now the incumbent Prime Minister has said: we are still doing it in the shredder. So as the National Council of Ministers, we came back to where we were. Then it will have to be done at AMvRB. It was sent to the Council of State last week and we await the advice. Once again, I really assume that if a general measure is taken, it will be adhered to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. We are in complete agreement. The VVD supports the actions of the Minister and the National Council of Ministers. I think it is very sensible that we should act decisively. In a distant past we have sometimes paid too little attention to the countries in the Kingdom, so all kinds of things have got out of the band. I think it would be wise if we were to tighten the reins and certainly assume the responsibilities within the Kingdom. The Minister does not answer my question of how we deal with each other in the Kingdom. For the technical implementation he and this Council of Ministers receive the support of the VVD. But it is not important to deal with each other in this tone and to say: the Netherlands, send the firing squad. We are talking about voting, especially in Curaçao. Elections are coming and in the Netherlands too you sometimes see some tightening, so they say: send the firing squad. On Saint Martin it is said: send troops, or I will not do it. That can never be the relationship to deal with each other in the Kingdom. I would like to hear whether the Minister has had a discussion on this, and if so, what discussion, or perhaps he is going to have, in order to clarify this kind of relationship. At least on the Dutch side it is not desirable that we get voting on the islands in this way towards the Netherlands and perhaps towards the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Bosman for his support, even in recent years, for the policy towards the Kingdom. I think that after 10-10 we are indeed moving towards a situation in which we take each other fully and seriously. This also means that we take the agreements we make among ourselves seriously and that we talk about them in a normal way. When I saw that message, with the choice of words in it, I informed the representative that I had disturbed myself, I would like to say, but I would like to leave it at that. I had a clear view of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	Yeah, rounding it up. I think that this is a level in which we, as directors, should have a little talk and look each other in the eye, not to tell officials through all kinds of departments what we think. In order to convince each other that we do not deal with each other in this way and that we do not do so, in order to avoid unnecessary pressure on the links, the Prime Minister of the Netherlands or the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations should, in my opinion, at least discuss it at ministerial level, but I suggest that this be the case. Such texts are not conducive to mutual relations, and certainly not when it comes to possible behaviour towards Dutch people on the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thanks for the suggestion. I'll pick my own moment eventually. I would like to say that the General Measure of Government lies with the Council of State. I hope for an early meeting in the National Council of Ministers and then there will be a decision-making process. I'm assuming everyone's gonna stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you.
