ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome His Royal Highness Prince Constantine, who is in the chair. He is present in the Chamber today at the invitation of the Chamber. I would like to thank him for sharing his ideas on accountability with us today. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the President of the General Court, as well as the people in the public gallery. Also the students of Aventus from Deventer I don't know exactly where they are; yes, I see them waving now! I would like to welcome you. Today they are taught here in the Lower House about the responsibility of the government. I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u2	Madam President. This is the fifth time I've been standing in front of you on Accountant Day. Anyone who puts all these accounting days next to each other sees a clear development. About 2012 the gloomy message was: we received little gift last year. By 2015, public finances were already much stronger, but we could not yet talk about a top condition like that of Dafne Schippers. To stay in this atmosphere, one could say that our economy last year had Tom Dumoulin's ausdauer, although society does not yet have the cheerfulness of Churandy Martina. With that ausdauer we reached the front of the peloton again last year after a long climb. In 2016, the economic recovery continued sharply, with a growth rate of 2.2%. This growth had a broad basis: domestic demand, exports and business investment were doing well. There's a lot of confidence in our economy. A record number of 215,000 houses was sold. The number of underwater mortgages is dropping rapidly. About 110,000 jobs were added. As a result, unemployment fell from almost 7% in 2015 to 6% in 2016. Purchasing power increased by 2.7% last year for an average household. Public finances were a lot healthier in 2016 than the cabinet had hoped when it took office. In the Opening Note of late 2012 we assumed a deficit of 1.9% for 2016. It became a surplus of 0.4%, or 2.9 billion. More good news: government debt fell to 434 billion euros in 2016, 32 billion less than expected. As a percentage of GDP, the debt fell from the estimated 70.4% to 62.3% of GDP. The Netherlands complied in all respects with the budgetary rules that we impose on ourselves and those which the European countries agree with each other. Expenditure on unemployment in 2016 was almost one billion lower than expected. As every year, we spent more on healthcare, namely 72.6 billion in total. That's a huge amount of money, but it was 2 billion less than expected. The healthcare costs also show that the long-term sustainability of public finances is going well, as unlike previous forecasts, healthcare expenditure growth in 2016 remained below the growth of the economy. That is exceptional, because the hard growing healthcare expenditure hung like a dark cloud over the sustainability of our finances for years. However, in this latter success there is also a warning, because sustainability requires constant discipline. In view of all the uncertainties in the world, caution is advisable, even in the future. So the difference between expectation and reality often worked out well for the budget, but not always. We also made choices because they were just needed, regardless of the impact on the budget. For example, the government decided in 2016 to further reduce gas extraction in Groningen for safety and to prevent damage. As a result, revenue from the extraction of gas was 3.8 billion less than budgeted. Compared to the 2012 Start note, these were over 13 billion less than expected. I'm on financial management. Over the past year, the government's operations complied with the 99% standard we set ourselves. Almost all the obligations, revenue and expenditure of the Empire were legitimate. The Tax Office has never raised so much: EUR 258,8 billion. They succeeded despite major organizational problems. That is reassuring but not enough, because the organisation of the Tax Administration still lacks a lot, the Borstlap/Joustra Committee already showed. The findings and recommendations of that committee are therefore reflected in the eight shortcomings identified by the General Court of Auditors for the Tax Administration. The necessary conversion of the Tax Administration is greater than was estimated a few years ago. We've got a big job to do. The same applies to the other departments in which the Court of Auditors found weaknesses. At the same time, I note that last year's three qualifications have been eliminated. Over the past four years, my public finance story has become increasingly positive. The numbers moved further towards green at every season change. The economy gained strength year after year. Yet the job is not done; it is never done. After all, how do we increase the opportunities for our economy? And, more importantly, how do we increase the chances for all people? In the current year we will continue to work on this, because 2017 can be even better than 2016. Certainly, the economic ausdauer of recent years gives confidence for the future, but then we must remain cautious and create opportunities for everyone and thus, like Tom Dumoulin, unbridled. With that thought, I would like to offer you the financial annual report of the Empire for 2016 and the other accountability documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to the President of the General Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u4	Madam President, Minister. First of all, I congratulate you, Members of the House of Representatives, on your election as a representative of the people. In the coming years it is up to you to check on behalf of all Dutch people whether the tax money is being spent wisely, economically and carefully. But to do so, you need to have a look at the effects of public money. The objective of public accountability is to see, learn and improve. We are happy to support you in this task with our independent judgment. Today is the first Day of Accountability of this House of Representatives. I'm sure you're full of ambition. It is also, I suspect, the final responsibility of this cabinet. What exactly do you find? What is the state of the country? To what extent have your predecessors managed to achieve their ambitions? What is the legacy of this cabinet? Accountability day is the moment when you get an insight into it. You can take stock of the past period. You can see what you can learn from it for the next period. Your task is secured in your constitutional right to information. That right did not coincide with the ministerial responsibility in the Constitution in 1848, because ministerial responsibility and your right to information are inextricably linked. Everything is about transparency, openness and the open conversation between the Chamber and the Cabinet about this: public resources, public control. The role of the General Court is that of an independent auditor. We'll help you with the explanation. We control the responsibility for you, the People's Assembly, so that you can give discharge. We are asking three questions for that control and for that investigation. A: Did the ministers collect and spend the money according to the rules in 2016? Two: are things well organized in the ministries? Three: do ministers have sufficient insight into the impact of the policy? In the end, the answer to these three questions must answer the question of whether taxpayers' money is well organized, arrived at the right place, achieving the intended effect. That's what you want to know. Before I go into that question, I will take you to France in the nineteenth century. There is the tragic life of Madame Bovary, the protagonist of the eponymous novel by Gustave Flaubert. The young Emma is married to a country doctor, Bovary. She's bored and wants to escape her boring existence. Somewhere in the book, Flaubert describes how Emma Bovary and a man other than her husband step into the carriage, after which the curtains remain closed during the ride. What happened there is guessed; it is not told. But that riddle was the reason to prosecute the author and ban the book for a long time. It would be immoral. With this they fell into the literary trap set by Flaubert. He deliberately wanted to leave what happened in that carriage to the imagination. Those who call it immoral and reject it betray themselves. I use this comparison to underline the importance of information and its sharing. After all, those who don't tell part of the story run the risk of someone else filling it out and maybe telling something that isn't true. Fantasy may be fun in a novel, but you can't risk it when it comes to spending public money. In this respect, politics should be unimaginative. I told you before: openness and transparency and no speculation, no closed curtains. Today is about the tension between knowing and not knowing. With this approach we come to the answer to the three questions. The answer to question one, namely whether the money was spent according to the rules, is sound. In 2016, 99.6% of government expenditure was legitimate and even 99.9% of revenue was lawful. So we approve the bill. However, that is not the whole story. There is tension between what we do know about the legality of public money and what we do not know about the social effects of public money. So, like last year, I would add that in many cases this legality means nothing more than that the Minister has transferred the correct amount to the correct account number. So we look further and then we come to the answer to question 2, namely whether things are well arranged in the ministries. This year we see that something goes wrong in 36 places in business. We call that flaws. That 36 is an increase compared to last year. At the same time, last year I stood here and said: three serious shortcomings. Those have been reduced by hard work from the Departments of Security and Justice, the Department of Defence and the Department of Finance to normal shortcomings, and that deserves a compliment. I'll add something to it. Problems can only be solved when they are known and recognized by rulers. That reality is sometimes different. For example, this year there are examples of directors who do not or do not clearly recognise problems in management. As an example, our assessment of the security of information can serve. Two years ago, we said that information security was given administrative attention, but too little and too late. That is why we have now done extensive research into it. We've been looking at the so-called critical systems. The security of sensitive data on citizens and businesses managed by the government should always be guaranteed, but not all departments have taken the necessary measures. Unfortunately, the reactions of the US ministers, of EZ and also of the Defense Department show that they do not recognize themselves in the results of our investigation. At the same time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs states that the Minister for Information Security is responsible for managing information security on a national scale and that that security does indeed have shortcomings. Again, problems can only be solved if they are acknowledged, not if they are denied or trivialized. I would also like to draw attention to the staff of the government. Our research shows that the Empire can find people with financial expertise or technical knowledge of ICT difficult, while in these areas the challenges are great. We know that in vital areas a lack of expertise can affect an organization. We also know that there is a financial commitment from previous Cabinets to further reduce the civil service. How these problems are solved? It is not clear from the plans and it does require your attention. Then the IRS and the Treasury Department. They're facing quite a challenge, as you just heard. We note that there are eight shortcomings which are all related to the Tax Administration. This service is still under pressure despite efforts to modernise. In fact, the tax administration's investment agenda is stagnating, and that is a serious and not to be underestimated problem. That is a problem you must be aware of after the many debates you have had with the rulers and the information you have had in recent times. Our investigation confirms what you know and clarifies the places it lacks. The rulers recognize and recognise the problem and take responsibility. You just heard that, too. They know and they share it. The room knows. Experience has shown that this is a crucial step towards the solution. It is now important to strike the right balance between modernising the tax administration on the one hand and achieving new political ambitions in the tax field on the other. I come to question three: does the policy have the desired effects? That question is difficult to answer, because, like previous years, our message is that much is not clear. Whether the citizen has received value for money should be the key question in public accountability is our idea. Is it then desirable to leave the effectiveness of the policy to the imagination? Unfortunately, like the previous years, we have to conclude that the curtains remain regularly closed. An example of this is the policy aimed at children who need just a little more to move forward in education. The appropriate education was introduced for them in 2014. The idea behind it is not to focus on limitations of students, but on their possibilities. Schools asked and schools got more space to give students who need extra support, too. The idea was that this would be simpler, less bureaucracy and, not insignificantly, more effective resources, including for Parliament. We have looked at the effects in practice. We know that EUR 2.4 billion has been made available for light and heavy support in primary and secondary education. However, the understanding of its use is limited despite good intentions. For example, it is not clear how many children in mainstream education need additional support. This is not kept, despite a motion from the Chamber to do so. However, there is a record of how many children receive extra support. We examined the register in which that is stated, and we saw that the number of students receiving additional support has decreased since the introduction of appropriate education. But whether it is true is a question mark, because our research also shows that one school puts a tick in the register, while the other school doesn't think it is necessary. That doesn't make that count reliable. Conclusion: no one therefore knows whether the adjustment, the approach to the appropriate education, is aimed at. How can you learn from the beautiful projects that blossom? How can you adjust? We don't know a lot, and that opens the door to speculation. Closed curtains again. A second example is the policy aimed at improving air quality by Rijk, province and municipalities. Air quality in our country has improved, but we have little idea of the actual use of the three layers of government together. Is the cleaner air we have a direct consequence of these measures? We don't know. Maybe we could have achieved the same thing with less money. Maybe we could have done more with the same money. Who knows? Now you ask yourself: what is the cause of this and how do we solve this? An important explanation is the way the government is organized. While taxes are largely collected at national level, implementation is organized elsewhere, monitored elsewhere and assessed elsewhere without any clear rules on prior information. It may therefore be that the first question of legality and the second question of the organization of the Empire in each municipality is answered positively to each school, but that at the same time no one has an answer to the third question, which is about its social impact. It is not imaginary that bad results or incidents at a ministry, a few schools or a few municipalities lead to speculation and conclusions drawn too quickly. The danger is that incidents lead to a general adjustment of policies, which is not necessary, simply because we have not organised the answer to the third question. While demand for legality is increasing, the answer to question three to the effects of money is therefore shrouded in mists behind closed curtains. Did I argue that it is a mess in this country, that the Netherlands has a poorly functioning government? Let me be clear on that: no. The high degree of legality is more than 99% of what we are talking about is an achievement to be proud of. 36 shortcomings in all these departments, which manage billions and employ tens of thousands of people, is also a positive achievement against the recent past. For the past six months my immediate predecessors Henk Koning and Saskia Stuiveling died. They were involved in the General Court during the period 1984-2015. At that time it was not at all so self-evident that annual accounts came quickly and with high legality to the House of Representatives. That's what's been going on for years. Then came the improvement of business management in the departments. My story is different with that. The first two questions are answered better and better over the years. Our message to you today is that the time has come to work on the third question. Your work ultimately revolves around what really happens in the Netherlands. Here the cabinet response to our research and our conclusions offers way out and perspective. The cabinet now embraces the idea of a government that standardizes, standardizes concepts and speaks one language itself and allows the other layers of government to speak the same language. Because the youth policy in which each municipality has its own definition of wandering younger may well be successful, but that cannot be made visible if 388 different municipalities are incomparable. Developing one language and making smart use of technologies from the digital age make it possible to make the results of government transactions transparent. If we succeed, we will be able to turn the decentralised unitary state into a digital unitary state. Then we can organise, share and exchange information and thus gain a common understanding. When that happens, the curtains open. Then openness and transparency arise, which improve accountability, help your controlling task and strengthen your budget law. This is in line with ongoing initiatives on your part. During the previous period, your permanent finance committee worked on the Duisenberg method, a method of strengthening your control role. Today you will receive the Monitor Sustainable Netherlands, which will be developed into the Monitor Brede Welvaart. This is also the result of an initiative by the Chamber. There is also an opinion for which I would like to draw your attention: proposals to further develop the financial organisation of the Empire according to a benefit-burden system. That fits in seamlessly with this. These three developments, which complement each other, will strengthen parliamentary budgetary law, provided that there are rules of the game in the field of standardisation and standardisation. Then the tension between the answers to the three questions that are still apparent from our research will disappear. This brings me to today. You are at the beginning of a new period, a time for new ambitions. The Minister of Finance has shown you how different the situation you find is compared to that of four years ago. At that time, due to the financial and economic crisis, a great deal had to be decided in a short time. Now it's time for new ambitions, I guess. This is the time to work on the answer to the third question. The crucial difference from then is not that there is now financial space, but that the time pressure is off. Last Monday we understood that you really want to take extra time. The Minister has offered you the responsibility. I add the reports to the annual reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-17-tweedekamer-3.u5	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and the President of the General Court for the documents presented regarding the accountability of the 2016 National Budget. It is the eighteenth time that the Lower House receives the accountability documents from all ministers plus the reports of the General Court relating to them. And it is the second year that Mr Arno Visser has presented the reports of the Court of Auditors to the Chamber. For the first sixteen years, these documents were handed over by Saskia Stuiveling, who died last month. Thanks to her, but also thanks to her predecessor Henk Koning, the work of the General Court has always been innovative. As a result, the Court's reports form an essential basis for Parliament's supervisory role every year. The Chamber is also looking for renewal in accountability. That is why 100 people were invited to ask questions about a number of annual reports on Monday 22 May at the initiative of Pieter Duisenberg; that has already been mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, the main debate on the accounting documents presented today, the so-called accounting debate, is on the agenda for Wednesday, 31 May 2017. The individual annual reports will be discussed in the committees in the following weeks. Final decision-making on the annual reports and final laws as well as the discharge for the financial management carried out by ministers in 2016 is foreseen for the last meeting week before the next summer recess. Finally, I would like to point out that today the annual report 2016 on the Grote Project Scheme has also been presented to the Chamber by the Permanent Committee for Finance. I hope that the reports presented today will be helpful in assessing policy in 2016. I wish the Chamber every success.
