ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u1	To my pleasure, my equipment is doing it again. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u2	Madam President. When you just said that you were going to take off a bill as a hammer piece, I thought for a moment that you had thought at dinner break: well... But I suspected it was going to be about another bill. First of all, let me briefly explain why these legislative proposals have been tabled. Little has been said about the Law on land-based growth dairy farming. I understand that, because it is a formal conclusion to a process that started earlier here in the First Chamber to discuss the legislative proposal for responsible growth. Then it was agreed to turn the AMvB that was underneath into legislation. The most important thing, of course, is the bill on the phosphate rights system. A lot has been said about what should or should not be Brussels, but I am going back to what it is all about. The question is whether our drinking water remains safe and whether our locks, our lakes and our vents remain clean. In order to ensure this throughout Europe, we have agreed to reduce pollution from manure, i.e. nitrate and phosphate. That is what we are doing with a series of action programmes which must lead to all the measures to ensure clean water being taken by 2027. One of the main rules to achieve this concerns the amount of manure that may be used on land. Because grass grows so well in the Netherlands, because of the Dutch climate, Dutch farmers from the European Union have gained an advantage that does not exist on this scale in any other European country. That is the right to apply much more manure to grassland; the derogation which has been discussed by the members of your Chamber. This privilege is a major financial advantage for dairy farmers. The manure does not need to be processed and disposed of. It also helps us to keep the Netherlands green. It is also better for the environment, because it reduces the use of fertilizers and reduces the transport of animal manure abroad. In short, we are talking about a great advantage for Dutch farmers that we get from the European Union. This was subject to an explicit condition, which the Netherlands committed itself to more than ten years ago, namely a ceiling on the production of manure, expressed in a maximum quantity of phosphate and a maximum quantity of nitrate. Phosphate is 172.9 million kilograms per year. Due to the sharp growth of dairy farming in recent years, following the announcement and especially after the abolition of the milk quota, we are now producing more than the agreed ceiling for the third year in a row. This puts the dairy farming itself at a disadvantage. Mr Schnabel and others asked: how could that have happened? When it became clear that the milk quota would fall, the cabinet always warned that although there were no more production limits on the quantity of milk, other limits had to be taken into account. These included the limits to the production of manure. Assessments by scientists and sector organisations were that the production of phosphate would remain below the sector ceiling for dairy farming. My predecessor, Secretary of State Dijksma, has repeatedly warned that if the practice were different, production-limiting measures would be on the agenda. Farmers have nevertheless started to grow, some very heavily. All in all, growth was far too strong. My predecessor had no choice but to publish those production-limiting measures on 2 July 2015. She then said that she would regulate phosphate production with a system of phosphate rights. The objective of the phosphate duty system was initially to reduce phosphate production and to reduce it below the ceiling as early as 2017. The European Commission has put a stop to this because of the state aid rules. Mrs Vos asked how it was possible that we were so surprised by it. This was the case because there are State aid guidelines in place at the European Commission, especially in the case of State aid in the form of a system of marketable rights. It states that State aid should not be strengthened to ensure compliance with Union standards. It explicitly states that a Union standard applies when an individual company has to comply with a European rule. This is precisely the background to the state aid rules. You want to prevent a Member State from helping and subsidising its companies in order to comply with the rules if we are to create rules in Europe that individual companies have to comply with. It is explicitly stated in the guidelines that such a Union standard is not applicable if it applies to the level of the Member State as a whole. That is, of course, evident at the phosphate ceiling. The expectation was that there would be State aid, but not prohibited State aid, which would also make sense if you look at the guidelines. That is why we have been very surprised that the European Commission reached a different opinion. However, in view of the lengthy procedures involved if you want to fight that out, there was really no other option for me than to accept the opinion of the European Commission. I have actually indicated directly to the dairy sector that it itself was inclined to reduce livestock by 2017 if the derogation was to be retained. The sectoral organisations have jointly drawn up a plan for this. I immediately promised to support this with legal and financial resources because of the social importance of maintaining the derogation. That approach concerns the phosphate reduction plan 2017. This is a package of measures which should lead to a reduction this year. The phosphate rights system and the legislative proposal now before us, which is the reason for this debate, is therefore no longer intended to reduce phosphate production, but to ensure it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u3	I give the floor to Mr Schalk. Your sentence was so long, it almost didn't end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u4	The sentence was indeed so long that I almost forgot my question. I understood from the Secretary of State that one way or another there could have been a defence against State aid rules, but that he was afraid it would take too long. So were there any possibilities? If so, is he going to use it in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u5	You can question everything in Europe. You can possibly challenge it at the European Court of Justice. Then we are dealing with lengthy procedures. State aid must not be granted without the consent of the European Commission. If you do, by definition, you're trespassing. Therefore, we could not introduce the system as planned on the intended date of 1 January 2017. If we had started to challenge it legally, there would have been a very long procedure, which could take years. That is why we would not be able to use the instruments in any way. There was no other option but to accept the opinion of the European Commission, although I strongly disagree with it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u6	So there are terms to object. Even if the law were to be introduced now, why wouldn't you go down that path?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u7	Because in this case, that's no use to us. It does not provide any comfort for the situation we are in. The outcome of such a procedure is not clear until we have achieved the results. On the one hand, there is the phosphate reduction plan 2017. This should ensure that phosphate production is reduced to the agreed level. The phosphate rights system, the law we are talking about today, aims to ensure that, once we have reached that level, it is possible to produce more than the agreed sector ceiling. That's two separate tracks. Several questions have been asked about it. I will distinguish those traces in the answer strictly from each other because they really need to be distinguished. First of all, I am talking about the phosphate rights system, the bill that is on the agenda today. Then I'll answer the questions about the phosphate reduction plan. Finally, I would like to answer a number of general questions. Mr Atsma asked for the Lodders amendment under this law. It states that the phosphate rights system will only enter into force when there is a view of a derogation. This means that if the system is to enter into force, if the decision on entry into force is to be taken, there must be signs that the European Commission wants to give the Netherlands a new derogation. This means that we will have to be somewhat advanced in the process of negotiating with the European Commission. Given the planning of the procedures, it comes about together. The system must enter into force on 1 January. At that time, it must also be clear whether or not a derogation is in sight. That assessment should be based on today's expectations at that time. Mr Koffeman asked how such a system could now be justified and why rules had not been laid down before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u8	Is there, after all, an element of conditionality in that? That system and its acceptance are linked, but is there an element of conditionality in that? If it doesn't work out, does the Secretary of State come back here to explain what the situation is like?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u9	The question is why we guarantee a production ceiling. We do that because we committed ourselves to it in Brussels. That is a condition attached to the derogation. The House of Representatives has said: we will only introduce this system if the derogation remains there and we will therefore remain bound by a production ceiling. In that case, the system must enter into force. If that derogation were not to come into force, then this system should not enter into force either. That was the verdict of the House of Representatives and it is laid down in the Lodders amendment. This defines that the cabinet will have to make a decision at the moment when the law is intended to enter into force. The cabinet must then assess whether there is actually a new derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u10	This could mean that, if it is not completed in time, the Secretary of State could consider proposing that the law should not enter into force on 1 January. I also asked if there was any insight into the Namibian Committee meeting. We are very much inclined to give the right input there. So far it hasn't been clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u11	If we obtain a new derogation, it will also be seen in the calendar year 2018. If there's a production ceiling in there, we'll have to secure that ceiling in 2018. This is the purpose of this legal system. It will therefore have to enter into force on 1 January. Before the end of the year, we must consider whether there is sufficient scope for derogation to allow the system to enter into force. In the planning, I'll assume that, like I said. Indeed, the cycle of discussions with the Nitrate Committee is relevant to this. The European Commission has said that it will, for the first time, raise those discussions, which will take place in a number of rounds, at a time when it is sufficiently clear that the Netherlands is actually reducing phosphate production below the ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u12	Just for the record, you're not letting that law go until later this year, maybe Q4, I'm guessing, because you want to know about that derogation. But why are we in such a hurry now and are we judging 1 July as a date from which we cannot deviate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u13	It is crucial that everyone understands the course we are on. That course is to reduce livestock and phosphate production enough to get back below the ceiling this year. The European Commission has said, if we succeed, that we are prepared to start discussions on derogations. Those talks are aimed at obtaining a derogation. If we get a derogation again, there will be another production ceiling, and then we have to guarantee that with the phosphate rights system. As far as dairy farmers are concerned, they need to be clear as soon as possible about what this system is going to look like and that it will be final. Everyone will benefit from clarity as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u14	Yes, but you're gonna sue and you're gonna appeal. To what extent is there clarity as soon as possible? In fact, I foresee that there will be no clarity at all. You're going to sue. New groups will join the 2018 Directive because they feel disadvantaged. What certainty do we have? Isn't it wiser to let that come to us, to assess what blows are going on in the sector, if we are not going to introduce the law later this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u15	No, because it is essential for the discussions with the European Commission to show that we can also guarantee the phosphate production ceiling with a legal system, so there must be that legal system. Mr Dercksen is confusing two things. He says I'm going to appeal and sue, but that's about the phosphate reduction scheme 2017. I'll come back to that later. I also explained in my introduction that these are two distinct routes. That is separate from this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u16	I think I have heard the following from the Secretary of State, and that is important, because it is a question that I have put with some emphasis. If you stay neatly below the ceiling, isn't the derogation a right? It is a matter of negotiation with the Commission. The Commission can say no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u17	Yeah, you can. This is linked to the Sixth action programme on nitrates. This must be to the satisfaction of the European Commission. Derogation is part of that. Those discussions on the Sixth Action Programme are now beginning. We have had the first exploratory talks with the Commission. It's all connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u18	A second question, if that's all right, Mr President. I was a little confused by what seems to have been discussed in the House of Representatives. I have also asked a question about this, and perhaps the Secretary of State will come to that. Let me just say that if we do not make it, the derogation will not be granted to us. It could be. Don't you need the phosphate rights system in a reinforced way? I assume that we are obliged to abide by the lowest international standard. The Secretary of State has already indicated that the Netherlands has created a very special position of its own, but there is clearly a different standard for the whole of Europe. I suppose we'll have to stick to that standard. Then you need a phosphate rights system to realize that, don't you? Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u19	Unfortunately it is, because there are two different things that are mixed up in this case. The standards that we are bound to across Europe are about spreading manure, so the use of manure on the Dutch land. We have a derogation, an exception to that standard. This means that we can use more manure on grass in the Netherlands than elsewhere in Europe. As I said, the Netherlands is actually the only country with an exception on this large scale. We have very good reasons for doing so. That is why the European Commission is granting this derogation. It's not a charity agency. People just look at it to see if it's good for the environment. That is the case and that is why we have been granted this derogation. Suppose you, a hypothetical case, lose that derogation, what happens then? So you can use less manure. At that time, however, there is no longer a condition for the production of manure. So you can produce an infinite amount of manure, but you can't use that manure on the Dutch country. So you have to make sure it goes abroad. You're gonna have to process and export that manure. That's gonna cost a lot of money. The direct costs are estimated at at least 100 million. The total cost for the whole dairy sector could amount to 1 billion. That's got something to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u20	Who's gonna check it out? Then there is actually no brake on the production anymore. Farmers could increase their stables even further and produce even more manure. However, that manure must remain somewhere. There is already a debate on whether a lot of manure is already being processed illegally. Is there a body, a Dutch or a European body, which can seriously control how much manure is actually produced and where it remains?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u21	We now monitor how much manure is produced. We are also responsible for maintaining all the standards for the use of manure. In that situation it will be no different, but the standards will be different. However, the distribution of responsibility remains the same. I was with Mr Koffeman's question. He asked why he didn't intervene earlier. Some of the others have asked this, too. I believe that Mr Verheij referred to the way things were at the time. There were predictions from both the PBL and Wageningen U & R that dairy farming would grow, but that this growth would take place within the limits of the production ceiling. The organisations in the dairy chain, LTO and NZO, have always said that they shared that assessment and have also promised to limit phosphate production through private measures. That was reason for the cabinet at the time not to take immediate measures to legally limit phosphate production in dairy farming. In retrospect, given the growth that has been achieved, you can say: at the time only another consideration was made. In the light of the facts, however, that consideration can be understood. Measures were immediately announced when it became clear that production had grown above the production ceiling. On 1 June 2015, the Secretary of State announced that he would do something. On 2 July, she made clear what the cabinet was going to regulate, namely a phosphate rights system. Mrs Vos asked why we stick to these sector ceilings. These commitments have been made by the various sectors themselves. There has always been a balance between the different sectors. This also put pressure on every sector to take its own measures to prevent it from going over that ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u22	I understand that the minister's predecessor had great confidence in the commitments made by the sector organisations. Measures were subsequently taken when it appeared that these commitments were not fulfilled or could be fulfilled. Will there be a time when government self-regulation as a means will become more suspicious? We have 80 billion kilos of manure. The Secretary of State said we can't get rid of it, especially without a derogation. In Germany they have already said that they no longer want our manure, although according to Mr Schaap it is actually a kind of brown gold. In Germany, however, they do not want that manure. That is an essential problem. It's about 4,000 kilos of manure per Dutchman. That's a lot of bathtubs full. When is the government going to say that self-regulation is not working in this sector? When is the government going to systematically set frameworks within which this should take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u23	That is what we are doing now, with the introduction of this legal system, the phosphate rights system. There is already a legal system for pig rights and poultry rights. In these sectors, too, the government has regulated. The question of whether it is desirable to regulate further or to intervene further is whether parties may form a coalition together. We are all waiting now for the process to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u24	I understand that very well, that is about new legal frameworks. A number of speakers have noted that the current legal frameworks are largely fraudulent and the NVWA has confirmed this. The question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to at least tighten up supervision and enforcement of the current legal frameworks. If they're being trampled, you don't have to wait for a new coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u25	We'll do what we can in there, too. For everything in the Netherlands, if rules are broken, the government cannot always prevent them. You can make the most of it and we do so, for example by strengthening the tracing of manure. We have introduced the obligation to be able to track manure transports completely with GPS. This has raised a great deal of resistance in the sector, but it is necessary, precisely in order to combat this fraud. So we are also trying to strengthen enforcement with the use of smart technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u26	The Secretary of State just answered a question I asked, namely why he is holding on to this division between the different sectors and the own ceilings. I am asking this question because I find that the entire livestock sector exceeds that common ceiling. Europe just wants us to get below that ceiling, otherwise it is our business. I believe that the Secretary of State is putting us and himself unnecessarily in trouble by allowing further growth in a number of sectors in this problem situation. I find it very strange that goat farming, which is slowly taking on industrial forms, should continue to grow. The Secretary of State will allow the beef sector to continue to grow. In my opinion, there are 700 000 calves in the Netherlands that are not granted phosphate rights, while in the dairy sector we have to take very painful measures and the Secretary of State is not prepared to give the organic sector a little more space, even if it would only cost 0.2 million kilos of phosphate. In fact, my plea is: why not take a little more room in order at least to be able to spare a little more ground-based, sustainable and biological sectors in the bottleneck regime?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u27	That's a couple of questions next to each other. One question was why there is still room for growth for other sectors. It's about manure production. Mrs Vos mentions the meat sector. It produces less manure than the ceiling to which one is committed. As far as manure production is concerned, there is therefore room for growth. Whether or not there is a locality is a balance between the municipality and the province, and you know that I want to strengthen the powers of the province in order to be able to direct it. Other questions put by Mrs Vos relate to the future of livestock farming. I gave my views on this in the media not long ago. Whether that will also be the vision of a future cabinet, we have to wait and see, but it is really a matter of policy changes regarding livestock farming in the Netherlands, which are reserved for a new cabinet; you cannot ask this cabinet anymore. We are now talking about the fact that dairy farming has been producing too much phosphate in recent years and that we need to reduce it. I will go into the questions that Mrs Vos has also asked about, for example, organic dairy farmers. Although they occupy a special position, at the same time they also produce manure from organic cows, which is why they have to deal with the same agreements and the same rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u28	Finally, Mrs Vos on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u29	I am talking about this system, because we in the Netherlands have invented these different ceilings for each species. Europe doesn't have to do that at all. It is not legal either, it seems to be agreements with the sectors. Now that we are in this emergency, is there any reason to find it a little bizarre that you are going to force very painful shrinkage in one sector, while you are allowed to continue to grow in other sectors? So I appeal to you, Secretary of State. Why are you so attached to these borders, to these different ceilings? Why don't you just fix one ceiling that everyone should stay under? That gives you more room for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u30	We have one ceiling. We are faced with the task of reducing total phosphate production in the Netherlands to the level agreed with Europe. But in order to divide the regulation of that total ceiling, we agreed that we would keep different sectors to individual ceilings. If Mrs Vos has looked at the original legal history, she has undoubtedly seen that in the original legislative proposal I suggested the possibility of taking a number of measures in relation to other sectors as well. But there was no support for that in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u31	I would like to return to the words of the Secretary of State on the history and predictions of scientific institutes. Is there also a validation of the predictions previously made that economic growth would not be enough? In view of the small debate we have had here with Mr Schaap on the trend in scale, would it be wise for the future to find out whether the assumptions made by the scientific offices regarding growth potential are still based on actual information and on the dynamics that exist in the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u32	It is really up to these bodies themselves to evaluate how they came to those predictions. They are both independent agencies, the PBL and the University of Wageningen. Scientific independence is their priority, but I assume that they themselves will have looked at the predictions of that time. I think the rate of growth has surprised almost everyone. Of course, there were people who said it was going to be very hard, but the expectation at the time of both scientists and industry organisations was that it would be not so bad and that the ceiling would not be in sight. We now know that things have turned out very differently. In the system of phosphate rights, we are therefore going to guarantee total phosphate production in the Netherlands. We will ensure that it does not exceed the sector ceiling. In order to do that, you have to grant rights to individual dairy farmers. The rights are granted on the basis of the livestock as of 2 July 2015, the day on which the scheme was announced by State Secretary Dijksma. For non-ground holdings, the number of rights is reduced by a generic percentage, which means that the total amount of rights granted corresponds to the total amount of phosphate that dairy farming is authorised to produce. It is then up to companies to adapt their production to the amount of rights they have or vice versa. That would mean buying rights or leasing rights. This has consequences for almost every company. If companies have fewer rights, they must start to produce less or invest in order to align the amount of duty with production. Mr Schalk made the following remark: no matter what you've done in the past, you're always screwed. That's not entirely true. He referred to the disappearance of the milk quota. Since 2008, the European Commission has already made it clear that the milk quota would end in the long term and would thus lose its value. Companies have therefore also had ample time to anticipate and take this into account. As of December 2013, my predecessor pointed out to the sector the need to take measures to restrict production if the phosphate production ceiling were to be exceeded. Consequently, individual farmers could also have taken into account the fact that the production-limiting measures would be at some point and could have taken this into account in their investment decisions. Mr Schalk asked whether it is fair that entrepreneurs who have made investments should now be affected. He referred to Article 1 of the First Protocol to the ECHR. I'll come back to it separately later. The Commission will, of course, look at this type of question about irreversible investment obligations, but I would point out that I have always done so and have always been warned that such measures could be taken. Companies also knew before 2 July 2015 that there was no unlimited growth potential and, if you anticipated an unlimited growth potential, that you were at risk of intervention by the government and that you would limit your ability to earn back that investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u33	That's a lot of rubbing with what the judge thinks about that. I don't think I have a shorter question than this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u34	This is the second time that Mr Dercksen has asked this question. He asks another question about the phosphate reduction scheme 2017. I am now talking about the phosphate rights system. That's a legal system. The judge has a number of arguments in which he specifically refers to elements of the phosphate reduction scheme that do not apply to the phosphate duty system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u35	You are not going to say that the ruling on the 2017 scheme has nothing to do with the 2018 scheme? We have already drawn attention to this in a few larger numbers. The people who are exempt from that scheme are going to produce phosphate and manure again. I've asked you about numbers. Perhaps you could also answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u36	I will go into all the questions about the phosphate reduction scheme 2017 in detail later, but I have already indicated in last Friday's letter that I consider the judge's ruling to be questionable. This also has to do with the argument I have just put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u37	I do not want to talk about the arrangements for 2017, but about the arrangements for 2018 relating to Article 1 and the signals, signals or warnings given. There have also been signals from the Ministry that have led companies to achieve this growth. They had the feeling: okay, now we can again. Article 1 is also about proportionality. The question is whether your statement remains sustainable that it has sufficiently reflected in the warnings, because there were also positive signs that there was room for growth again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u38	Secretary of State Dijksma warned very quickly that there was no unlimited growth space. I don't think that could be misunderstood. In this context, Mr Atsma asked whether there was no expropriation. It's good to think about that. There is an important difference, including in the European Convention on Human Rights, between expropriation and regulation of property. In the event of expropriation, the State shall be liable for compensation. However, the legislative proposal and also the phosphate reduction scheme deal with regulation of ownership and not expropriation. That is a fundamental difference. Mr Verheijen asked whether the generic reduction in the allocation of phosphate rights would be sufficient to alleviate the pressure on the manure market. Or was he referring to the discount that takes place on transfer? That's not exactly sharp for me. If he was referring to the second, I'm going to go into it again in a second. The generic discount corresponds to the total amount of duties issued to the total amount of phosphate that may be produced in the Netherlands. Mr Schalk asked why a single reference date was chosen, namely 2 July 2015. Wouldn't it be fairer and more representative to take a whole period or multiple benchmarks? If you do that, you give companies the choice. They will always choose the most advantageous date. The result is that you allocate more phosphate rights than there is room for. This means that you have to cut more generically and increase the bill for companies that haven't grown hard in favour of companies that have grown very hard, despite all the warnings issued by the government. In my view, that is unfair. That is the reason why we should not choose to do so and simply stick to a single reference date. Mr Schalk also asked, in the context of this generic discount, whether it is justified to apply it if the government does not make a serious effort to create more phosphate space. I have heard this question before in this debate, whether more phosphate space can be created. To be honest, I don't have it in my bag. There is a limited amount of phosphate production space in the Netherlands. This means that if one company is allowed to produce more, all other companies will have to produce less. That is always the balance that is being made. You can't distribute phosphate space because it's limited. What is at stake here is the distribution of the phosphate space, which must be as fair and fair as possible. We can't do that without pain for individual companies. I'm sure there is. It's a matter of dividing that pain in a just way. I believe that we have succeeded in doing so with the legislative proposal that is now before this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u39	I think I asked in the same block what we would do with phosphate grains exported abroad. They do not end up in the surface water here and ultimately they are about water quality. In other countries, they're jumping over that manure. There is also a great deal of investment in this area. That could give you room, right? Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into that in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u40	I promised that, also in the letter I sent to the Chamber, in which I outlined what the system of phosphate rights would look like. I also said that we in the European Commission are committed to broadening the ceiling, because we can show that the manure we produce too much is being processed and that it is being disposed of outside Dutch agriculture. We will have to make that work for the European Commission. We will. However, the PBL has already referred to this point also to the fraud of manure taking place. Of course, the European Commission also sees such reports. So at the moment we cannot really guarantee that all manure that is produced too much in the Netherlands will not end up in Dutch agriculture. There are still strong signs that this is happening. So there's a tension. We will have the discussion on this with the European Commission. It has not been said beforehand that the European Commission will extend the phosphate production ceiling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u41	In that case, the Secretary of State is merely looking at enlargement. However, if you keep the ceiling as it is now, but you do not allocate everything to the phosphate quantity that is currently being used because it does not enter our water and it is needed elsewhere, then you do not even have to talk about extending the phosphate ceiling. You can also say "look, we have much less" or "we'll make sure it's exported out of here."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u42	That's an argument that's been around for a long time. Almost all manure is processed from the poultry sector. Nevertheless, this has so far been no reason for the European Commission to say to the Netherlands: then you will no longer count on your production ceiling. I would also point out that we must, of course, get a long way in the discussions with the European Commission, because we have not shown ourselves to be a Member State that keeps to the agreements for the third year. We will have to show once again that we are sticking to our commitments. I have already said that for almost all companies the introduction of phosphate rights has consequences and that this is inevitable given the fact that we want to regulate phosphate production. In a limited number of cases, these consequences are really disproportionate. Those cases are already included in the bill. I would point out to Mr Schalk that some of the examples he mentioned are also really explicitly included in the legislative proposal, namely part G, in particular in the proposed sixth paragraph of Article 23. That's the troublemaker. Mr Atsma referred to that too. In addition, the House of Representatives adopted the Geurts amendment, which allows the ninth paragraph of the same article to extend the bottleneck regime. To this end, I have set up the Kalden Committee. On the basis of individual cases, it will give an opinion on whether there are categories of companies for which there could be "discretions of a general nature" as set out in the text of the Geurts amendment. Mr Atsma asked if the committee could provide tailor-made services. She can't do that on an individual basis. The commission's mission is really to come up with categories of companies. Next year, it is up to RVO to assess individual applications from companies and see whether they fit within the criteria of either Article 23 (6) or the extension that is being made on the basis of the committee's opinion. Mr Atsma asked me if that was a binding opinion, Mr Schaap asked for something similar and I think others did. Strictly speaking, of course, it is an advice. An opinion is not binding, but my intention is of course to take that advice. I also have a great deal of confidence in the committee and in the balance that the committee is going to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u43	Can I translate the Secretary of State's answer in such a way that he at least qualifies it as a serious opinion, which he could not possibly avoid? If the answer is yes, it is clear. Another point: before that, it was about customization. The committee will of course look at categories, but it will be clear that at some point a statement by the committee, which is binding or heavy, will have an effect on the individual entrepreneur. If that entrepreneur doesn't agree, which way can he go? What options are there for him or her?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u44	The first question was whether it was a serious opinion. It certainly is. I said it's my intention to take over. I must have very good reasons not to. So basically, I will. The second question was: what does it mean for individual dairy farmers? It means that a category or perhaps several categories of companies will be added to the bottleneck provision. The problem provision is now in paragraph 6 of Article 23, as I said. At AMvB there will be one, two, three categories, depending on what the committee will recommend. It is then up to individual dairy farmers to call upon it after the entry into force of the law. They therefore submit a request to RVO to be honored as a bottleneck. It will be assessed whether the criteria are met. If the outcome does not like it, it is simply a decision that is open to appeal and objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u45	This means, in fact, that the committee must formulate the limits of these categories broadly, because they are all individual cases which are reported to us and, no doubt, to the Ministry. It is, of course, very difficult to classify this into a limited number of categories, unless you define the boundaries sufficiently broadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u46	The question to the committee is precisely to be as clear as possible in identifying categories and also to try to estimate how much phosphate space this will take and how much should be cut down on all other companies. That is the really difficult task facing this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u47	For the record, the committee can therefore only designate categories. This means that the customization is transferred to the RVO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u48	That is the case anyway, because it must of course simply be an arrangement. It should be legally laid down in a general measure of governance. This does not include individual cases but categories. This also provides legal certainty for companies. Some companies may think or try to qualify for a bottleneck supply, but of course it is necessary to assess whether they are actually eligible on the basis of individual facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u49	I was just reacting to what my colleague Atsma brought in. He said, "I want as much customization as possible." But that's not what the committee delivers. That committee actually comes to a limited number of categories that could be covered. Then the dairy farmers start to think: that fits me. They then make a concrete request for something. It is then up to the RVO to assess that. I'm afraid the judge's gonna be busy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u50	As with any decision, these decisions are open to appeal and appeal. There may be major interests for dairy farmers. We are therefore, of course, prepared to try to make use of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u51	In the letter of 12 May, the Secretary of State says that the committee also gives advice on whether or not to broaden the supply of emergency services. This could therefore mean that it would be advisable to extend the provision. What room is there for that? Is there also phosphate space available? Can the Secretary of State then grant that space if that advice comes in that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u52	I would also like to say to Mr Kuiper once again that I cannot make phosphate space available. The government doesn't have a phosphate room. The dairy farmers have joint phosphate space. They've used it more than they've used it. So we need to reduce it. Everything that becomes available to one category of companies is at the expense of all other companies. That is the reality. If the Kalden Commission recommends extending the bottleneck provision for a particular category of companies, it will also try to estimate how much phosphate space it costs, and therefore how much more needs to be cut down on all other companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u53	I get that. That comes from the same square all the time. That square stays the same. It's just that it's being skimmed. The reduction of the livestock creates space within that square. Of course, it has to be there for that committee to be able to advise, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u54	We must first make sure that it becomes a square again, because at the moment it goes across the border on all sides. That is the reality. We reduce it to make it neat again a square. Then you have to cut away everything you give to one group within that square, in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u55	One more time: if it says here that the committee can give its opinion on extending the bottleneck provision, there must be room for action. Companies can rightly be granted an exemption. How does the Secretary of State view this enlargement? Then what's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u56	The committee will first of all examine the categories of companies which it considers should be eligible for the emergency provision. Secondly, the Committee will advise on the extent to which these companies could be compensated for their situation. For example, it could be a question of granting a certain amount of additional phosphate rights. That doesn't have to be complete. That's what the committee's gonna look into. One will try to calculate how many kilos of phosphate space is actually given away. The consequence will be that all non-ground-based companies, which are faced with a generic discount, will face a higher reduction rate than the rate they would get if there were no increase in the supply of bottlenecks. So it is at the expense of the other non-land-based companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u57	But that troublemaker's still a bit of a black box. I also understand the Secretary of State's explanation, but in the end, of course, we need to get a bit of a sense of whether this arrangement is going to help. Is this scheme going to help organic farms, for example, which have not actually contributed to the problem? Is this scheme going to mean something for farms that are extremely extensive farmers? We have to get a bit of a feel for that. Are there any possibilities? I read in the Secretary of State's letter that it is important to look at proportionality. If it is really disproportionate, then there is a starting point from which you can move forward. But let us say that a proper group is really disproportionately affected and that this group does not contribute to this problem, because it works below 170 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider at least with the RVO how to use extra phosphate, even if this is at the expense of other companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u58	Of course, this was not included in the original bill. This has been amended by the House of Representatives. It was my preference to keep the bottled supply as limited as possible, precisely to avoid what Mrs Vos called a "black box." I was in favour of clarifying in advance and, therefore, providing for a very limited number of problems, only if, for example, there was construction work or disease, or a family member's illness or death. These are very appropriate reasons why the phosphate rights system could be disproportionate. The House of Representatives adopted the amendment to look, through an advisory committee, at a possible extension of the problem regulation. Of course, I agreed to that. It's not like I had a choice in that, because the Chamber decides, of course. But I also agreed to do so by setting up that committee and giving it an order. I asked the committee to pay particular attention to companies which entered into irreversible financial commitments before 2 July 2015 and to organic dairy farmers who were in a business development process on 2 July 2015. The committee will therefore look into this in particular. As I have just said, I am taking over the committee's opinion in principle. This may have been a somewhat long version of "yes," but the answer is "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u59	If I understand you correctly now, you are in principle prepared to take that advice for, for example, those organic farms that were under development before 2 July 2015. But if that really means extra phosphate space being sought from other companies, are you prepared to facilitate that? After all, some phosphate has to go to these companies, and that is at the expense of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u60	In fact, it's inevitable. That is why we have also asked the committee to assess what a possible extension of phosphate space would cost. I will have to translate that into the generic discount rate, the discount applied to non-ground-based companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u61	However, I would like to clarify what is expected of the committee. It sets out categories of companies which may fall under the term "complaint." The Secretary of State says: I would also like the committee to take a look at the consequences of this. Do I understand the Secretary of State? He says, "If the consequences are rigorous for the rest of it being passed on, do you have to think about whether it is a good advice?" In other words, it is not only a matter of being very strict about what is legally covered by the definition of "complaint." If the consequences are great, it is important to consider whether it is wise to call this category a "complaint."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u62	It's a consultative committee for a reason. She has to advise. The cabinet does not propose advisory committees for simple questions, but rather for complex questions. The question on the committee's board is precisely the complicated question that Mr Schaap raises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u63	Finally, Mr Schaap, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u64	I think it's legally complicated. The committee has to say strictly that it brings in troubles. On the basis of a number of cases we listen to what is happening in the field. And then you can say: this is too crazy for words; something must be done about it. But then you can say: unfortunately the consequences are fairly rigorous for the rest; then it should not become a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u65	Mr Schaap pretends that a kind of physical calculation can be used to determine whether there is a problem, but it is also about the assessment. It will also assess whether your situation is disproportionate, given the objective to be achieved. It also examines whether your situation is as special as it is. This is exactly what the committee should look at: is it disproportionate? It should also consider the scale of similar cases and what this means for the overall scheme. It's a weighting. The committee must consider and advise whether it can achieve a proper definition of a particular category of problems which should be extended. The consequences are seen in this context. Of course, it's a good thing we know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u66	Mr. Schaap, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u67	I think it makes sense to consider the consequences. You need to know what you're deciding. Then you put the consequences in the picture. But there is also a legal consequence. I'm afraid it's not easy for a judge to follow a double standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u68	In view of the committee's expertise, I think that this question is well dealt with. There is very thorough legal expertise in the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u69	I would like to ask a more precise question about the letter sent by the Secretary of State himself. In it, he states that there are two tasks for the committee. The first is to give an opinion in individual cases on whether or not to broaden the problem regime. Then it says: the committee must determine whether there are groups of companies which are disproportionately affected and which are compensated for this. The Secretary of State goes on in his letter and writes that the Committee should take three things into account. First of all, it must take into account the consequences of broadening the supply of bottled water to other dairy farmers explicitly. That is the first task. It's about that square, that waterbed or that "milkbed" we've been talking about today; if it's gonna squeeze somewhere near a dairy farmer giving him more phosphate space, the room will have to go off with another dairy farmer. I read, however, that the advisory committee is being asked, second, to consider whether the groups of dairy farmers affected by disproportionately are sufficiently clear. They have to be compensated. Then what's the compensation? It can't be in that square, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u70	It's gotta be in that square.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u71	I think the Secretary of State should read his own letter again. On one group, namely individual cases, he writes: in doing so, the committee must take into account that if something is going to slide, the result must be measured in proportion to the rest of the dairy farmers. But for the groups of dairy farmers who are disproportionately affected, we are talking more about a group of farms, we need compensation for a collective dairy farmer. It's in the Secretary of State's own letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u72	I'm gonna try to explain it again. I hope I can make it clear. The Committee advises on the General Measure of Management set out in Article 23 (9). The General Measure of Governance may include a larger bottleneck provision than that currently provided for by law. In order to reach that opinion, the Committee will examine individual cases. These are of course known to the department, but also to sector organisations. On this basis, the committee will have to distill whether groups of companies should be identified for which this wider bottleneck provision should be created. It is therefore possible to identify groups of companies on which it is said that they should also be eligible for a bottleneck provision. If this is done, it will also be recommended to what extent these companies will have to be compensated. It therefore takes into account the consequences for all other dairy farmers. That's where the phosphate room has to come from. That's what the letter says, and that's how it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u73	I would say, Mr Schalk, if you have any questions about this now, save it until the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u74	That's a good advice, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u75	Mr Verheijen also wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u76	I would like to highlight one more point from the discussion we had with Mr Atsma in the first term, namely the discretion of the Secretary of State in the context of customisation and the like. This is, of course, at the stage after appeals and objections have been lodged on the basis of the decision of the RVO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u77	That is, of course, something other than the discretionary power that Mr Verheij is talking about. The point is that there is now a problem provision in the law. An additional provision may be made in the General Measure of Management. Once established, companies can also assess whether they consider that they could benefit from one of those facilities. In order to be genuinely eligible, a company must, of course, submit a request. This is assessed on the basis of individual data. The company data will be reviewed. Do they meet the criteria set out in the law or in the AMvB? On this basis, it is decided whether such a problem provision is actually eligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u78	Mr Schnabel wants to ask a question. But I see that Mr Verheijen would like to ask a brief further question first. Sorry, Mr. Schnabel. Mr Verheijen, you're keeping it short, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u79	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. What is the position of the discretion of the Secretary of State himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u80	This applies to companies which are not eligible for the emergency provision and are therefore excluded from the scheme, but which, on the basis of the individual assessment, we say: there is something crazy going on here; this is eligible for discretionary assessment. This will be done in very exceptional cases. I will say something about this later, also in the context of this year's regulation. Of course, we want to be able to gain experience. Sometimes a company comes along whose situation is out of all contexts, yet it is quite unreasonable. That could be a reason for me to use that power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u81	It is clear that the consultative committee's point here is very heavy. We would very much like this to be well arranged and to have statements that will be useful in practice. The committee must work with the letters of fire, the casusism, which are at present there, assuming that they will ultimately be about representative of the situation that will take place next year. So that's a little hypothetical. The committee will have to look into this. I suggested to the Secretary of State that we give the committee a little more time. We are now discussing what problems the committee needs to solve. They will be formulated in relatively general terms, but they cannot be so general that the RVO cannot work with them, because then the space would be distributed randomly among smaller and smaller numbers of dairy farmers. Of course you can't. There's a limit in there; that's just been suggested. Does the Secretary of State intend to give the committee a little more time after all? I have a feeling that the summer months for this committee will be very much needed in order to arrive at a good and well-balanced opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u82	I have, of course, discussed this well with the committee. The Committee assumes that it will be able to deliver an opinion on 1 July. We need time in the department to convert the advice into a General Measure of Management. It should be developed and entered into force on 1 January 2018, at the same time as the law. The suggestion made by Mr Schnabel in his term of office to give the committee room until 1 September actually makes that impossible, because then we will not be able to make the planning. But as I said, the committee itself is confident that it will be able to reach 1 July. We have made good agreements if they do not make it, but it is not possible to give the committee room until 1 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u83	Well, then I would say: do you take that committee mainly for all the other committees on a permanent basis. I think that would be very useful for everyone. I think it's a big risk, let me just say it honestly to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u84	Mrs Vos, you can ask one more question on this subject. I can imagine that the Secretary of State would like to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u85	The Secretary of State just said he's taking the committee's advice in principle. I have one more question. I think that is a fine and important commitment, but I am also trying to weigh her up. The letter states that the Secretary of State also looks at what it means for the total amount of phosphate it costs and what it means for other dairy farmers. If the committee thinks that something should be done for organic or extensive farms which produce less than 170 kilograms per hectare and are disproportionately affected, is it very likely that something will happen and that they will be met?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u86	If the committee includes in its opinion something about the category of companies mentioned by Mrs Vos, whether specified or not, I will, in principle, adopt that opinion, regardless of what type of company it is. The same applies to this type of company. I'll continue with the transfer of phosphate rights. A number of questions have been asked about this. I have already said that companies are given the opportunity to align their production with the number of rights they have or vice versa. They can buy or lease fees to produce more. The GroenLinks and SP groups asked whether it is desirable to make phosphate rights transferable or negotiable. If we did not do so, companies would not be able to align the number of duties on their own with the intended level of production. This would mean that companies that have made an investment cannot buy or lease rights themselves, but that they are dependent on whether the government grants them such rights or not. This would lead to a fully regulated and government-controlled market and, by the way, to huge implementation costs for the government. Nevertheless, I understand the background to these questions, because it is also about social concerns regarding the development of dairy farming. In addition, there is a fear that the price of duties will be created on the basis of intensive forms of production as a result of price increases and speculation, which will be detrimental to more extensive forms of production. That is a point of attention that the government will have to bear in mind in the future. Those concerns have been taken into account in the system, albeit in a different way than Mrs Vos and Mrs Meijer have put forward here. For each transfer of rights, 10% of the rights are removed. First of all, this serves to prevent speculation. Secondly, the skimmed rights are used to fill a phosphate bank, as is popularly called, in order to grant exemptions to companies to produce phosphate without having phosphate rights. Those exemptions will be granted on the basis of criteria that still need to be completed, but they should contribute to ground-basedness and go beyond European standards. In addition to being ground bound, one can think of promoting grazing, promoting nature including farmers. The law also provides for additional support for young farmers if they also meet these other criteria. Thus, it has now been incorporated into the system; that has also been the reason for opting for marketable rights, which are skimmed off on transfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u87	I asked the Secretary of State to use this phosphate bank for young farmers so that new businesses or company acquisitions could be promoted. The Secretary of State says that it is intended that young farmers should receive support. Can the Secretary of State say anything about what he imagines?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u88	The phosphate banks system means that duties are skimmed when transfers are made. It fills a jar. Once in a while, the rights that are in that jar must be divided. This will have to be done by means of a tender on which companies can register. They can earn points for different criteria. That's the most obvious way to work this out. It's all still to be worked out in a General Measure of Governance. If you meet the definition of young farmer, you get points for that too, which makes you higher in the ranking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u89	This afternoon, several people have asked for this to be a perspective on sustainable agriculture, sustainable agriculture. The Secretary of State mentions other things, such as grazing. That's all terribly important, but the Secretary of State is so brief about it. Surely this is a hugely important tool for the sustainability of dairy farming, but also for young generations to have a future in this industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u90	It is an important tool, at the same time many companies are being transferred from parents to children. That's except for the skimming. Much of the sustainability of dairy farming needs to be continued within the family farms, which are not affected or affected by this skimming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u91	With regard to the phosphate bank, we must always look at the European test when it comes to granting rights. I hear on my right all the concept of state aid. There can be no arbitrary and selective distribution. There must be something of justice, also in view of what Europe and Brussels are asking of us in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u92	Sure. That is why I said just now that it should contribute to objectives that go beyond European standards. I have mentioned some of the goals that can and will play a role in this. This has also been discussed extensively in the House of Representatives. Of course, we must set it up in a way that fits within the European framework. Moreover, I would like to add that the European Commission's state aid rules require that the system also contributes to objectives that go beyond just maintaining European standards. This is, of course, a very important instrument for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u93	The phosphate bank will therefore have to be used to bring objectives that go beyond European standards. I'm gonna take the ground bonding out of that. It's what the Secretary of State specifically calls it. But if every now and then that whole phosphate bank is re-issued, it can never lead to overall greater ground-boundness, because then the total amount of issues will remain the same, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u94	How it works is that rights are skimmed on transfer. If rights are sold or leased, 10% of them are skimmed. Those rights are then redistributed in the form of exemptions. They are only distributed to companies that meet the criteria by which they are eligible for such exemptions. The most important criterion will be ground-boundness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u95	So you can stimulate a company, bring it further into its ground-boundness, but if you redistribute all existing rights, the overall ground-boundness throughout the Netherlands will never be able to increase, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u96	As long as you go through with this, I'm sure you will. Freely negotiable duties are always being removed and exemptions are being replaced. So if you were to go through with this in the very long term, but then you have to go on for a very long time, the free-trade rights will disappear in a given period and there will only be exemptions. But you're talking about very, very, very long term. I'm not sure the system will last that long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u97	Mr Ten Hoeve, very briefly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u98	Then they're waivers. But if they are then used as an exemption, the effect is the same, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u99	Those exemptions can be revoked again if companies no longer meet the conditions. If companies do not make use of the exemption they have received from the phosphate bank and no longer comply with the ground-boundity standard, the exemption can be withdrawn again and so we simply have to purchase phosphate rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u100	I have a comment to make on the scope of the phosphate bank. You can list here all kinds of wonderful ideals that that bank has to play on. I am extremely reluctant to do so, because the harsh reality just pollutes it. Let me give you an example: we must support young, novice farmers. They are almost all in a partnership and are not only young, novice farmer, but also partner in a wider club. So I'd say... well, I don't have to lecture the Secretary of State, but be very careful with noble goals, because reality is extremely complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u101	That is certainly the case. I also know the reluctance of the VVD Group, including on this side of the Binnenhof, when it comes to government interference. However, it has been the intention of both the Cabinet and the House of Representatives that the government should use this as a steering tool for the development of dairy farming, as well as the other law that is on the agenda here today, the Ground-based Growth Act. The most important question that has been asked about this bill is whether it actually contributes to the land-based nature of dairy farming. Let me answer that question straight away: yes, because the proposal aims to ensure that you can only grow if you have sufficient justification for that growth with additional land. This means that all companies that grow need to be more ground bound. So they're gonna have to get more extensive than they are. The Law on land-based growth thus does indeed contribute to the intensification of dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u102	I would ask Members to be a little reluctant to interfere for the time being. I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to make a few meters with his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u103	I immediately answered a few questions about the phosphate bank. Mrs Meijer asked if I am prepared to work out the option of a public phosphate bank. I just said it's already in this bill. The scale may be different than Mrs Meijer would have wanted, but the phosphate bank is in it. Mrs Vos asked whether phosphate rights are comparable to pig rights. Can they, for example, also end without compensation, as has been decided by the Supreme Court for pig rights? Yeah, you can. They can be cancelled without compensation. Phosphate rights are not subject to independent property rights. On this point, they are equal to the pig rights, for which the Supreme Court has already determined. In my opinion, there can be no misunderstanding about this in the future either. It has also been made clear at several other times in the legislative process that phosphate rights are not independent property rights. Mrs Vos also asked about the exceptions for organic dairy farmers. She also referred to the Smaling motion adopted in the Lower House. As I have already indicated, I can largely carry out the Smalling motion, but not fully. The proposal on phosphate rights includes a provision to exempt land-based companies from the generic discount. 90% of all organic dairy farmers are land-bound and are therefore exempt from the generic discount. There is no provision in the bill to avoid new organic farms and expanding organic dairy farms. This has to do with the fact that the manure production ceiling is an absolute ceiling. It looks at the manure production of all animal categories in Dutch livestock farming. No distinction shall be made between the type of farm on which the manure is produced. Whether it's a organic farm or a common dairy farm, whether it's ground-bound or not, all manure counts in that ceiling. This also means that all companies, regardless of the type of business involved, are bound by that ceiling. Organic farms, including new start-ups and expanding organic farms, should therefore have sufficient phosphate rights to justify phosphate production with dairy cows on their farms, as well as common dairy farms. In view of the purpose of the legislative proposal, I do not see any room for applying, in addition to the exception for land-based companies, an exception to the phosphate duty system on the basis of the type of holding. I have actually answered Mrs Meijer's question on this. Mr Schalk asked whether the provision for shearing and shearing could be easily arranged. That point is included in the bill. It provides for the possibility of taking this into account. That's not something the State should regulate down to the level of detail. Farms that harvest dairy cows can usually achieve a fair distribution among themselves because they are very closely linked. In doing so, the government does not have to act as an arbitrator. If one really does not get out of it, the judge may be available to settle the dispute. Mrs Vos asked whether rare cattle breeds could be excluded. As is well known, I have been able to include an exception in this year's scheme for holdings that really only work with rare cattle breeds. However, the phosphate rights system does not distinguish between bovine breeds. However, rare cattle breeds are generally less productive. So they also produce less phosphate. This is taken into account in the phosphate rights system. It wasn't in the scheme. A cow was just a cow in there. Phosphate excretion is considered in the phosphate rights system. So there really is a difference. If you have rarer cattle breeds that produce less phosphate, you also need less phosphate rights to keep those cows. Mr Verheijen asked about the organic holdings which are not land-based but which do sell a surplus at another organic plant. This is the same as what I have just said in general terms about the 10% of organic farms that are not land-based: these farms are simply treated as non-land-based farms. Finally, there was a question from Mr Atsma and, in my view, from Mr Schaap and Mrs Meijer on the write-off of rights. The House of Representatives adopted an amendment aimed at abolishing phosphate rights by 1 January 2023 and making the investments depreciable on that basis. I have indicated to the Chamber that the amendment as such does not regulate this, but that I understand the wishes of the Chamber. I am consulting my colleague in the Finance Committee on the way in which this should be shaped. I believe that I have answered all the questions about the law, i.e. the phosphate rights system. So I now come to the phosphate reduction in 2017 and the specific phosphate reduction scheme, which questions have been asked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u104	I have asked the Secretary of State to refer to the recycling guide and the Geurts amendment on feed manure contracts. I haven't been able to find anything about that in any of the other pieces. I would like the Secretary of State to deal with this in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u105	Mr Atsma is right about that. An amendment tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Dik-Faber in the House of Representatives was adopted on feed manure contracts. This is now also part of the law, which provides a legal basis for broadening the definition of "ground-boundity" by including feed manure agreements in the determination of the dairy phosphate surplus. The possibility of using this legal basis depends on its feasibility. I have therefore promised the House of Representatives to study this and to investigate it and to report to the Chamber on it in time for the entry into force of the phosphate rights system. Work is currently under way on the design and implementation of the circular guide in a way that will enable it to deliver customised business-oriented work. I have always said, also in the debates in the House of Representatives, that it is essential that the circular hand is well secured, so that application does not lead to individual dairy farmers being wrongly able to take advantage of an advantage. It is important that the use of the circular guide should produce at least the same environmental result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u106	With regard to the rare breeds, you said that you have found a solution for this year, but I understand that this relates only to the young cattle, which may remain. There is a need to cut down on adult animals if necessary. Is this not exactly a category for which you can make an exception for a number of reasons? In the end, of course, it is only a very small amount of phosphate. You are clearly saying that you are not going to make an exception to this, but I think this is typically a category for which you could do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u107	As has already been said, the phosphate rights system already takes into account rare bovine breeds, because they are less productive and so you need less phosphate rights for the same livestock. There was no such distinction in the phosphate reduction rule. Besides, it didn't really matter what kind of cows you had, because they all counted the same weight. I have discussed this with the Foundation for Rare Pets and I have looked into whether we could arrange it with an adjustment of the scheme so that farms with only rare bovine breeds would not be forced by the reduction scheme to reduce livestock significantly, while we would, of course, want those rare bovine breeds to continue to exist and perhaps increase in size. To the satisfaction of that foundation, we have also adapted this scheme in such a way that it provides relief for the individual companies that this is about. Of course, this cannot be arranged for mixed farms which have many normal cows and only a few cattle of these rare breeds. These rare cattle breeds are often not registered separately either. There is still a great deal to be done. Then it just remains a consideration of the individual dairy farmer which animals he disposes of. To be honest, the reason he has them now has also been an individual consideration to keep these rare breeds. I am therefore a little confident that the dairy farmers who are interested in them will take this into account in the removal of animals from their farms, because they are convinced and passionate. Now I'm going to the scheme for this year. I said that this year we need to reduce livestock in order to be able to benefit from a new derogation. Mr Schnabel asked what the European Commission had promised on this. The Commission has promised that discussions on a new derogation can begin when it is clear that the results achieved by the Netherlands with phosphate reduction this year will be sufficient to bring total phosphate production back into line with the national ceiling by the end of the year. The Commission made that commitment at the time that I presented the phosphate reduction plan 2017 in Brussels. So we were well aware of what we were going to do and made that commitment on that basis. Of course, there is never any advance on the negotiations. What exactly the derogation is going to look like, hopefully, will be able to be discussed in detail with the European Commission from the summer onwards. These discussions are linked to the discussions on the Sixth Nitrates Directive Action Programme. As has been said, it is an absolute condition that we show that we are going to achieve the desired result. Mr Atsma and Mr Schnabel asked about my assessment of this. Mr Schnabel supported this with a complex calculation, the result of which was not very positive. That calculation would not be out of place in the education of 2032. It was a complicated calculation, but fortunately the outcome was not as bleak as Mr Schnabel assumed. Based on the preliminary figures for phosphate production last year, we expect the Netherlands to reduce 6.6 million kilos of phosphate this year. That is not the double figure, therefore. Mr Schnabel took it out of just 6.6 million kilos. Those are not the final figures yet. They will come in June, because then the new figures will come. The phosphate reduction plan 2017 included the objective of achieving 8.2 million kilos. So there is a buffer, with which we can also cope with a setback in the task or in the realization. Based on the realization so far, I am optimistic that we will actually achieve the necessary reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u108	I'm gonna have to take care of the bill and see if we can agree. In the prognosis on the last page of the CBS monitor, CBS assumes that this year, if nothing changes, 95.6 million kilos of phosphate will be produced. The ceiling in front of it is 84.9. The CBS assumes that 89.9 million kilos is feasible. In the list, it is expected that phosphate excretion of a number of other species will increase. This point has also been raised by a number of colleagues along a different line. That's pretty big; it's over a million kilos a year. If I add that up, I'm gonna end up with a pretty high number. Of course, I really hope it all works out, but we shouldn't get rich. This is also part of the Platform Education2032. We're not gonna charge ourselves rich, but we're gonna learn how to do the math. I'd like to see if the Secretary of State doesn't think too quickly: well, we'll get that. The difference between what the CBS itself predicted on January 1st of this year, the level at which CBS thinks we can come out and the level at which the Secretary of State should come out, if you add up and subtract everything, comes out at about 11 or 12 million kilos.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u109	In modern mathematics there is often a lot of text in the tasks. There's numbers in there that should put you on the wrong foot. That may be the case here. Mr Schnabel assumes the sector ceiling for dairy farming. However, at European level, we are committed to the overall national production ceiling for phosphate. That is the starting point for us. Based on last year's figures, we were 6.6 million kilos above that. So we will have to reduce 6.6 million kilos. Our goal for this year is not to achieve the sector ceiling altogether, but to get below the overall national ceiling. This means that the total figure on the basis of the provisional figures was 6.6 million. The CBS has already included in the progress report for the first quarter, which I have also sent to the Dutch Parliament. The setbacks in other animal categories have also been taken into account. The CBS said that 5 million kilos had been realized in the first quarter, but that the sum of coincidences was about 0.5 million. In the first quarter, therefore, 4.5 million out of 6.6 million were realised. In the meantime, we're a little further. We will, of course, keep as close a view as possible on the further progress. That's still going very well. That is why I also said that I am optimistic that we will actually achieve the task.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u110	Mrs. Vos, you also have a second term. I think I'm very flexible with your interruptions. You may have one now, but not for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u111	I'm getting a little worried. Just now, the Secretary of State said that every sector has to stick to its ceiling. Now he says again that the dairy sector does not have to go below its ceiling if we only get below the total ceiling. That's my problem. It becomes very unclear to me what we should focus on. Either you go for the total ceiling, or you do it by sector, but now the Secretary of State does it a little bit to him. It's getting very unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u112	Well, I'm sorry about that. That's not the point. We have a European agreement. As Mrs Vos herself said, this European agreement is about total phosphate production in the Netherlands. That is the commitment we must keep in Europe. In the Netherlands we have an agreement on the distribution between the different sectors. We want to be able to guarantee this, also on the basis of the regulations before us today, as from next year. We already have pig rights and poultry rights. From next year onwards, phosphate rights will be added to ensure that dairy farming will not be able to produce more than the sector ceiling in 2018. The task for this year is to bring the total production of phosphate in the Netherlands under the ceiling agreed with Europe for all animal categories. That is the task for this year. We do this on the basis of the phosphate reduction plan 2017. There's three main tracks in there. The first track is the feed. That is better than hoped; some have already referred to it. The second track is the stopper control. It was initially overwritten. The sector organisations have asked to honour the notifications in the first round, despite the transfer. I did. The second opening has just been made. It's under review now. Then we can determine how much reduction the scheme has resulted in in total. It is too early to make any announcement about this, but together with the sector organisations, I have already taken into account the reduction in revenue resulting from the first transfer in an adaptation of the third main track. The third main track is the phosphate reduction control. That was a plan of the sector organisations. This would have been made binding by an avv for all companies. In particular, Mr Schaap referred to this. This turned out to have a lot of content and procedural feet in the soil, which would make it complicated to actually use it to achieve the phosphate reduction. I have found an alternative, namely a ministerial arrangement based on the Agriculture Act. I thought it wise to use that opportunity to ensure that this track actually achieves the result it was intended to achieve. Mr Schaap pointed out that the government was taking on a great deal of responsibility. That's right. He's right about that. I thought that was justified, because of the social and economic importance, but I made good agreements with the sector organisations. It was and remains their plan that I translated into a ministerial arrangement. This also means that if adjustments are needed in this scheme, they will be implemented jointly. Mr Schnabel referred to these adjustments. Others did, too. The scheme has been modified twice. Of course, drawing up such a regulation in a very short time is not the ideal way to tackle the problem. Normally, the different issues and the different implementation questions would have been examined in detail before the scheme was introduced, but there was simply no time for that now. It all had to be done in a short time. Together, government and sector organisations, we had to row with the belts we found. This led us to encounter problems in practice, which meant that the scheme had to be dealt with. Perhaps this will happen again in the future, on the basis of problems that may arise. Mr Schaap rightly pointed out that the government, and I, as Secretary of State, may be called upon to do so. That is also the case. Maybe that's not nice, but I still think I've done the right thing taking that responsibility. When I look at the preliminary results, I think that this decision, although it has not been the ideal way forward, has contributed to a vigorous reduction in phosphate production. Eventually, the result counts. Mr Schnabel asked about Plan B, should it not be possible to do so, or if there is no derogation. There's no reason for pessimism anymore. I am optimistic about the results we are achieving. The most important thing is that government and industry keep a common course, maintain the results achieved and avoid new setbacks. It is sometimes a bitch, also for individual companies, because there is a lot of demand for this, but it is crucial that we continue to set our prices on the extended road. Then there's no need for B. Mr Atsma had another question about rail transport. What will be included in the regulation announced at the request of the European Commission? I also prepared, at the request of the Commission, a ministerial arrangement to ensure that the rail transport system was not sufficiently achieved. That is not the case, however. If it had been necessary, we should have such a system in place as far as the European Commission is concerned. This was not necessary, as the result was above expectations in the first quarter. That is why I postponed the entry into force of the regulation to 15 August, as was announced in advance. If results were achieved, the scheme would not enter into force. This means that, on the basis of the second quarterly report, we can see whether the intended results are still being achieved. My expectation is that the ministerial arrangement is not necessary because the results will be better than anticipated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u113	I asked what this means. Does this mean that the phosphorus content will be looked at or otherwise? In this context, my question was, above all, how to ensure that the road network remains a level playing field in Europe. We are talking not only about a European market, but above all about a world market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u114	It is not part of the plan to oblige Dutch dairy farmers to take the feed from these farms, but in practice they all do. That is why the feed trail leads to this result. Mr Schnabel asked if I see any possibilities for further reduction. Those possibilities are there. The phosphate reduction scheme contains a number of steps. The sector and the public authorities will soon have to jointly define the next step for the reduction to be achieved. There is perhaps even more to be achieved by means of the feed track in dairy farming. I will continue to consult with industry to see what additional possibilities there are. I have also agreed with the pig sector on a transport track, with an effort obligation of one million kilos during this year. That would also be helpful to realize some extra space. The derogation is also in the interests of pig farming, because pig manure naturally also competes with bovine manure. Mr Koffeman said that a lot of cattle are slaughtered, but that there are also many cows parked in Belgium, and that this is not a solution, but a shift of the problem. The phosphate reduction plan aims to reduce phosphate production in the Netherlands in 2017. This means that the dairy herd in the Netherlands needs to be reduced. It can be slaughtered, and it will be slaughtered, but it can also be exported. It is of course very good if healthy animals are exported and used elsewhere. This is also possible within both the stopper control and the phosphate reduction scheme. Can these animals possibly return to the Netherlands in 2018? That is possible, but if this Chamber adopts the phosphate rights system, then the phosphate rights system will have entered into force and that will ensure that total phosphate production in dairy farming cannot exceed the sector ceiling, so they will replace other animals. So they can return, but at that time we have the phosphate rights system to ensure total production.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u115	Then we're not talking about individual cases. The handy boys who temporarily park their cows in Belgium and bring them back have an advantage over those who have not done so. Also for this you can look at the total, but we also talked about the individual farmer who had realized stable space. The farmer who parks them in Belgium and then brings them back is a problem for his colleagues, but he has his business in order in the financial sense, and that is not exactly the intention of the regulation, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u116	I'm glad you didn't. In this year, phosphate production has to go down, so there must be fewer dairy cows in the Netherlands, otherwise we cannot achieve that. Milk cattle are either transported to slaughter as always with dairy cows, but now more than normal or exported. Whether these exports are temporary or permanent is not relevant in this case. Suppose an individual farmer decides to export his cattle to another country for a year and bring it back next year. Next year, his production potential will be limited by the amount of phosphate rights he has. They are not there this year, so this year it has to be on the basis of the scheme. But next year he cannot infinitely expand his livestock, because then he runs into the border of his phosphate rights and then has to buy up phosphate rights. That is exactly what the phosphate rights system is doing. It says either to produce less or to buy or lease more rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u117	Yes, that's right, but it may be that a trade is being considered and calves are being brought back for it. Then these calves do not count in the phosphate directive, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u118	I'm just looking for exactly what Mr Koffeman means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u119	It's about exporting cows to Belgium and getting calves back in return. There are huge quantities of calves imported into the Netherlands that do not count for the phosphate directive. How's that gonna work next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u120	Calves are currently included in phosphate regulation. There is also something to do about how we deal with it. That's what I'm talking to the sector about. Mr Koffeman had found another way around the feed track, namely by using a phosphorous or phosphate bolus. It is occasionally used in animals suffering from nutritional impairment. It does not make much sense for farmers to apply it in other cases, so it hardly affects total phosphate excretion. Mr Kuiper asked if we were going in the right direction. I answered that question. He also asked whether dairy farmers who now make use of the stopper scheme next year could in theory simply start their farms again on the basis of the granted phosphate rights. The aim of the stopper scheme is to end milk production in 2017. As a result, total phosphate production in the Netherlands is declining more rapidly. When the phosphate rights system is in operation from 2018, farms can keep dairy if they have sufficient phosphate rights for that purpose. There is no prohibition for companies that have stopped starting over next year, but I suspect that most will not make that choice. In recent years, we have seen that many companies may have intended to stop but have postponed for a while, given the circumstances. They have now taken advantage of the possibility of the stopper regime. This arrangement has made it even more attractive to stop. In my view, I have answered the questions about the scheme. Now I come to the specific questions about the judge's ruling on the settlement. Several speakers have asked for this. First of all, the judge said that the basis of the scheme is legitimate and that it pursues a legitimate general interest. That was an important statement, which was perhaps somewhat clouded by the attention paid to the other part of the judgment, namely that the scheme for 52 claimants has been terminated. It is important to recall here that the judge also had that judgment in his ruling. In the cases of those 52 plaintiffs, the State appeals because the judge's judgment is questionable. You were able to read the motivation for this in the letter I sent to the House of Representatives on Friday, of which you had a copy. I will debate this on Thursday in the House of Representatives, but I cannot, of course, go into these matters either in detail or here, because it is up to the judge to deal with those specific cases. Some speakers have generally asked for organic farmers to be excluded from this scheme. I have a very warm heart for the biological sector. Nevertheless, I do not see any good ground for keeping organic farmers entirely out of this scheme. As I said in the context of the system, organic cows also produce manure. If organic farmers have grown over the last two years, they, like other farmers who have grown, have contributed to exceeding the production ceiling. That is why these farmers must also reduce their livestock. Those who have not grown do not have to reduce, unless they are not ground bound. However, I have just said that by far the majority of organic farmers are. Neither the sector organisations nor the House of Representatives have asked for a generic exception for organic dairy farmers. This would also be extremely difficult to implement, because the criterion mentioned by Mrs Vos, namely that they do not use a derogation, applies not only to organic farms. There are also very intensive companies that do not use derogations. If you were to use that criterion to exclude companies, you would also have to exclude a number of very intensive companies from the production system. Hence the two criteria that are being used: companies that have grown since 2 July 2015 have to reduce and companies that are not land-based have to achieve an additional reduction compared to 2 July 2015, namely 4%. Almost all organic farms are exempt from the 4% reduction provided for in the phosphate reduction scheme for this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u121	I have, of course, given a much closer but also broader definition of why organic farms should be excluded. I specifically mentioned the limit of 170 kg of phosphate per hectare below which these farms remain, and I also said that they must comply with all the requirements laid down in two European regulations. They have to work towards it for years to meet it. They have to work year in, year out of structuralally within a much closer environmental framework than intensive companies. It is a sector which, in structural terms, contributes significantly less to pollution, which works structurally within the standards and which is also legally identifiable and strictly controlled. From that perspective, I think there is a good reason to say: this is a very clear category and there is reason to exclude it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u122	My main argument was that organic dairy farms, like all other farms, were warned before 2015: watch out for growing. They knew that all the growth they would achieve after 2 July 2015 was at their own expense and risk. It has been their decision as an entrepreneur to continue to grow, despite the fact that on 2 July 2015 the government had clearly stated in the letter of my predecessor, Secretary of State Dijksma, that if you are still growing, it is entirely at your own risk and you should take into account that you will be able to get into a situation in which that growth will be removed through the phosphate rights system. It should have been taken into account from that moment on. Those companies that did not, and which continued to grow despite the warning on 2 July 2015, have done so knowingly, and have also contributed to further exceeding the phosphate production ceiling. So they have indeed contributed to the problem we are dealing with. It is therefore justified that they should be faced with the same consequences as all other entrepreneurs with a different type of business who have made the same choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u123	Very briefly, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u124	I see a difference. Here too, companies have decided to expand before 2 July 2015. They did this for a reason, because there was a shortage of organic milk in the Netherlands, also at that time. So there was definitely reason to think: there is demand. Also in the Lower House and here there has been constant discussion about whether we should make an exception for organic companies. A motion was passed in the Lower House asking the State Secretary to make an exception for the companies that started before 2 July 2015 to develop, switch or grow. In the political debate, there has certainly been a trend in favour of excluding these companies. I think that is a really different situation from that of the usual companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u125	The discussion has been to exclude them from the discount. As I said, the vast majority of organic farms are indeed excluded because they are ground-bound. All land-based companies are excluded from the generic discount in the phosphate duty system, and they are also excluded from the 4% reduction for this year's phosphate reduction scheme. For all land-based farms, they are already excluded from measures which affect non-ground-based farms. Yes, in a motion, the House of Representatives has requested that this be dealt with specifically for organic companies. I then submitted the bill to the Chamber. The House of Representatives has thus been able to assess whether it is considered that this had been done sufficiently and a large majority of the House of Representatives accepted the bill and made a number of amendments to it themselves, but has not chosen to include a specific exception in the phosphate rights system for organic farmers. Furthermore, Mrs Vos points out what she calls "special cases," such as companies that started to switch to organic or invest before 2 July 2015. Those are precisely situations on which the court of appeal has given a ruling against which the State appeals. It's really up to the judge to judge those cases. That is why I cannot go into this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u126	I have a very short question, which has to do with my second-term input. You began to say that the judge found a number of things. You mentioned, among other things, the general interest. May I conclude from this that we agree that we are allowed to place the complainants' request under Article 1 EP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u127	I don't quite understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u128	The public interest must be weighed, whether something is regulated by law. But the third rule is, of course, whether it's proportional. That's what I see in judgment. May I conclude that the Secretary of State also believes that it should be checked against Article 1 EP, on property rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u129	You mean Article 1 of the First Protocol of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u130	Regulation of ownership must always be tested against that. That is what we have done, both with regard to the phosphate rights system and with regard to this system. Three criteria apply. The first criterion is legality. The Court has also examined that point, and the judge considers that the basis of the scheme is legitimate. Secondly, regulation must serve the general interest. The judge has said that this serves the public interest. The third weighting is proportionality. The government, the regulator, always has a wide discretion. This is one of the elements to be addressed in the appeal. The question of proportionality will be addressed, as will the discretion of the public authorities to establish proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u131	I shall come back to the words of Mrs Vos. I do not understand why the Secretary of State actually says that organic farmers contribute as much to the surplus of manure and phosphate as regular livestock farming. If we were all farmers like the organic farmers, we wouldn't be here tonight. They meet all kinds of requirements that are imposed on organic farming. If they were all farmers like regular livestock farming, the problem would have been much greater. Perhaps the Secretary of State can explain again why their poop, as it were, is exactly the same, and why they are making an equally big contribution. I think they are making a much smaller contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u132	Organic farming must meet a number of conditions for the use of manure. The use standards are actually the same as the standard European level. An organic dairy farmer in the Netherlands does not use the derogation, because if he did, he would not be organic. Then he does not meet the requirements for organic dairy farming. But that's about the use of manure. Something else is the total production of manure in the Netherlands. The Netherlands has an agreement with the European Commission on the total amount of manure that can be produced, regardless of how much of it is used. It concerns the total quantity that can be produced in the Netherlands. It does not matter whether, where and how this production is used. The European Commission is only charging us for the quantity of production. Then it does not matter whether that manure is produced on a common farm, a organic farm or a nature-based farm, on a land-based farm or a non-land-based farm. All production is equally heavy, every kilo of manure is equally heavy and every kilo of phosphate is equally heavy. This means that every kilo of phosphate produced by organic dairy farmers is just as heavily included in the phosphate production ceiling as any kilogram of manure produced on a non-organic farm. Organic companies that have grown over the past two years, while the government had already said "do not grow; if you do, it is at your own expense and risk," have also contributed to further exceeding the production ceiling. Then it is not unreasonable for them, as well as any other company, to be asked to contribute to solving the problem that they have contributed to. A number of speakers have said that they see a link between the bottleneck provision in the phosphate rights system and the discussion on bottleneck cases under the phosphate reduction scheme 2017. I have said a few times that there is no legal connection. They are two separate schemes, which must therefore also be assessed separately. The problem provision in this year's scheme is actually one-on-one equal to what is stated in the sixth paragraph of Article 23 of the bill. The bill also contains the ninth paragraph of that article by means of an amendment from the House of Representatives. This is in anticipation of a possible extension of the bottleneck provision under the phosphate rights system. This is advised by the Kalden Committee. There is no such provision under the scheme. This year we cannot anticipate a provision that is being made in the legal system. The disputes were fought before the court, with the verdict for the 52 plaintiffs. In that case, the court of appeal should clarify whether there are specific cases which should not be covered by the rules. As has been said, that is disputed by the State, but the judge will decide on that in an appeal. In exceptional situations that are disproportionate, I have a discretionary power. I use this very reluctantly, but I do have an eye for any disproportionate situations. That requires very careful customization. Let me give you an example of a situation in which I have applied the discretion. A farmer who had traded his Frisian Holsteiners for Jerseys had a larger number of cows, but did not realize higher phosphate production. These cows are less productive and therefore bring lower phosphate production per cow. This year this farmer would be forced to reduce his livestock, while under the phosphate rights system he would be given sufficient phosphate rights to exploit the entire herd. I thought that was an excellent example of a situation which could reasonably be described as unfair in the light of the objective of the phosphate reduction plan. I therefore excluded this company from the reduction target in the scheme. That is an example of a special, very exceptional situation in which I can use the discretionary power and also have the willingness to use it. Mr Schnabel asked me to respond specifically to the fact that the dairy farmers concerned, who have now been agreed by the judge, do not have to reduce their livestock. The judgment of the court results in the phosphate reduction plan 2017 scheme being terminated for these companies. As I have just said and stated in the letter of formal notice, I will appeal against that judgment. If the appeal court agrees with the State, the scheme will still be fully applicable, including to these undertakings. It is therefore too early to establish with certainty whether the dairy farmers concerned do not need to reduce their livestock in 2017. That is why the judgment of the Supreme Court is crucial. Mr Schaap and Mr Ten Hoeve asked how I would hold the matter together in the light of that ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u133	Mr. Dercksen would like to interrupt first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u134	You are now setting out the picture of when you are granted the right to appeal, Secretary of State. Maybe you can paint the picture of when you're not. So where are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u135	Then I will have to look at that statement and study it and assess its consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u136	We now need to adopt a law that you yourself are now saying has a bottleneck regime in place that is basically identical to that for 2017, but that the committee is now going to look into it. So now we have an arrangement that the judge at first instance has said: we are not going to do that. As for the law that we have to pass now, you say: if I am wronged, then we will see. That is what we are doing here, namely adopting legislation which we can rely on to be actually implemented. And it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u137	I think it is very good that Mr Dercksen has the task of assessing legislation in mind. However, he is once again asking questions that are not about the legislation, but about the regime for this year, the ministerial regime, on the basis of a completely different law. That's what this trial is about. It's not about the phosphate rights system. It could not even be about the phosphate rights system, because today we are talking about whether you want to agree to that law. So it can't even be judged by the judge. That legal procedure is therefore about the phosphate reduction scheme 2017. The court shall review specific situations under this specific scheme. That is why I have repeatedly argued that this does not affect the phosphate rights system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u138	Let me rephrase the question. Suppose you are also unsuccessful in appeal. In the meantime, these companies, which already seem to be joining 400 to 500 other companies, will be allowed to produce more phosphate. How do we deal with that in the light of 2018? It may be a hypothetical question, but you also deal hypothetically with the case where you are said to be right. Then I also want you to reflect on the case where things aren't going well. There are hundreds of companies that will be allocated more phosphate rights. I will also mention Brussels in the second term. The question is how do we deal with it in the light of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u139	Here is Mr Dercksen's misconception, because they are not granted any more phosphate rights. The judge cannot make that assessment, because the phosphate rights system is not the subject of that trial. That lawsuit is about the phosphate reduction scheme. The Court is currently examining the phosphate rights system, not the judge. Therefore, the court cannot allocate additional phosphate rights for the production in 2018. That is why I have always said that this judicial procedure has no impact on the situation of 2018. Indeed, for these companies too, this legal process will not make any difference to the amount of phosphate rights they receive in 2018. What the scheme is about is the amount of reduction that companies have to achieve in 2017. If they do not, the scheme provides for a levy. This means that companies have to pay a sum of money if they do not reduce. That's what the plaintiffs disputed. The judge said they were right in the first place. I have already said that I find that questionable and that I will do so, so I will appeal. Then it is up to the court on appeal to rule on that matter again. Mr Schaap and Mr Ten Hoeve asked how I keep things together. As I said earlier, there is close and good cooperation between me and the various sectors involved. We discuss every step of the process intensively. We also jointly monitor progress. As I said, I am very optimistic about whether we are going to achieve the desired result. This therefore gives every reason to continue to support the plan with each other and to be able to cope with any setbacks with optimism. Mrs Meijer and Mr Dercksen asked: if you now look at the 52 plaintiffs, how many farmers are in the same situation? That's one of the questions on the table about this court ruling. In the judgment, the court does not make clear the facts or circumstances which led to its judgment in the individual cases of the claimants. That is why I cannot comment on entrepreneurs who may be in a similar situation. I have no idea of the number of entrepreneurs who might want to take up a case. I also read all the media reports about this, but I do not have a direct view of it myself. Mrs Vos specifically asked if I meant that retroactive penalties could still be imposed on claimants if they were unsuccessful on appeal. I have actually just answered that question: yes, that is possible. That will also happen if the State on appeal is upheld. In that case, the scheme would still have been fully applicable to the claimants, even during the period when it had been declared inapplicable by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. In that case, a levy will therefore still be imposed if there is reason to do so. I have another category that I will call "other questions."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u140	Do you need much longer for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u141	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u142	Quarter, max?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u143	I hope so. It's supposed to work. Mr Schalk asked about the reform of the Sixth Action Programme. I am currently working on the Sixth Action Programme. That runs from 2018 to 2021. I seek to focus the measures in the Sixth Action Programme even more than in the previous action programmes on areas where water quality problems occur and where agricultural practices cause these problems. I will inform the House of Representatives about this when I have more clarity about the implementation of the action programme. Mr Atsma asked about the Nitrate Directive in general. He said that it is interpreted differently in different Member States. The Nitrates Directive obliges Member States to draw up an action programme every four years for vulnerable zones designated by them. The implementation of the action programmes is tailor-made and should reflect the situation that exists in the Member State. Those situations vary greatly. That is why the action programmes often look different. Mr Schalk asked: is the Nitrate Directive not primarily aimed at improving water quality? Yeah, that's what I started this debate with. In 2017, we must have taken all the measures necessary to achieve the objectives set out in the directive. Many different measures are being taken, mainly concerning pollution from manure and into groundwater or surface water. Mr Ten Hoeve asked: how would our environment be without the EU's frameworks? I am convinced that if the EU did not set these frameworks, the Netherlands itself would have taken measures to ensure the quality of the environment. I believe that I have answered all the questions concerning the derogation in the meantime. There are a few questions that have been asked that I should be allowed the freedom to say so as if they were put to a member of the cabinet who was at the beginning of his period. Several speakers asked for a vision of dairy farming, a vision of the future of livestock farming in the Netherlands and what this cabinet is going to do about it. Now I know that the attempt at formation that has taken place over the past two months has failed and that this cabinet is undoubtedly still a little longer, but I do not know whether we have been given so much time to really form a policy on these kinds of questions, apart from the question of whether that would be appropriate in a missionary state. What we are talking about now is reducing phosphate production in this year and securing phosphate production at a certain level as of next year. Mr Verheijen spoke about the sustainability of livestock farming in general, the opinion of the Nijpels Committee and the further sustainability of dairy farming. Those are real questions for a future cabinet. That should indicate how we intend to proceed with this. This cabinet has taken steps in this direction. I can imagine that the question of how to proceed with livestock farming in the Netherlands for a future coalition is perhaps the most important question in the field of agricultural policy. I hope that I have answered the questions of the Chamber adequately. If not, I'm sure one of the members will be calling the bell right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u144	I see that Mr Koffeman is standing at the interrupting microphone. He may ask a short question, because he will soon have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u145	I would like to point out that the Secretary of State has not answered all the questions. I asked a question about the fact that a number of low-production animals were imported into the Netherlands shortly before the deadline. These low-production animals produce less phosphate. That's what the Secretary of State himself said when he talked about the holsteins. However, the cows that are disposed of are assessed on an average basis. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that that average does not work in that sense? If you remove low-productive animals that are sick or old, which at least do not give much milk anymore, and replace them with high-productive animals, then phosphate production goes up. Does he also think that increasing the milk yield, for example milking three times a day and giving twice as much food, means that you increase the number of grazing livestock units in terms of phosphate production and that you simply bypass the purpose of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u146	With every arrangement that comes up, there are undoubtedly always a few smart guys who have come up with something that makes them a little more profitable. I do not rule that out in this case either, although I do not have such a clear picture of it as Mr Koffeman is now putting forward. What matters here is that we simply have clear agreements on how we measure phosphate production in the Netherlands. We're gonna get a visual on them, too. We have clearly agreed on what task we are facing, and we have also agreed on this with the European Commission. We will have to succeed in achieving those agreements. As I have already said, the phosphate reduction plan for this year contains a buffer. The task we have set ourselves is greater than the exact reduction that is likely to be needed to get back under the ceiling. The reduction call we have made is greater, because we take into account any setbacks. They can occur in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u147	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u148	The Secretary of State knows, of course, that the average cow's milk yield has increased enormously in recent decades, from 4,000 kilos to over 8,000 kilos of milk per year. That seems to be increasing. Does the Secretary of State agree that when you want to limit phosphate production, you should limit the maximum number of litres of milk you get from a cow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u149	We are also, of course, looking at the question of whether it would be possible in the future to really justify at company level what your phosphate production is, so that it becomes more specific. That's extremely difficult. It was already about the KringloopWijzer. We are now going to have a bit of a vision debate, but there are trends throughout the livestock sector that are based on increasing productivity. Mr Koffeman and I probably agree that it is not desirable if this development continues. I also think that there are more and more people in the various livestock sectors who also say that it is not wise to continue with this and that it is wiser to keep livestock as naturally as possible and to benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u150	Thank you. I want to suspend for five or six minutes so everyone can catch their breath, including the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u151	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u152	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I have, of course, also listened with more than ordinary interest to the contributions of my fellow Members. Especially when I heard Mr Vos's contribution, I thought I should say here that we must be careful not to create unnecessary contradictions. Mrs Vos spoke about organic dairy farming on the one hand and intensive dairy farming on the other. But I think it would be wise, above all, to note that the vast majority of farms are common farms with an average farm size of 89 to 100 dairy cows. Those aren't big, intensive companies. These are common companies, some of which are also extremely land-based. Some even have so much ground available that this law would absolutely not have to be for them. In this sense, I can also follow the Secretary of State's reasoning regarding organic farming and the position of organic farming. This certainly applies to his reasoning in the little debate with colleagues from, among others, the SP and GroenLinks. If you find that the organic sector, at least the dairy herd, has grown by more than 50% over the last four to five years, it is right that the Secretary of State should follow that reasoning. I'm not gonna take it off either. I welcome the fact that the recent calculations have shown that we must also achieve the phosphate ceiling, as we are given. It's getting closer and closer. The Secretary of State speaks of an ambition of 6.6 million kilos, whereas it actually assumes 8.3 million kilos. That means very simply that there's a piece of space, a piece of rack of 1.7 million kilos in it. If you calculate that quickly, you can see that it's about a rack or a space of about a quarter, of 25%. In any case, that brings me to say that we can really be optimistic. At any rate, the 2017 phosphate reduction plan, as it has now been presented, seems to provide a good basis for a positive approach that will allow us to achieve a new derogation. I hope that the Secretary of State has at least heard what this Chamber thought about it. He has discretion, of course, but I think that the House of Representatives should also appeal to him. By the way, the House of Representatives later this week also talks about the phosphate reduction plan, and I will now stop doing so. We welcome the statement by the Secretary of State that he too is keen to achieve the derogation for the coming years. This means that the ceiling that has been outlined here must be implemented. I come to the troubles in relation to the law. It is good that the Secretary of State also points out in our direction that there is a serious opinion on him. I myself used the words 'binding advice', but the idea of a serious opinion has been taken over. In any case, it has been explained in such a way that, as far as he is concerned, it is completely clear. This important advice is assessed by the RVO, the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands. Next, an entrepreneur may have recourse to the ruling of the State Service, at least that is how I understood the Secretary of State. The question of what exactly is the role of the Secretary of State himself and at what point is that role to be expected remains interesting. So it's a serious advice. We agree on that. The State Secretary made a number of comments on the phosphate bank. I indicated in an interrupting debate that, as far as we are concerned, the fact that Europe is taking part in the allocation of rights must be taken into account. A number of suggestions have been made here, but I would like to point out that it has also been proposed at an earlier stage to divide up the part of the space that is in the phosphate bank, perhaps even generically, over the sector as a whole, so that the pain is also a little less. We have heard here unisono from all the groups, not least the CDA Group, that the pain is coming to many companies hard. I can imagine that, especially in the early stages, a substantial part of the space that is still available through the phosphate bank will be spread over all companies. Then you don't have a discussion about the level playing field either. Then you're not having a discussion with Brussels. In that respect, I would like to give consideration to that suggestion to the Secretary of State. As far as taxation is concerned, it is stated that the system of write-off should indeed be possible. I will ask the Secretary of State when that will be clear. I very much believe that it is at least a matter for the entry into force of the law. That goes without saying. But if that were to be the case earlier, in other words before the final vote in this Chamber, it would be a good idea for us to do so. The same is true of the clarification of the feed-fertiliser contracts that I have referred to. The amendment on this subject has been in place for a long time now. I can imagine that the Secretary of State for the E-Instance will let this Chamber and, of course, others know what he intends to do with it. In short, I am generally satisfied with what the Secretary of State has said. I am also satisfied with the fact that the Netherlands seems to be on course in terms of phosphate reduction ambitions, which in any case brings the derogation closer to us all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u153	I would like to make one comment, Mr President. Mr Atsma specifically mentioned me. He said the organic dairy farms have grown 50%. I'd like to give him back that there are a lot of switches in there. So these are all farms that have gone to fewer cows per hectare and to lower milk production. I therefore believe that this has helped to reduce the total amount of manure and environmental pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u154	The CBS figures cover the period from 2011 to 2016. If I remember correctly, this is a period of growth of more than 50% of the organic dairy herd. Especially in the last year I think there have been more than a hundred switches; I do this out of my mind. They haven't been included in that percentage yet. But it is clear to everyone that there is evident growth. That therefore underlines the position taken by the Secretary of State here earlier and also emphasises the CDA Group. The fact that I spoke to Mrs Vos personally was not so much because of this point, but because she almost consistently suggested a contradiction between biologically and intensively. On the other hand, dairy farming is mostly common.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u155	Do you have a question about that, Mrs. Fox? Please be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u156	I would like to make a brief comment and clarify one point. I don't want to sketch that contradiction so much. I am particularly concerned about the following. If one category can be excluded, it is this sector. It is legally very clear. I do not want to say that common organic farms are not good companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u157	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u158	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed and very pointy answer to the many questions that have been asked and for the reactions to the comments that have been made. I note that the Secretary of State is very optimistic, but perhaps it should be included. I myself am inclined to be a little more economical and to look at it a little more critically. I also continue to find the calculation somewhat worrying in the long term. I assume that, after the second and third quarters, we will see what the CBS reports yield. I think it is very important, also for this Chamber, to consider whether the development is indeed going in the direction which should then be the protection of the derogation. I have really noticed that the Secretary of State continues to be cautious in this regard. It is not a right and it is not a fact, but it is the creation of a good negotiating basis for the European Commission to ensure that that certainty of that derogation is brought as close to us as possible. I do notice the following, also in the way in which many of the problems have become apparent. What happened? Farmers, and in fact all farmers have to apply individually for the derogation for their farms. In the question of how many kilos it may be, there is even a difference between soil species and so on. Then there will be a switch, because suddenly it is said: we all add that up and then you have all become part of the problem. That tension is in all these things: you feel it. It is also part of these problems and plays a role in the position of organic farmers. It actually starts out as a scheme per company, which can vary greatly from one company to another. Organic farms do not have to apply for a derogation at all. But at national level, it becomes a common problem, in which the differences are determined not by company, but by particularity. This is a rare race, a special investment position and so on. The Secretary of State has also mentioned a number of examples. This leads to tensions and we feel them very strongly here. My party supports the idea that the position of organic dairy farmers should be strengthened, in future too, and in relation to the whole debate on the development of sustainable livestock farming. That perspective for the future is very important. The situation is sort of a political catch 22. If we say no to the Secretary of State's draft laws, we will take responsibility for what the Secretary of State will undoubtedly see as a very great risk with a potentially very great disadvantage for Dutch farmers. If we say yes, the Secretary of State can't guarantee us that this risk is gone and that it's all gonna work out as hoped and meant by him. It remains a consideration for us to consider what we consider to be responsible. That's gonna turn out to be next week. We're all in a catch 22. That makes it exciting, but also difficult to come to a clear conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u159	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and for the debate so far. For a moment there was a feeling today that we could have kept milk quotas better. Maybe we would all have been at home this evening and not had this debate. But we're dealing with this, and so we're gonna have to do this with each other. What struck me, also for the future, is that the Secretary of State was a little cautious and almost anxious when it came to the state aid rules. I'm not going to repeat all that now, but I thought it was special to hear that apparently there were opportunities to fight that. That wasn't done because this would take a long time. Then I think to myself: then you must have used the terms you would have used if you had come up against them, for the future. That also applied a bit to the export of phosphate grains. The reaction was: we haven't been so good at it for three years, so can we come up with it now? I'd stay a little away from that. You could honestly say that it didn't go well for a few years, but that you now have a much better idea. Maybe that will help in the discussions on the next action programme. I understand that the Secretary of State is not going to tell us tonight what all the commitments are for the negotiations, but I hope he can indicate whether he is trying to reform the action programme, using, for example, the area-based approach and possibly a production ceiling, and to break up the derogation. Derogation is really something for next to it. Creative things can then be introduced to look at where we have more space to offer or to receive, for example when exporting phosphate grains, which I have been talking about. I would very much like to comment on the advisory committee, which is going to deal with the problems. In my opinion, we were not fully discussed about this. I am trying to put it clearly once again in the hope that the Secretary of State will be able to give a clear answer to it in a moment. When I read the letter, I see that the committee has two tasks. It has the task, on the one hand, of advising on individual cases on whether or not to broaden the supply of bottled water. On the other hand, the committee must determine whether there are groups of companies which are disproportionately affected by the introduction of the system. The Secretary of State always connects the two. However, in view of what the committee will then have to do with the matters to be taken into account, everything it does in the first task, the handling of the problem supply, will be taken away from the generic group, i.e. from that group. The second part deals with the groups of dairy farmers affected disproportionately. Then I come to Article 1 of the first Protocol of the ECHR, and I hope that I will say it correctly now, Madam President-in-Office of the Council. It asks whether it is provided for by law and the public interest. This has all been welcomed. The third element, however, is whether there is a fair balance. If not, that will have to be compensated for. These companies have invested heavily in this. What kind of compensation should be on the other side? If this only means that phosphate rights must be divided a little differently, then I can imagine that the groups that will be referred to as 'disproportionately affected', together with all of them, will also go to court and so on. I hope there will be a little more clarity about that. Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u160	Very briefly, because your time is about up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u161	When you started talking, I had two seconds. Perhaps the Secretary of State has noticed that the SGP raises serious doubts about this law. Before this Chamber votes on it, a further debate will be held in the House of Representatives, in particular on the letter I have just spoken about. In part, the outcome of this debate, and what will follow in the House of Representatives, will be used by my group to reach a verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u162	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. In my speech in the first term, I might occasionally radiate something in the vein of "Is this gonna be okay?', In other words, is there enough direction to be given here to the whole process we are now in? I must say that the answer given by the Secretary of State has given me quite a positive vote, even optimistic. This was also due to the answer to my question as to why it was not a general declaration but a regulation. Because that's how you pull it at you. Are you gonna keep the sector that way? Don't you think it's gonna be a little bit of your opponent? I think the Secretary of State has made it sufficiently clear that he wants to solve it together with the sector. I would stress very strongly that it is very important to keep that sector in mind. Try to keep the unity within that sector out of all power. This is a job that needs to be done together. The way the Secretary of State says it gives me cause for optimism. Of course it's a bit weeping afterwards, but sometimes I think: if only we had those products, because that would make the story a lot easier. But I hear the boomerang coming back: then you shouldn't have been a VVD, because then you wouldn't have been co-guilty of that either. I admit that, but I made my position clear at that time. This remark saves a serious interruption. As far as the phosphate bank is concerned, I am very sceptical. If the space that lies on that bench is used for all kinds of very special cases, it will cause very difficult discussions and, above all, definition problems, for example, when it comes to the question of what a young farmer is. I have already said that it is all in sizes; it is sometimes an unclear whole. It will be a virtue to me if the space that lies on the shelf is used generically to mitigate the general skim a little bit. Then you're out of a lot of problems and explanations. But I'm just giving it to the Secretary of State to reconsider. For oh woe if there is some space and you start to beg it with a certain degree of randomness and there are all kinds of exceptional situations again. Then you get caught in a discussion that mainly drives the sector apart again, and it has to be held together. I'm gonna be on the committee getting hurt. I'm not the first to bring that up. I would be very careful to have that committee measured with double standards, namely to have them identify the categories in which there is a difficult situation and at the same time ask them what this means and whether it is feasible. You then run the risk of saying: oh category, you are right; you are so incredibly right that you cannot be right, because the consequences are too great. Then I would say: do not make the opinion too binding and keep your finger on the pulse as far as the feasibility is concerned, and tell the committee that it will be very grateful for the clear advice and that it will be checked whether the advice fits in with the system, so that the responsibility for what is done with it ultimately rests with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u163	With the last remarks made by Mr Schaap, he really takes the consultative committee completely out of the atmosphere that it has something binding to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u164	Binding is fine with me, but it becomes hybrid when the double standard is in it, indicating what the troubles are, indicating what the consequences are and giving that binding to the Secretary of State, at the same time saying whether this does not have too great consequences for the rest of the sector. On that double standard, I say give one half to the committee and keep the other half nicely with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u165	So we say: something can be disproportionate, but it's a little too many, so never mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u166	No, part allocation. So I'm gonna find the guilder center.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u167	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u168	I'm very curious to see how the Secretary of State will respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u169	So is Mr. Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u170	I'm very curious about that, too. We share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u171	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I really do disagree with a number of things he has said on a number of points. First of all, I should like to point out that what we are doing today would not have been necessary if you, Mr President, were to speak to the cabinet and also to the predecessors, and the sector had said much earlier: it is not going well; we are going to come up with a good production control system ourselves. I agree with those who say: if only we had the milk quota. I find it sad for ordinary companies that are hit hard by this, that it has had to come to this. Let me make that clear. But why I have asked for extra attention to be paid to organic farms is because I think that this category, which has always worked under the European standard of 170 kilograms per hectare, which should not even participate in the derogation and does not do so, really does have other arguments. Now the Secretary of State says that this is about the ceiling and that they also contribute to exceeding it. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that there is only a ceiling because a derogation had to be applied for. That was not necessary for this group of companies. We are really talking about a very clearly defined legal group that does not need and should not even be allowed to do so. What the Secretary of State says here, I think is the pinnacle of system thinking. He actually says: the importance is now that ceiling; that is your system. However, these are just companies that deliver good environmental performance year in and year out. They do not contribute to the pollution of water and groundwater, the point where the Secretary of State started his story. They are not participating, and that is also his goal. These farms do not contribute to this, because they produce below the limit of 170 kilograms of nitrogen per hectare. And yet the Secretary of State says: they are co-guilty and therefore they must bleed. I find this an incomprehensible and indigestible reasoning. I therefore continue to advocate the exclusion or isolation of this group. That costs the Secretary of State about 0.2 million kilograms of phosphate. It's not really about anything. I really do not understand why the Secretary of State would not want to take this step. The Secretary of State can of course say that organic manure is also polluting, but organic manure is in a very separate manure market. That manure is deposited on organic arable land, on land and is even badly needed. There is even a shortage of this organic manure and all this within the environmental standards, as I have just said. This also applies to those 10% organic farms which, according to the definition of the law, are not land-based. In the system they are ground bound and follow the rules perfectly. Since I would like to see extra room being created for these companies, I will table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Meijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Schnabel, Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that organic dairy farms belong to a small group of legally strictly defined holdings which produce according to the strict requirements of EC Regulations 834/2007 and 889/2008;]] [[having regard to the fact that organic dairy farms have to comply with the European standards for fertilising without a derogation, and that organic cattle manure is strongly needed for the fertilising of organic grassland and arable land due to the prohibition of fertilizer;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for a scheme allowing dairy farms registered as organic or organic in conversion on 2 July 2015 to apply for phosphate rights on the basis of their livestock in October 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34295-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u172	Finally, I would like to say a few words about rare breeds. The solution which the Secretary of State mentioned in reply to my question is, in my view, only a kind of half solution. By the year 2017, a lot of rare animals have to disappear. For 2018 they will simply be covered by the phosphate system. Although this is against a lower standard, this will lead to the disappearance of rare animals. The Secretary of State just indicated himself he doesn't want to. He even wants there to be an increase. I think he will really have to take other measures to promote this. In this period, I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u173	Mr. Chairman. I, too, do not see much movement with the Secretary of State. He does not seize the opportunity to support the objectives we have set ourselves in the area of sustainable livestock farming, the cow in the meadow and so on. I think that's a missed opportunity. I'm sorry about that. We're gonna be all over the question of how to look at these organic cows now. If all farmers would be farmers like the biofarmer, then we just weren't here; we might have been home tonight. Then we wouldn't need the derogation we're all so worried about. However, the Secretary of State chooses to take the knife over them too, while it is not their fault that the agreed ceiling has been exceeded for three years now. Mrs Vos has just mentioned this. As far as the marketability of rights is concerned, the Secretary of State says that it has to be because otherwise companies will not be able to balance themselves, but you will not do so by leaving it to the market, because then it will simply win the highest bidder. Then you don't have any direction as to who you're spending the rights to. We know very little about the rights to be distributed: how much do they cost, what do they get us and how do we put that system back in 2023? I would therefore urge the Secretary of State to put these two options next to each other and to examine the difference between the phosphate bank with and without negotiable rights: look at those advantages and disadvantages, put them next to each other and then put them before the Chamber. I made a motion for that. The President shall: Mr Meijer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that:]] [[the system of marketable phosphate rights will cost starting and expanding dairy farmers;]] [[these rights will initially be granted free of charge, which will in principle provide securities, whereas this system is expected to become redundant by 2023 and there is no idea how to end it;]] [[the purpose of the phosphate rights system is to regulate the quantity of phosphates to be released and to regulate this through a system of non-marketable rights;]] [[a system of non-negotiable rights has the advantage of allowing them to be issued as a matter of priority, encouraging objectives such as the promotion of sustainable livestock farming, regional distribution and grazing, while discouraging intensive livestock farming;]] [[calls on the Government to develop the option of a public phosphate bank with non-marketable rights and to submit it to the Chambers for assessment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34295-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u174	Then I have another comment on what the Secretary of State said about the rare races. He said that in a mixed business regular cows and special or rare cows are considered in the same way. The Secretary of State said he thinks the owner at the disposal will pay attention to those particular races. I think that the Secretary of State might be quite wrong about that, because it is precisely in tight times that the room for lovers disappears, of course, and leads the way. That is quite logical: these particular cows simply give less milk and then the Secretary of State has to guess which cow goes first to the slaughterhouse. I conclude that I see little ambition from the Secretary of State to meet us and the votes of the Socialist Party that there are nine of us to gather. I am seriously considering advising my group not to vote in favour of the introduction of the phosphate rights system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u175	Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to move into the State Secretary's position. At the end of his term, he chose his time by pointing out his missionary status. Maybe it's good to also outline the perspective from this Chamber. We took office in June 2015 and on 2 July the famous letter appeared. So it took us two years to actually have the first debate with the government on how it came about, what the future will bring us and what vision we can share with each other on this important sector. Several contributions have highlighted the need to reflect in this Chamber on the position of the dairy sector and the future. Of course, there is also the diversity of views. So I was a little shocked by the input of colleagues Atsma and Schaap. They said that the rights we then get in that phosphate bank can best simply be distributed in proportion. Then that does not happen from the point of view that we should steer, that we should selectively move towards a more ground-based sector. The Secretary of State has told us that with these legislative proposals he would like to strengthen that ground-boundness. We also support him in that regard. It would be a pity if there were such a big difference of opinion in this Chamber. We really must make every effort to steer the sector further in this direction. Then you will also have the discussion about the steering character, how to discuss it with the sector itself and what contribution the sector can make. The Secretary of State has chosen not to give further reflections on how to proceed. I imagine this room will. I do not have a motion for that, but I have mentioned reports from the Planning Bureau for the Environment and from institutions from Wageningen that have previously considered the future. I can imagine that we would invite these institutions to a hearing to discuss with them their views at the moment. This is not the last debate we will have in this Chamber with the government, missionary or missionary. A number of points have been raised by my fellow Members, and I also have concerns about how the biological sector is actually going to work and about the companies that are not covered by the safeguard regulation. The same applies to the rare breeds. I also have the concern that it will be okay with that. But it is also appropriate to note that this discussion is still taking place in the Lower House this week, and that the Secretary of State has a rather unenviable position, because he also has to deliver to Brussels in the coming weeks. At the same time, the legal procedures that are still under way require consistency in the response. He gave it to me tonight. I would therefore like to thank him for his reply. He remained well within the policy area that the Lower House gave him earlier. I see this in the debate on the phosphate bank, because of which the House of Representatives actually limited its application rather than giving the Secretary of State the opportunity to promote this more strongly in the direction of soil and pasture. We note that this is no different at the moment. So I also understand, from what Mr Schnabel said about the phosphate ceiling, that this is quite troubling us. Mrs. Vos also mentioned that system thinking. You have to deliver a collective result while there are Union rules that say that you should be able to settle it on an individual level by company and business type. The European regulation also allows organic farms without a derogation to operate their own farms without being polluting, but this does not help us to solve the problem of the possible reduction of livestock numbers on these farms. We regret that this will be the final conclusion of the debates we are holding in the States General this week. Nevertheless, we wish the Secretary of State every success in ensuring that the phosphate rights bill is passed. In this way, we can indicate in Brussels that we are laying down a basis for meeting the requirements of Brussels on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u176	Mr. Chairman. A few months ago, I stood before Minister Kamp when we talked about the net neutrality regulation. I then tabled a motion asking for that bill to be retained because it shattered with other regulations. Minister Kamp said I'm not the ghost rider; that's all the other drivers on my side of the road. But in the meantime, the first trial has taken place and the Minister has been unsuccessful. So I warned against the possibility that we would have to deal with a bill that would have to be repaired afterwards. There is a parallel to be drawn, because now there is even legislation for that. Yes, it was an arrangement of 2017, but I also heard the Secretary of State say that in the committee that comes, the regulation that the judge has already rejected has been incorporated into the legislation. It is, of course, difficult to approve in advance the regulation that the committee has yet to come up with, because we do not know where it is going. I have another question about the reduction scheme. For Brussels it was a set-up, a start-up, a run-up, a condition for getting to the 2018 legislation. What if also in appeal the run-up to that law is rejected and the reduction scheme of 2017 is not accepted by the judge? What is Brussels going to say about that? In my speech I also referred to other sources of phosphate taxation. I checked Deltares' measuring points again. You can see that especially in the western part of the Netherlands and in the head of Friesland and Groningen are the biggest problems with surface water. Those are no matter how you turn it or turn it around, not the places where our farmers sit and where most of the manure is produced. I asked how this falls within the scope of policy. I didn't get an answer. Maybe the Secretary of State can still respond to that. What do phosphate rights do with companies that were already below the norm? That's been discussed a lot. Isn't that sector gonna be locked? The Secretary of State does not want the landscape to be less varied, but I think that is a conclusion. It may be an undesirable conclusion that we do not want and neither does the Secretary of State, so how is he going to prevent it? I am sorry that I have met little empathy in this house, not even with the Secretary of State, with a number of entrepreneurs who have turned to court at the end of counsel. After all, the financial knife is put at their throats. It concerns 400, 500 or even hundreds of companies that will join in that trial. These are not people who want to do so, but people who have major problems with the survival of their business, or at least with the profitability of their business. I didn't become a people's representative to not hear those people and not stand up for them here. It is a pity that it seems that it has become only part of a chess game of higher powers and Brussels. The PVV Group does not participate in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u177	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers he has given. They were clear. There is still one question that has not been answered, namely whether there can be some more demands on the stoppers as far as the Secretary of State is concerned. It's about people who get a government grant to stop and what they're gonna do with their stables. Can those stables stay? Can they fill it with other animals? If that is the case, what effect does that have on phosphate production? In addition, the Secretary of State said that the use of the Phosphor Bolus in very exceptional cases sometimes occurs in cows with a rare deviation. Of course, that is not the case. Any cow that has calved can have something to do with such a phosphorus deficiency. And cows calve very often, because if they don't calf, they don't give milk. Lactation and getting calves are one-on-one connected. If you look at agricultural websites, you can see that the Phosphor Bolus is one of the most commonly offered pills. Also in agricultural forums it is often told that if a low phosphate diet causes problems for your cows, that is not a problem, because you simply order prescription-free Phosphor Bolussen and the problem is solved. In this sense, it is indeed a back door for farmers who give a low phosphate diet, with all the animal welfare problems that this entails, and then try to solve it with medication. It seems that the reductions in phosphate content in the feed may be correct, but they can be bypassed through the stable. Can the Secretary of State indicate the extent of the problem? He has the impression that the problem is not that big, but I would like to ask whether that is being done or whether further research is being carried out. I also talked about the fact that, despite the reduction in the number of cows, some farmers continue to produce the same amount of milk or even more milk and thus raise phosphate production per cow and what effect that has on phosphate production. On paper, phosphate production could very well decrease if you continue to look at livestock units, but in the stable that production could increase. I've asked if there's any insight into the extent of this effect and, if there isn't, if there can be. The Secretary of State has said a number of times that it seems a little like the questions he receives relate to a Secretary of State at the beginning of his term, but that he is at the end of his term, that he is outgoing. I understand that, but a lot of things we are discussing today have a strong going group idea. That makes sense, too. The Secretary of State also brought the appeal before the court when he was already expelled. Then he's not gonna tell his successor to do that either. It depends on deadlines. The regulation on the derogation is not being pushed forward either. It also depends on time limits. It sometimes seems that things like grazing and the maximum milk production of a cow that is getting increased, while increasing phosphate production, would not be subject to deadlines and that you can extend it endlessly in front of you. I have drafted a motion that does not call for legislation, but rather a plan of action to see how far you can link phosphate reduction to grazing and maximum milk production. This maximum milk production therefore has an impact mainly on the maximum phosphate production. I'm actually asking for an investigation. I do not think that the outgoing Secretary of State should exercise any restraint in this regard. The parties who have sat at each other's tables have indicated that they will not support any motions for the time being that will cost money and not deal with controversial issues for the time being. There is no longer any negotiation, it is not a controversial issue and it does not cost money. In that sense, it should not be a problem for the Secretary of State to carry out the motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Meijer, Mr Vos and Mr Overbeek proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the method of growth of Dutch dairy farming has led to major problems in the fields of phosphate, nitrogen and milk surpluses;]] [[Whereas dairy farming should be rebalanced with the market, nature, the environment, animal welfare and its environment;]] [[Whereas self-regulation has not produced this desired result in recent years;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a plan of action which includes, in addition to phosphate reduction, grazing and maximum milk production per cow as legally established principles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34295-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u178	Mr. Chairman. How does Mr Koffeman intend to maintain that maximum production per cow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u179	That is a good question, because it is very badly maintained in livestock farming. There are billions of violations, with all kinds of acts that are legally prohibited, but which still take place. In this sense, I fully agree with Mr Schaap that more and better enforcement is needed. This is mainly about a better capacity of the NVWA. If you know how many livestock units a farmer has and if you think you can maintain on the amount of phosphate that is produced there, you can also very well calculate the average of milk production per cow, I would think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u180	This is an incredible detour. I asked: how do you intend to maintain? So there is an extremely vague answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u181	I'd like to repeat it again...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u182	Mr Koffeman, let Mr Schaap speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u183	Mr Koffeman talks about increasing capacity at NVWA, but I asked him how he would technically maintain that the maximum production per cow is thus maintained for each cow if you have 100 cows.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u184	It might be good to clarify that point. That doesn't have to be per cow for me, but per 100 cows. If you have 100 cows, you can produce a maximum amount of milk with your 100 cows. That one cow gives a liter more and the other one a liter less, we won't lie awake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u185	Then "per cow" is already a wrong expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u186	Well, I don't think so. I think it's perfectly clear when you read "per cow" as "average per cow."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u187	My question isn't how you're gonna maintain it, but how you're gonna organize it. The Party for Animals is against genetic modification and all the other things that you might be able to organize with frills. How are you going to organise that, also taking into account animal welfare? You can't just dry a cow à la minute or tie off an udder or anything else. That simply cannot be done, so it seems to me to be extremely complicated, regardless of whether all this could be legally anchored.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u188	Mr Atsma, like all those who have been introduced a little bit into dairy farming, knows that the milking of cows has been increased in a huge way and that this proposal is intended to limit this. He talked about tying up an udder, but he also knows that there is teat necrosis, teats that spontaneously lose weight, because the cows are milked so massively, literally. In that sense, I'd think you'd have to limit yourself to the ever-increasing milk supply. This one doesn't come spontaneously from the cow. If you milk a cow three times a day and try to raise that milk gift twice a day, then this measure is not thwarted by the nature of the cow, but by the nature of the farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u189	Mr Atsma, I would like to end this discussion because there is currently no way out. It is in Mr Koffeman's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u190	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his explanations. He's worked out a lot of practical things, and that's useful. I have two more things I would like to talk about, and one later. The first point concerns the question raised several times by Mr Dercksen, whether the question of proportionality will not be a very negative one. This question has been raised a number of times by the Secretary of State with the remark that we are now talking about legislation and that these judgments are about the regime and therefore do not apply now. In my opinion, it cannot be denied that what is now before the courts has also moved towards the situation of the legislation that is foreseen for next year. The question of proportionality, based on the first protocol of the ECHR, is just as good? That is why we are now setting up this committee, which has to look at what other bottlenecks there are that have the right to be dealt with. In my opinion, Mr Schaap has rightly pointed out that if that committee is going to work, which, on the one hand, has to weigh up the proportionality and, on the other hand, the cost of any disproportion, then that creates a lot of legal risks. I think so, too. Proportionality is a legal matter arising from the ECHR. However, if you allow the decision to depend on a completely different element, you are failing to do what the legislation, in this case the ECHR, requires. In other words, we have to wait and see what happens this year in order to maintain the derogation, but for next year the risks are essentially the same. At the end of this year, the European Commission will have to consider what happened this year and will have to look at the risks that will follow next year in the same way. It seems to me that we are overly optimistic when we no longer see any risk. I'm sure there are risks. The second central point for me is that we have a system with a lot of regulation. It is not getting any better with this regulation, which is intended to solve the acute problem of the derogation. In fact, we should get rid of that complicated regulation. I hereby call on you to please look at a simple system, a longer-term system. The point is to change the policy so that we have clarity about where we want to go in the long term. We don't have that right now. That's not in what needs to be decided now. The Secretary of State says the next cabinet should do this. Of course he's right about that. That is no longer the job of this cabinet. But at the moment, it is our job to consider whether the measures we are taking now can act as a barrier to the decision-making of a subsequent cabinet. In my opinion, that might be the case. What we are now fixing next year's phosphate duties is essentially freezing until 2023. This is a period that goes beyond the term of office of the next cabinet. We'll freeze them. Phosphate rights remain available in principle throughout the period. Even the 10% withheld in the event of changes is in principle re-issued. The number of cows and manure production remain the same throughout the period until 2023. If we lay this down legally, there's not much more we can do about it. This does indeed hinder the choice for the next cabinet to move on to a different approach. As far as I am concerned, there should be much more emphasis on groundboundness. Ground-boundness, by definition, means a reduction in the number of cows, manure production and phosphate production. That's inevitable. I think we're locking that up. Finally, I would like to make a small comment on the problem of rare breeds. Mrs Vos has dealt with this in detail. I would like to join in that. I also think that this has not yet been resolved and that it would be good if it were to be completely resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u191	Thank you very much, Mr Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u192	Mr. Chairman. My group would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. It was a clear debate in the sense that the nature and scope of the measures have become clear to us. This is, of course, an important and profound moment for the sector. I imagine it has not been the last debate we have on this subject for this Chamber. I would like to mention a few points. I'm going to come to the troublemaker's arrangement for a very short time. It's clear what's going to happen. The formal mandate for the committee is clear. It is good to hear that the Secretary of State really wants to give it some weight and also give it room for the committee. The committee will come up with an opinion that will be very important. The question is how free that committee will be, in view of the Secretary of State's original position to keep this problem regulation as limited as possible. If necessary, we must be able to act generously. The other point is that I have argued here for the future of the sector and for young farmers. We are going to have a system in which the milk quota is no longer there, but is likely to be replaced by expensive phosphate rights. That is good news for stoppers, but bad news for young farmers, especially for starters who stand on their own feet and are not in a partnership. The answer given by the Secretary of State showed to me that he has an eye for this and that he also wants to use instruments for it. In this context, the phosphate bank has also been mentioned. That has already been discussed and I share what Mr Verheijen said about this. I understand that the phosphate bank is really meant to steer and transmit good stimuli, with a view to soil-boundness and grazing. The Secretary of State, as I have noted, said himself that it also serves to support young farmers. I'm happy about that, and I'd like to think it's important if that happens. At the same time, very different images have been sketched around this phosphate bank. What exactly does it get stuck in? How's that going? Who's gonna judge that later? Who's making arrangements around that phosphate bank? One question I also have here is whether the importance of young start-ups, the future of the sector, also has a place in the discussions on the Sixth Nitrates Directive and so on. I would like to conclude my contribution with the wish that the Secretary of State will quickly clarify the sector. The sooner, the better. People are really waiting for that. Clarity is very important, as the uncertainty is very high at the moment. Clear communication with dairy farmers is very important. I'd like to stress that to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Kuiper. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs for his answer in second term, and I ask him if he thinks it is possible to finish his reply by 11.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u194	I think that's very possible if that clock goes well. Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Members of your Chamber for all the questions raised during this period, but also for the reflections on the debate. Let me begin with Mr Kuiper's last words. It is also very important for dairy farming that this debate should give us some more clarity, so that we in dairy farming know where we are going from next year on. Mr Atsma asked about the phosphate bank. Mr Schaap did the same. They asked if that bank couldn't be used to compensate generically. No, you can't. That's not what the phosphate bank's for. The bill before the Chamber doesn't give room for that either. The rights built up by skimming should be used for other purposes, namely to promote land-basedness, to support young farmers and for purposes that go beyond European standards. This has to be filled in at AMvB, in response to Mr Kuiper's question. It needs to work out exactly how to distribute these rights. Mr Verheijen spoke on the same point. He stressed the importance of this, because it is an important tool to contribute to the soil-based nature of dairy farming. He was, of course, right: I got a little out of it by saying that this Chamber is asking a lot of questions about a vision for the future, but I wonder if that's up to this cabinet. If you ask me, the future of Dutch livestock farming, and certainly the future of dairy farming, is in a future that does not involve further intensification, but is based on intensification where intensification has gone too far. I am convinced that this cabinet has contributed to this. I think that Dutch dairy farming is strong when it comes to the model on which it is built. This consists of family farms of a clear size, where the animals walk outside in the meadow and are partly responsible for the fact that our landscape is green. Thanks to underlying technology and knowledge, we can achieve a competitive level of production in a way that contributes to the strong position of our dairy industry worldwide. I am convinced that this strong position is also promoted by a relatively extensive production model. I think it serves a social interest but also an economic interest if it continues to do so. Mr Atsma asked about my role in the trials. As I said, I'm being advised by the Trouble Commission. Mr Schalk also asked about this; he asked about the passages in the letter. In my view, even if I reread them, they are really more clear than Mr Schalk imagines. The committee should advise on how to extend the emergency provision and which groups of dairy farmers could be eligible for it. The committee must lay down criteria for this. It must indicate in which dairy farmers who meet those criteria can be compensated. The committee was asked to give an indication of the overall extent of the enlargement and the consequences for the level of generic skimming for all dairy farmers. That has to be translated into an AMvB, and that is, of course, my responsibility. I have already said that I am following the committee's advice in principle. I have to make a final political assessment of the consequences that this has for the other dairy farmers, but I assume that the committee will provide sufficient tools to do this properly. If the bottleneck scheme is in place, individual companies may apply to become eligible after the law enters into force. Those applications should be assessed individually. RVO does that, but of course RVO does that under my responsibility or, probably, under the responsibility of my successor. Mr Atsma asked about my role in the process; these are the two moments that are clearly my responsibility. Mr Atsma also asked for clarification on the tax depreciation of phosphate rights. I will inform the Chamber how I can give effect to the wish of the House of Representatives and of course that of Mr Atsma. I'm gonna need some time to do that. I am unable to do so before this Chamber votes on this, but I have already said that it is my intention to make that wish possible by the Chamber. Mr Atsma also asked for clarity on feed manure contracts. It's gonna take a little longer. That clarity is certainly not in time for the votes either. This was discussed extensively in the House of Representatives. It is a complicated question which requires the necessary research into the feasibility of the wish expressed in the House of Representatives. Mr Schnabel said that there is a certain tension between individual farms that may benefit from the derogation and produce manure and that these farms are jointly bound by a production ceiling. That's right. He experienced it as a sort of catch 22 that you can't actually say no to this bill. Of course, I share that with him. He said that this represents a major risk to dairy farming, but saying yes does not guarantee that that risk is gone. That is true, but it is likely that the risk will be dealt with a lot less. I hope that'll help him weigh it up. Mr Schalk gave some well-intentioned opinions on how to conduct discussions with the European Commission. The European Commission is generally very strict towards several Member States on compliance with the Nitrates Directive. The fact that the Netherlands has had the opportunity to fix the offence has been discussed in detail with the European Commission, because that is obviously not a matter of course. The Netherlands already violates the conditions for the derogation for the third year. Perhaps it is all a little more complicated than Mr Schalk suggested. He asked whether the negotiations on the action programme could be seen separately from the derogation. It can't be. Both must be negotiated with the European Commission. The other Member States will ultimately decide on the derogation in the Nitrates Committee. Agreement on the action programme is a prerequisite for obtaining a derogation. I'm sure that's in the Nitrates Directive. Although they are two distinct routes, they are not separate from each other. Mr Schaap said that he was more positive, which, of course, pleases me. He said, "Keep the sector going, it's got to be good together." That is certainly the case. A derogation has a social interest, but it is clearly also an economic interest for a very large part of dairy farming. Not the government, but dairy farming produces too much phosphate. It is therefore the responsibility of dairy farming to reduce phosphate production. Because of the social importance, I am prepared to do so together. We do so and will have to continue to do so together to ensure that we are successful. Mrs Vos said that if any action had been taken before, all this might not have been necessary. That is true, but there is a well-known proverb in the agricultural sector about things you do afterwards. That is an important wisdom in this case. Looking back, of course, you say: if only there were intervention when it became clear that the milk quota would expire. However, the assessments made at the time by both scientists and sector organisations were clearly different. That's what the cabinet was about at the time. She made a detailed plea on the biological sector. She said what I'm doing is basically system thinking. That was a bit of a negative qualification. It strikes me that Mrs Vos is merely reasoning on the basis of the interests of organic companies. She says that derogation is actually only an individual interest for a company and that if you do not use it, you do not have to contribute when there is a problem with it. In my first term, I indicated that the derogation is also explicitly linked to social interests, wider than just a greater economic interest than the economic interests of individual companies. It is also about keeping the Dutch landscape green. Thanks to the derogation and the conditions attached to it, there is and remains so much grass in the Netherlands and the Dutch landscape remains as it is. There is an environmental interest linked to the derogation, because much less fertilizer is used and less animal manure needs to be transported abroad. There are great social interests and for the public interest, even if they do not have an economic advantage of themselves, you can expect them to contribute to this. In this case, it is not a question of whether you are organic or not. All the companies that have grown and certainly the companies that have grown after 2 July 2015 have contributed to this, are partly responsible for exceeding the phosphate production ceiling and that thereby the social interest served by the derogation has also been jeopardised. That means that we are now telling all those growers that they will have to shrink again this year to make sure that we eliminate that problem. The growers are responsible. They have put the social interest at risk. This means that it is justified to ask all growers, biologically or not and soil-bound or not, to reduce again, because of that social interest. I think that is greater than just the question of whether you have a self-interest as a biological company because you use the derogation or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u195	Let me be clear: I think it is very important that we have a derogation. I also see the social importance of this. However, this particular group of companies is not about their own interests either. I think it is very important that we grow in the Netherlands towards a sector that produces sustainably. The biological sector is a precursor to this. I think it is sad and also unwise that we should also let this sector, which is just getting better, bleed and actually take a step back. I also think that this is a social issue. At the moment, we are just nipping a good development in the bud, and I think that is unwise. These are just companies that are not so much about their own interests, but who have been taking responsibility for years for those important social interests that the Secretary of State also mentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u196	I can share that appreciation of the biological sector. In fact, the issue we are discussing today, namely manure production and manure use, applies to all land-based farms in fact to their circular operation. They can use all the manure they produce on their own land. For this reason, the land-based companies are all spared from the generic discount. This applies to all land-based companies, because they all operate circularly. You say you want some kind of speciality for organic farms. All organic holdings that are land-based........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ At the same time, I have already explained this a few times, and organic farms are also affected by the fact that they produce manure. This therefore counts in the total manure production. If these companies have started to grow after 2 July 2015, they have knowingly contributed to increasing that problem. Then I do not think it is unfair to say to these companies, not to all the organic companies, but to those that have chosen to grow after 2 July: then you have to shrink again, because you yourself have made the problem bigger and then you have to help to reduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u197	One small interruption, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u198	I would point out to the Secretary of State that it makes a difference whether a company is ground-bound on the basis of 250 kilograms added to the soil or whether it is ground-bound on the basis of 170 kilograms. In that sense, therefore, I think that he should really make a distinction and that it is also justified to make that distinction. I would also like to tell him that this particular organic sector has its own manure market. It is planted on arable land and there is still a shortage of manure there. So I really think that the situations are absolutely different, not comparable, and that they are also legally delimited in such a way that the Secretary of State does not jeopardise the whole derogation if he makes an exception for this small group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u199	I fear that we will not end up approaching each other on this point, because my reasoning, which Mrs Vos did not agree with, really sees the biological companies who willingly chose to grow even further after 2 July 2015. Mrs Meijer raised a number of points, namely organic dairy farmers, but also the free marketability of phosphate rights. She has also tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject, but I shall comment on the motions separately in a moment. They mentioned points which, of course, were all very important in the development of this phosphates system. This also applies to the whole question of opting for free marketability or for completely non-negotiable and regulate everything through a public phosphate bank. That has, of course, been a very explicit consideration. It has also been the subject of the various debates that have been held in the House of Representatives. Because of the disadvantages associated with the non-tradeability of rights, both in terms of feasibility and the great limitations created for individual companies, I have decided that it would be my preference to make the rights negotiable. The House of Representatives finally followed that. Mrs Meijer said that she was considering perhaps voting against. I would, of course, be very disappointed, also because I have of course had the same kind of debate with the Socialist Party spokesmen in the House of Representatives. They finally considered that the introduction of phosphate rights could be supported in this way. They were also convinced by the arguments that the disadvantages of non-tradeability, although I fully understand the arguments for this, were ultimately heavier than the benefits. I therefore hope that she will take into account the arguments put forward by my fellow Members on the other side. Mr Verheijen discussed the future vision of dairy farming. I have already said a few things about this. Mr Dercksen had a number of questions. He kept wondering what's going on with the reduction scheme. Was that a condition for the legislation for 2018? What if, on appeal, the exclusion of the reduction scheme is, in some cases, re-enforced by the court? What will Brussels do? The European Commission is assessing us on the agreement we have with the European Commission, namely whether we are going to be below the agreed ceiling again, i.e. whether we are achieving the reduction target. It is very important that we do so, that we all, together, put our hands on it, government and industry, and that we contribute to it. As I said, given what we have achieved so far, I have absolute confidence that it will succeed. Mr Dercksen asked how I would prevent the sector from being locked up. I don't recognize that image. The sector is neither locked nor closed with this legislation. He also asked: how is it possible that in the west of the Netherlands and in Friesland there are the biggest problems with phosphate in surface water, whereas those are not the areas with most animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u200	I would just like to touch on the previous issue. I told you the sector would be locked up. I was referring in particular to that part of the sector which is about to suffer from these very high and expensive rights: the farms with non-high-productive cows. Those companies are going to have a problem, because they can't buy the rights anymore. As far as I am concerned, that part of the sector is locked up. We have heard this from many quarters in the sector itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u201	Cows that are less productive also generally have lower phosphate excretion. It therefore requires fewer phosphate rights per cow than for highly productive animals. The phosphate rights system is also a little smarter in that respect, and a little better in that respect than an ordinary animal rights system, because it takes account of the differences between animals. If you have a purely animal rights system where you only control the number of animals, you cannot take those differences into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u202	Mr Dercksen, briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u203	But if those animals are less productive, you simply have less money to buy rights if you would like to grow in a sector that has great sympathy in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u204	So you also need less money, because you also need fewer rights to grow. That is why I said that this is taken into account in the phosphate rights system. Mr Dercksen also asked why there are more phosphates in surface water in the western part of the Netherlands and in Friesland, whereas those are not the areas with most animals. Ultimately, it is not a question of how many animals there are in an area, but of where the manure is actually used on land. These are not always, often not, the areas where the animals themselves are. The manure is also transported to other places in the country. Furthermore, natural conditions, such as the presence of many surface waters, also play a role in such values. I refer to the relationship sometimes suggested by some researchers or which I see going around on social media through all kinds of pictures with colors that should show that the problems really do not have anything to do with each other. Of course, they have to do with each other, but there is an attempt to create another image that does not correspond to reality. Mr Koffeman asked a few questions about the stoppers. He asked if we couldn't be a little stricter. He also mentioned the Phosphor Bolus. He asked: can't you actually get around the phosphate reduction rules for this year? He also talked about increasing milk production. It was all questions that had to do with the situation in which we would regard what we are doing this year, namely trying to reduce phosphate production in one year, as a policy that we want to pursue for years. Then the reason would be to worry about possible avoidability. In this case, the objective is very clear: we need to achieve a reduction this year. Is there a smart guy who's figured out that he can use the stopper scheme and start over next year? Maybe there's someone like that. I think that most of the dairy farmers who have applied for the stopper scheme will actually stop. Is it possible that a Phosphor Bolus is sometimes administered and that part of the cows gets more phosphorus? I'm sure that's what's gonna happen. However, the question is whether this kind of thing happens on such a large scale this year that it really puts pressure on that phosphate reduction. I didn't get any signals about that in any way. So I assume that if we stay on course, we will actually achieve the phosphate reduction and that this kind of trick will not ultimately undermine it. I think I have answered Mr Koffeman's questions with this too. Mr Ten Hoeve said: are we not now setting up a number of choices for a future cabinet? I don't think so. There are a number of choices about how to regulate the dairy sector with phosphate rights in the future, but there are enough degrees of freedom for a future cabinet to take further steps in the desired direction. Among others, Mrs Vos asked a question about rare pets. I support the Foundation Rare Pet Breeds and have made arrangements to further support her, if necessary in order to carry out her work in a good way. I have already answered Mr Kuiper's question about the phosphate bank. I still have the reaction to both motions. First of all, I come to the Vos c.s motion. under letter J on organic dairy farms. We have discussed this point in substance, so it will not surprise Mrs Vos that I do not recommend the adoption of that motion. Secondly, I come to the motion for a resolution - Meijer c.s. under letter K on the public phosphate bank. I have already said that this point has been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives, including with the sector organisations. I have outlined the consequences of this. I also said that in fact it means that you are depriving entrepreneurs of the opportunity to bring the amount of rights they have in line with the production they are aiming for or which they need to recoup their investments. You're turning dairy farming into a fully state-controlled sector. I find that disproportionate. Entrepreneurs must be able to continue to undertake. In addition, it raises many complex implementation questions. In the end, we chose to work with a phosphate bank but not to run everything through the phosphate bank and to slowly but surely increase the phosphate bank's interest in supporting societal goals. I think we have managed to achieve the best of both worlds with that solution. Since this option has been explored in detail, I do not think it makes any sense to work out this option once again and to submit it to the Chambers for assessment. So I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. This brings me to the end of my second-term response. I would like to thank you all for the detailed debate. Oh, no, I hear there's another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u205	Three motions have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u206	Right, Mr. Chairman. I've got the Koffeman motion c.s. under letter L. It calls for a plan to be drawn up that includes, in addition to phosphate reduction, grazing and maximum milk production per cow as legally established principles. I must also advise against that motion. The cabinet is working hard on the meadow. I have agreed with the House of Representatives to investigate all kinds of different options to further stimulate grazing or enforce legislation. That trajectory's running. If we lay down the maximum milk production per cow legally, we will go a long way, including in terms of regulation. I also see all kinds of problems in implementation and enforcement. I don't see how the government places enforcers next to every cow to keep measuring how much milk is being produced. I'm deceiving that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u207	It should be clear that I am not aiming for a maintainer per cow at all. It is also a bit of a way to ridicule the setting of a ceiling on milk production. The Secretary of State has just said that the holsteiners are low-productive and therefore produce little phosphate. The mirror image of that story is of course that highly productive cows produce more phosphate. So if you set a phosphate ceiling, you can also set a milk ceiling per cow. Mr Atsma and Mr Schaap are trying to imagine the farmer as some kind of midwife who has to rid the cow of its milk. This is not the case in practice, because the farmer drives milk production to an unnaturally high level. The only thing that is asked in the motion is to examine whether you can apply a ceiling. If you can do that with phosphate, you can do that very well with milk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u208	That the farmer tries to get the cow to produce a lot of milk is fine as long as the farmer does so in a way where he takes very good care of his cows and where animal welfare is not at stake. That's something the government should be watching. It must monitor not the exact quantity of litres but animal welfare on farms and development in the sector. I have just said that I myself am critical of the development of increasing productivity and efficiency. This applies not only to dairy farming but also to the various branches of livestock farming. I think that in livestock farming you should assume that you are working with nature, and not that you are adapting nature to some kind of technical means of production that man must serve. That is a conviction about how this sector should work. I also think it is up to the government to ensure, in general terms, that developments do not go the wrong way. But I think I share that conviction with many people working in agriculture itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u209	I totally agree with the Secretary of State; that's what it's supposed to be. It turns out, however, that the practice is quite different from that because milk production is hunted down to a level where cows literally burn up within three or four years. The Dutch government has a maximum speed for cars. You can also say that it is also in the interests of motorists themselves not to drive too fast, because speeding does not help their well-being. That's true, but we're still setting a limit to speed. There is also a limit due to the phosphate ceiling. And so you can also set a limit on milk production per cow. I don't think that's unreasonable. If the sector is indeed acting as self-regulatory as the Secretary of State now assumes, then everyone remains naturally below that ceiling. I didn't mention a level of that ceiling at all. I just asked if you could use a ceiling. That seems reasonable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u210	I think that, in practice, would actually amount to a reintroduction of the milk quota, because I do not see how you could arrange this in a very different way. That milk quota has been abolished. We are actually talking today about the introduction of an alternative regulatory system, namely the regulation of phosphate production. That choice was made by the cabinet, with the broad agreement of the House of Representatives. I think it would be wise to continue along this path and continue to monitor developments. We may have to adjust if this is necessary in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u211	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-eerstekamer-9.u212	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the legislative proposal 34295, on additional rules for the responsible growth of dairy farming, i.e. the Law on land-based growth dairy farming? I see that there is a vote in favour of this. This bill will be voted on next Tuesday. Does one of the Members wish to vote on legislative proposal 34532 on the amendment of the Fertilisers Act in connection with the introduction of a system of phosphate rights? I see that there is also a request for a vote. The two legislative proposals and the motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
