ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. You have often been present at oral Question Time lately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Of course, we are all shocked by the horrible news about the fire at the Grenfell Tower in London. The minister is now assuming 79 deaths. It's an unprecedented tragedy. People got stuck and couldn't get anywhere. It's a terrible end for them. Once you've seen the horrible images, you'll never forget them. The question that arises in this tragedy is: could it have been prevented? Are the rules okay? People are worried, even here in the Netherlands. One wonders how this could have happened and whether such a thing can happen in the Netherlands. An important point that emerged was the flammability of the façade and materials and the use of materials in high-rise construction. So we want to know what's going on with the buildings in the Netherlands. Can the Minister send a letter to the Chamber explaining what happened in London and a translation into the Dutch situation? A number of questions are important to us. What are the rules in the Netherlands when it comes to the safety of facades? What rules are there when it comes to the safety of insulation material? What rules are there when it comes to high-rise construction? We read in the media that there are no national additional safety rules for buildings above 70 metres. Is that right? Is it ensured during construction that the design is built, including safety measures? Are the evidence of compliance with fire and safety requirements included in the building file, for example by means of photographs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Eijs refers to the terrible fire in London, whose images are engraved on all of us. First of all, it asks the government for a letter explaining what happened in London. Of course, I also immediately asked how this could have happened and the follow-up question whether there are lessons to be learned from this for the Netherlands. I also read and hear all kinds of more or less well-founded reflections about what exactly caused this and how this relates to the situation in the Netherlands. I think it is only to await the investigation that is being conducted in England, because I also want to know exactly what went wrong, what the role of the supervisor and the owner has been. Were the building regulations good, but weren't they applied? Or weren't the building regulations good enough? If I may take the request for a letter in such a way that at the time when the investigation is available, I will let the Chamber know. I will replace my colleague Mr Plasterk, so in this case the cabinet, which lesson we take from that for the Dutch situation, I am happy to do so. It seems premature to send such a letter now, on the basis of newspaper reports, as you are speculating in part. Mrs Van Eijs asks about the rules as we know them now. These are laid down in the Building Decision, which is always submitted to the Chamber in the form of a General Measure of Management. On the basis of the English research I have just referred to, I think it is logical that we should look again critically at whether the legislation in the Netherlands may require adaptation. Mrs Van Eijs also asks about the practice of monitoring construction. As the Chamber knows, an amendment to the supervisory legislation has recently been submitted and adopted to the Chamber. This one is now in front of the First Chamber. The General Measure of the Board is now in front of the House of Representatives. The reason for this change is the observation that in the Netherlands there are a lot of rules for supervision, which are concentrated on building and housing supervision at municipal level, but which was actually established years ago that some municipalities are doing well in practice, while in many too many places builders said that the municipality never came to look and that a paper reality had arisen in that sense. There has been an attempt to tackle this by means of stricter agreements with municipalities. At the time that did not work properly, it has been concluded a number of years ago that we need to set this up differently. In the law which the Chamber has recently dealt with and approved, it has been chosen to give the government a central, checking role through an admission organisation and to step away from the paper review, which is too often mentioned, but to oblige the builder to really keep a good record, for example with photographs, to which Mrs Van Eijs also asks, so that a quality assurance officer can approve or not on that basis. So the practice of supervision is now under way, an improvement is being made and I would like to draw the lessons from London on the basis of the English research.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u4	The Minister states that he would like to learn lessons for the Netherlands from what happened, but only after the investigation. Of course, questions already exist among many people and many news has already been published in the newspaper. Maybe there's some ghost stories in there, too. Is it not a good idea to at least clarify the requirements that are currently being applied in the Netherlands, for example for high-rise buildings? I read all kinds of stories about that. This has apparently been confused. So we ask the Minister to find a way to give us more clarity and to reassure us on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u5	The rules are public, because they are in the Building Decree. They are as open to Mrs Van Eijs as they are to me. So if she, or anyone else in this Chamber, has any further questions, I'd like to be open to them, but it doesn't make much sense if I send the Building Decision to the Chamber again, because that's also just to be found on the Internet. Again, I'm really curious about the findings of the London study, but if you want to be able to take targeted measures if you need to, you need to know exactly what went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u6	I am happy to hear the Minister say that the central control is being carried out by the government, but the supervision of security and security regulations is and still remains a final responsibility of the government. That is why I am curious about the Minister's reaction to the statements made by Mr Van Vollenhoven, who says that the government would have given way to far too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u7	I already indicated that I think you should have the investigation into the England disaster in order to make informed statements. When it comes to the issue of 'giving out', I understand, on the basis of newspaper reports, but again, that is a first impression that the municipal government is actually the owner of the building in England in which that terrible fire took place, so that's not what it was all about. The question is, of course, what role this owner has played and what role supervisors have played. Were the rules good but were they not properly applied, or were the rules not good either? I think that is very important questions, but because they are so essential, I think it is very important to have that research in my hands before we draw any consequences for Dutch practice. But really, if any consequences have to be drawn from that, we will, of course, do so. That's important enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u8	Security is a public interest. Many governments have always relied on self-regulation. That has also gone wrong a few times in the Netherlands. The SP has made an initiative paper, so that we can discuss this problem with each other in the Lower House. But what can we learn from England now? Because that is where the supervision of construction quality has been privatised. Now the cabinet has also submitted a law here, which has also been passed by the Lower House. By the way, D66 also voted for it. What can we learn from the experience in England and what does that mean for the privatisation of the supervision of the quality of construction in the Netherlands? I ask D66 to reconsider this in the First Chamber and I ask the Minister if this amendment needs to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr Van Raak is actually asking the same question as Mrs Van Eijs, but on a slightly different route. The image that has been privatized in the Netherlands is incorrect. For years, we have found that the way in which municipalities implement supervision varies enormously, but too often it is purely paper supervision. This has not been a reason for privatisation, which is why we need to set the criteria again at central level and monitor the institutions that actually supervise the construction site because the way things are going is simply not good enough. With regard to all further questions about England, I continue to answer that, given the enormous scale of the disaster there, the only sensible thing you can do is to look very closely at the lessons that can be drawn from it. Before that investigation gets there, it's really speculating, and we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u10	I see that Mr Gijs van Dijk has another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u11	Following on from the questions of the SP, I would like to ask the Minister the following. In this case it is also about Mr Van Vollenhoven's appeal, who has a lot of experience in monitoring security, which is of incredible importance for Dutch society. Mr Van Vollenhoven calls for the merger of supervision into a single inspection force, which means that there are many more safeguards to ensure this safety in the Netherlands. How does the Minister view such an appeal from Mr Van Vollenhoven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-2.u12	That is a very different question, but I am not immediately convinced that if you combine all the supervision, such as the supervision of aviation, the supervision of public health and the supervision of construction, it will immediately improve. In any case, it seems to me to be a long way from the subject that D66 started with, namely the question of fire safety, which is a logical question as a result of the events in London. Again, I would like to have that research, but I think it is a big leap to say'make sure that all supervision in the Netherlands is put together'. It's gonna be big, but if it's gonna get better, you're gonna have to see it.
