ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u1	I welcome the Minister of Economic Affairs. The speakers on the side of the Chamber each have a speaking time of five minutes. The first speaker is Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u2	When you read the Minister's letters, you read words like "progressing," "confidence," "security" and "recovering." But if you listen to the Groningen people, you hear words like "delay," you'll hear them in a year's time. You hear that the NAM was being postponed to provide good justifications for the gas extraction plans. You hear about postponing the treatment of damages, about postponing a reply from the Minister to the question of whether or not there should be a compensation fund. And you're hearing about postponing the new damage protocol. What about the Groningen? Do they have to live delayed lives? In the meantime, it is already so far that they are even delaying reporting of damage, or perhaps not reporting the damage at all. The only one who does keep going is the NAM. There they reported a billion profits over the last year. I have asked the Minister the following question earlier, and I shall now ask him again: what is needed to get the Dutch Government to take a real firm action? When does the Minister say enough is enough? When does he say: we are going to set up a compensation fund, the State is going to prefinance and then get the money back from the NAM? In this way, the citizens who suffer damage will in any case be compensated for that damage. As of April 1st, you won't be able to report any more damage. That's been going on for three months. The number of damages is increasing. When does the Minister intervene and say: I am following what came out of the local consultation in terms of damages protocol and I understand that the arbitrators receive enormous support in the region? There's confidence in these arbiters. The Minister must have heard that, too. When does he say: I will ensure that these arbitrators can continue their work, that there will be sufficient support for those arbitrators and that the damages protocol will also remain in line with Dutch law? The Minister writes in his letter: yes, there are also people with legal knowledge in one of the discussion groups. However, GroenLinks and other parties have said: if that protocol is there, check that it is really in line with Dutch law. We have said: let it be done by, for example, a President of the Court. This shouldn't happen somewhere in the many chat clubs. I have a legal education myself, but I can't check it either. Have that checked by someone who the Groningen people trust. If there's a new damage protocol in the future, we shouldn't have another discussion about it. So, first of all, we need a good damages protocol, and secondly, we need a compensation fund. I'd like to hear the Minister's comments. A third point. In previous debates, several Members of Parliament, including myself, asked the Minister what would happen if Shell and Exxon said at some point: we really don't want it anymore. What happens when they say: we're actually stopping, because the gas extraction comes under 20 billion cube, which is too low for us, and there's so much hassle in Groningen? When we asked, the Minister assured me that oil and gas companies were lining up to take over that concession in Groningen. At what point is the Minister prepared to hold exploratory talks with other gas companies? Do they not intend, for example, to go to court on a decision by the Minister? Are other gas companies planning, together with the Minister, to draw up a phasing-out plan for this gas extraction and also to ensure that gas consumption in the Netherlands is reduced? Do these companies intend to work with a damages protocol that is under Dutch law? In short, everything Shell and Exxon have been delivering for the last five years does not satisfy all sides. The Security Research Council also says that. When is the time to talk to another society? Can the Minister confirm here that Shell and Exxon do not want to win any more if gas extraction falls below 20 billion cubic metres? Or is that out of the question? I have very brief questions on two points. The one point is that I have heard from people from Groningen that they do not find their own home in the maps used by the KNMI for reinforcement purposes. Also parts of villages are simply not to be found. On the basis of that material, the strengthening operation is calculated. It can't be that people don't like it themselves. I ask the Minister to check that carefully and to recover quickly. My other concerns the huge fight with the Minister over two tons on the EZ budget. A motion was first adopted on this subject, which the Minister refused to implement. Subsequently, a majority of the House adopted an amendment for which the Minister did not want to make money available. I am going to try to get the Minister again today to at least make the gesture to make those two tonnes available to the Groningen people. Earlier, his argument was that he didn't want the state to be challenged. Now that the NAM itself is in its own pockets to sue against this minister, perhaps the time has come to say: I want to be right in front of Groningen and a small step in that direction, as the amendment describes, is to allow a number of trial processes to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u3	I have heard from the media that Mrs Van Tongeren wants to fill in the shareholdership of the NAM differently. I do not fully understand what the Green Left proposal means. I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u4	I'd like to explain that one more time. In my speech I tried to explain it briefly, but I wanted to raise as many points as possible in the small number of minutes. It's about the free market principle. There's a whole laundry list of criticisms. If a provider fails to deliver what has been agreed over and over again, does not provide the basis for the extraction plans, does not manage to handle the damage adequately, and does not manage to prevent future damage, then you should at some point consider whether another provider might be able to do better. We constantly hear rumors that Shell and Exxon are no longer in the mood for gas extraction in Groningen if the extraction is below 20 billion cubic metres. We all need to draw up a phasing-out plan. If Shell and Exxon don't want that, maybe at some point it's time to talk to another oil and gas company.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u5	That clarifies things. So you're arguing for some kind of license auction for gas extraction. One has a licence for gas extraction, but the government, if it wants to sell it, must know for sure how much gas is being extracted. I'm trying to understand a little bit about the proposal. I'm kind of interested in it, because I don't think the NAM is doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u6	It's gonna be a very complicated operation. It's not a Brexit yet, but it's an exit from Shell or Exxon, a Shexit or an Exxit. It is not easy to take all aspects into account and ensure that all damages are paid and handled in a decent manner. Otherwise, we would have imagined it a long time ago. But the Minister himself, in previous debates, had given an opening to it. He said he'd easily find someone else for that. Then we asked the Minister to come forward with a compensation fund right away. For if the NAM is going to be bankrupt or if there is not enough money in it, how is the damage paid? And what if the NAM says at some point, "We're quitting?" Then the Minister assured us here in the plenary that he could easily find another gas and oil operator for the Groningen field. I want to know from the Minister at what time that comes into view. Is the Minister prepared to at least make a plan B? Now it seems like we're at the mercy of Shell and Exxon, and it's always handy to have a plan B in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u7	Mr. Chairman. Last week I paid a working visit to Groningen with the committee for EZ. That was another job visit. In one sentence, gas extraction not only causes damage to houses but also, and above all, to people. The damage to people is no less serious than the damage to buildings. People in tears told us how they were sent over and over again with a brat in the reed, how they sit down with sometimes irreparable damaged homes and irreparable damaged confidence. Those are 100-year-old properties that were never anything with until the NAM showed up. In the meantime, it is no longer a question of betrayed trust, it is a question of deep, deep distrust: in relation to politics, in relation to the Centre for Safe Living and, above all, in relation to the NAM, but also to the Minister of EZ, who determines maximum gas extraction and wants to keep the interests of safety and security of supply in one hand. The Security Research Council has advised not to do so, but the Minister refuses to place conflicting interests at different ministries and he even refuses to carry out an approved motion to do so. In his letter of 30 June, the Minister writes that security interests are placed at a distance when security is invested in another ministry. I don't quite understand that explanation, so I hope the Minister can clarify that. Groningers are sober people, but they're really driven to despair. Research shows that people in the earthquake area have more psychosocial complaints, use more medication, are sick more often and sleep worse. The fear of a really heavy earthquake, the uncertainty about your home, the lengthy procedures, the knowledge that you can't sell your home without great loss; it damages people at the heart of their existence. Can we still live here? Is it safe? Is there a future for us and our children? Can we ever sell our house again? When's the next earthquake coming? Last week Groningen trembled again, this time figuratively. On June 28, many Groningers lost ground beneath their feet, when NAM announced that it would go to court against the Minister of EZ's decision to reduce gas extraction by 10%. How deep can you sink? The NAM doesn't do this laugh because of its safety. The word "safe" appears ten times in the press release of the NAM and the word "hypocrite" zero times, whereas that describes the NAM's attitude much better. Legally, the NAM can appeal, but in terms of ethics, decency and compassion it should really slow down. The NAM likes to play the murdered innocence by saying that the company only carries out what the minister of EZ makes possible. The Minister determines the level of extraction and the NAM removes the gas from the ground. Now the NAM drops her mask: not safety is the most important, but profit. There really needs to be a lot more to help Groningen and the Groningers. For example, there will be a good system to repair the damage. This can only be done if a fund is set up for all problems. That fund must be managed by an independent administration. The NAM can fill the fund and nothing else. The polluter pays, the causer of earthquakes pays, period. In addition, the gas extraction has to stop quickly. The 10% reduction of 24 billion is a first step, but it is not enough. Previous research has established a extraction level of up to 12 billion cubic metres to create safety for the Groningers. So there's still 40% more to be done. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, 12 billion cubic metres will be the maximum level of extraction for the short term. In any case, this is sufficient for the security of supply. Eventually, and the Minister will agree with me, we have to get rid of the gas completely. Let us start with legislation to ban gas connections in new buildings. So we should not only remove the gas connection obligation for new construction, but also ensure that gas-free new construction becomes the norm. Municipalities therefore ask, housing corporations ask, Groningen asks. I would like a response from the Minister, because I am considering a motion on this point. The most renewable energy is energy you don't use. Leave the gas in the ground in Groningen, generate renewable energy via sun and wind and make sure we use less energy. We have to help Groningen. We can do something about that now. We can start now. This minister has the opportunity. A subsequent cabinet does not have to start at zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u8	Mr. Chairman. Cracking the walls. A chimney that needs to be removed. Schools that need to be fully grown to meet the safety requirements of the future. Whole neighborhoods where people have to find shelter elsewhere for months while their home is being strengthened. This is the daily practice in Groningen. I imagine sometimes it makes you despondent as a resident. Last weekend I spoke to a family member who has lived in Harkstede for over 40 years. He too has suffered damage. It's been resolved satisfactorily. But now there's been damage again. He doubts whether he wants to go through the bureaucratic mill again to get it repaired. I understand that very well. Therefore, it is important to arrange the damage handling and repairs as quickly as possible and as well as possible. It's too bad we can't talk about the damage protocol right now. I am expecting that the damage protocol will at least guarantee the principles of care, especially for the residents, and care in itself. Can the Minister confirm this? Much remains to be done. We're only at the beginning of the massive reinforcement operation. The province and the municipalities will therefore have to think about the future of Groningen just now. The hard decisions are on their plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u9	Mr Bosman spoke for a moment about the damage protocol that led to this debate. I wonder if the VVD agrees with the principles set out at regional level and with GroenLinks calls on the Minister to ensure that this is done. We can now give some direction as to how that damage protocol should look.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u10	What is particularly important to me is that we allow the residents, administrators and interest groups in Groningen to do their work and let the strength be there. That is where the negotiations must take place. That's where they have to come out together. I do not think that we should hang up there as the House of Representatives and say: listen, we do cherrypicking and see what comes out. I think it is important for the future of Groningen that directors, residents and interest groups make clear what they want and, in conjunction, come up with a good harm protocol. I must say quite frankly that I am reluctant to put pressure on this from the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u11	But what about content? Does the VVD support the principles as formulated jointly at regional level? Or doesn't the VVD support it? Which one is it? I assume that the VVD would also like to see the principles, as they have formulated them, in a damages protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u12	The negotiations take place between the people there: the residents, the directors and the National Coordinator Groningen. I've indicated what the VVD thinks. The VVD has as its starting points the care of residents and care. I think that is very much in line with what is important in Groningen. They will have to come to a good damage protocol together. The difficult decisions are on the board of the drivers in Groningen. I would like to mention a few questions that have been raised. Which houses should we break down and not rebuild in the context of the shrinkage? What facilities do they provide? Which town gets a community center? Where, for example, does a doctor's post come from? Where do the schools come from? I'll just mention a few tough decisions. How is Groningen going to get better economically? How will the business areas be filled out and which companies and industry will Groningen have where? In short, Groningen directors will have to come up with a coherent plan to make the future for Groningen economically better. The VVD has always said: money follows the solution. That is why the VVD is not directly in favour of a compensation fund. The money just has to be there, but it doesn't have to be with a fund right away. I do see a number of advantages, such as the availability of money without having to search. But a fund also has an administrative layer, an intermediate layer. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if he could put the pros and cons and conditions on paper at least in order to make it clear to the VVD what the advantages and disadvantages of a compensation fund are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u13	I have here an edition of the Nieuwsblad van het Noorden, a newspaper that hasn't existed for some time. On this front page is about the opening of Hoog Catharijne and the magazine brings the news that heavy shag may not be so good for you. It also brings other news, namely the call from Groningen for a compensation fund. It says literally: The Minister for Economic Affairs has now announced that he does not intend to form a fund from which damage can be paid. The Groningers have been asking for a fund since 1973. Mr Bosman has just said that he would very much like to listen to what the region is doing. Then why train again? Why stop that fund, which has been called for since 1973, when so many people want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u14	Then Mrs Beckerman didn't listen very carefully, because this has nothing to do with training. I have always said: money follows the solution. If there's gonna be requests, there's gonna have to be money for that. The question is whether a fund is the smartest and most convenient. That is why I asked the Minister to clarify the pros and cons. I'd like to wait and see. I am not concerned with where that money comes from: that money must come from. The money for the solutions must simply be put in place, but money will follow the solution. I have indicated that the important decisions lie with the directors of Groningen. They will have to come up with solutions and think seriously about how they want to implement them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u15	I hear the words "wait a minute." 'Wait and see' says colleague Bosman. Let's wait and see. Groningen is completely sick of waiting. People are really tired of waiting. People are freaking out about the idea that they're in an unsafe house. That compensation fund hasn't been waiting a while, no, it's been waiting since 1973. I was minus 10. Since then, Groningers have been waiting. Can we please stop waiting for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u16	Then you'll have to take care of it. Mrs. Beckerman is just going to introduce an administrative layer, so bureaucracy again. You're gonna have to look at how you're gonna fill that fund and where that money's gonna come from. And if it's empty, where does the money come from? You just have to get this right at once and make sure the money's there and it's there. That could be in a fund. But right now, we can get you some money. That's taken care of, too. So it's not like the VVD or the cabinet is training it. Absolutely not. Once again, money follows the solution. If there are any good solutions, we need to make sure the money gets there. Unfortunately, the SP is on the sidelines and does not participate actively. It's possible. The SP could have been sitting at the table and coming up with solutions, but did not choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u17	I've been in a lot of gas debates, but not much as a spokesperson. I've decided to get as much unity in the Chamber as possible to stand behind Groningen. I think that's what Groningen's most helped with. Does Mr Bosman of the VVD at least share the principles behind the idea of the fund, namely that people should not go to the NAM anymore, but that the government is responsible for the damage? If people have damage or need to strengthen preventively and if monuments need to be improved, they must be able to go to the government for their money. Next, the government reports this on the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u18	The principle is that there must be money. I just don't want to get into the situation that we're wondering, who's the government then? Is that the Center Safe Living? Is that the county? Is that the NCG? You're gonna have all these discussions about that. I want it clear. If we want to clarify things for Groningen, we also need to name everything properly. That is why I am reluctant to say: we are taking a short blow, so just through the province, the government or the Empire. Because you can get a lot of variables. I don't want to. I absolutely support what needs to be done for Groningen, because I think that is important. My colleague Nijboer knows that. But that must be done with all due care. The VVD doesn't promise something she can't live up to. With that care, I also look at the fund. Where would that go? What are the benefits of that? And what are perhaps the impossibilities? We need to talk about the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u19	One thing we can determine together is that the NAM is not the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u20	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u21	No, so it doesn't have to be there. The Centre for Safe Living is not in the hands of the government either. So it doesn't have to be there either. The position is actually Chamber-wide, the Security Research Council also points out that these are basic human rights: a safe house and compensation for the damage you have. The government has failed to guarantee these fundamental rights. The government is now shipping off the citizens, those people, with lengthy procedures against a private company that hires lawyers and expensive people to thwart the citizens. We need to get rid of that. The government has to take responsibility. That can be done in the form of a fund. The PvdA is for that, but it can be different. By government, I mean the government, because the province and the municipalities really can't repair all that damage; we don't have to fool each other. Does Mr Bosman support this principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u22	The principle consists of the two principles that I have set out. The first is carelessness. The second is to ensure that people are treated in the most appropriate way. That's the point. I am very reluctant to say: let's settle this through a certain government. Then who's the government? Mr Nijboer has already mentioned a few examples. I find that difficult. I think the starting point is that the damage has to be paid. I fully support that, but I do have some questions about that fund. I do not rule it out right away, but I did ask the Minister to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u23	There's no such thing as a little right; we just have to do it right and not in a little bit right, because what's right and what's a little right? We shouldn't start with that. I am glad that Mr Bosman will be back on his feet in the new government and that he was talking about care. We're talking about the damage to the buildings. It is huge, but the damage to people is much worse, as colleagues have already mentioned. What people only asked for in all my work visits, that is recognition, help and assistance from the government, so that it is all handled properly. The same goes for the monuments. I walked through the open-air museum Groningen. The small villages around Groningen are one large outdoor museum. My question is whether it also belongs to Mr Bosman's care that the monumental buildings do not get plastic chimneys from our government, but really if old Dutch monumental buildings are preserved and not with plastic chimneys.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u24	Yes, my good colleague Arno Rutte, also VVD member, lives in Groningen and is very concerned with the cultural heritage in Groningen. If we're out there, I think it's fantastic to see it. That's absolutely something we all have to guarantee. We must ensure that Groningen has a future, with a piece of heritage that goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u25	We are now being told that people are receiving some spiritual assistance. You've seen with me how many crying people there are who are going to ruin everything. They get help from a certain foundation. That foundation needs to get $200,000 to help people. Are you going to support that request? I understand that Mrs Beckerman intends to table a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u26	It's about the Stut-en-Steun Foundation, which does good work. This is well known to me, because we have also been in the process of establishing it. However, we must avoid getting all kinds of different organisations and well-meant activities to support people, creating fragmentation. Those people also need it to be widened and improved and there will be legal support. We shouldn't all shatter that. I'm looking for a way to do that as centrally as possible. I hope that the damage protocol will give as much effect as possible to proper implementation in the treatment of those damages. A good outcome of those damages is the most important thing for me. I am reluctant to say: you know what, we need to give all kinds of organizations more money so they can do their part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u27	We have just heard from the damage protocol that Mr Bosman said they should get out in Groningen. I reminded you that the Civil Code and the Mining Act are truly rural. I believe that we do have a national task to ensure that it is done right there. I understand: it is being formed, so perhaps Mr Bosman cannot say that much. If that's the case, just report it. Then we do not have to try to ask questions about the opinion of the VVD Group. If it is true in this debate that the four of them can say nothing for a moment, because it is discussed at that table, then I would much rather hear it than a few key words, which may have been agreed, such as 'careful' and, what was the other, 'careful'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u28	Take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u29	Or words like "motherhood" and "apple pie," which no one can oppose, but which are of no use to the people who are listening now. Then just say: we're forming, no news at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u30	Mrs. Van Tongeren knows me. I'm not running away from anything. What I think is important to me. I really think, from the bottom of my heart, that this should happen in Groningen. We have had a lot of complaints about how this extraction is achieved. Are the residents getting involved enough? That was also a comment from the OVV. We all thought it was about the residents and the drivers. There needs to be much more responsibility to Groningen, including in this story, about the handling of the damage. Make sure that it is properly arranged in Groningen, that those directors stand in their power to arrange it well, that there is solidarity in Groningen, that they stand together, that they stand up for those residents. Afterwards, I'd like to look at that protocol and what they got out of it. Then I am absolutely confident that those drivers in Groningen will get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u31	Do I hear Mr Bosman say between his nose and his lips that the Groningen gets a say at the extraction level? This is only established here, whereas this is actually the most important to them, as is the damage protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u32	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The working visit of the permanent Chamber of Economic Affairs to Groningen on 26 June also made many things clear. In addition to the huge challenge of strengthening and strengthening and the way in which this needs to be addressed, it is also about the emotional impact on the residents. It has quite an impact. You need to get out of your house to a replacement place. Then you return to a zero-on-the-meter house. Especially with residents of merchant houses it's about their money and maybe about part of their pension. That gives more pressure and more tension. Then a central approach does not always appreciate speeding up. We heard that too. Then perhaps the pace should go down again, because it is necessary to do justice to the interests of the residents. Some residents may prefer a higher sustainability adjustment than is economically feasible. That will be a disappointment. There may also be differences between different types of rental houses in the same neighborhood when it comes to the adjustment. This also creates friction and disappointment, while it can be explained technically. That is precisely why it is so very important that we are honest about the enormous challenges ahead in Groningen and that we come to a necessary solution in dialogue with the Groningers. Not us against them, but side by side. I'm rounding up. The task in Groningen remains unabated. The role of the drivers in Groningen is enormous. The VVD knows that all too well. I therefore offer them my support. The problem needs to be handled as carefully as possible, with minimal impact on residents. I therefore hope that the damage protocol will give substance to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u33	Mr. Chairman. "If the government, which is supposed to protect us, doesn't do that, where should we go?" That's what Ria Mulder asked in the church of Huizinge. Many Groningers feel incredibly abandoned by their own government. "Psychic stress is rising," says Ina Blink of Stut-en-Steun. The handling takes a long time. "There's a lot of disagreement and then the reinforcements have to come," says Ina. Jan Wigboldus, chairman of the Groninger Gas Council, wonders how "we are made a lot of money, but we have to drag everything away from the hell doors ourselves." "The village is torn apart," says Hanneke Huizenga, who has lived with her family in a temporary home in another village for two and a half years, because her own home has been demolished. "If the government, which is supposed to protect us, doesn't do that, where should we go?" Those are words that should hit you right in the heart, aren't they? Isn't that true of the Minister? Should the people not touch him in his heart, then perhaps the United Nations? Yesterday, the United Nations fingered the Netherlands. The Netherlands must take measures to ensure the physical safety of its inhabitants. Compliments to Derwin Schorren and his Groninger Soil Movement, because they went to the UN. But it is incredibly painful that people need to go to the United Nations to get their rights. Why, Minister, haven't you intervened before? Isn't the Minister ashamed that the UN should do this? Professor Tom Postmes of the University of Groningen says it doesn't get any better. Yesterday, he published new figures showing that the psychic burden is increasing. Postmes says that the pressure is increasing and that he has the impression that it is not going to be like this anymore. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. It's not getting any better, and the massive reinforcement operation is coming up. Whole villages are turned upside down, to strengthen houses to something they call euphemistically near-collapse. You can get out of your house alive, but you've lost your home. It doesn't get any better. In addition, last week it was announced that the maximum magnitude of an earthquake was increased from 5.0 to 7.0 on the Richter scale, 100 times higher than previously expected. I would like a response from the Minister to what he thinks is doing to people and what he's going to do about this. Marlene Bakker sang it so beautifully: if the Groningers ask for us, add a kilo. Groninger doesn't ask much. Yesterday, a report by the University of Groningen showed this. A quarter of the people don't even report damage anymore. Then the quote Dagblad van het Noorden recorded by VVD-Kamerlid André Bosman haunts my mind. I hope he's been miscited. According to Dagblad van he doesn't think the Empire should come quickly with a bag of money, because "you'll be able to create facilities everywhere at district and village level." Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u34	Please complete your sentence and Mr Bosman will be able to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u35	I'd love to. Unbelievable. Did the Groningers ask if the Rijksmuseum could be moved to Opwierde-Zuid? Do they want Royal Theatre Carré to reside in Appingedam from now on? No, the residents asked for a community center. A community center, because half their neighborhood is demolished and they want a place to talk to each other. If Groningers asked us to do it, add a kilo, Marlene Bakker sang, but is that even too much for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u36	Perhaps Mrs Beckerman should have written her text after I had spoken mine, because I think I was crystal clear. There's money available, but I don't think you should just put that down. I made the comparison with Zeeland. Zeeland also asked for money. I am Zeeland's MP, but I told Zeeland: come up with a good solution; if there is a good solution, there will be money. In Groningen, you need to take a serious look at what's needed. As I said, this must be done in conjunction with all those municipalities and all those provinces, because non-individual solutions must be properly regulated. Mrs. Beckerman is smiling a little bit now, but you have to think about it seriously. There are opportunities in Groningen, but you have to think about them together. Apparently the SP doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u37	In the meantime, we have been hit by the United Nations, by the Security Research Council, by the Children's Ombudsman, by the Ombudsman, by many, many Groningers, by the State surveillance of the Mines; the list is endless. Now the reaction is not: we are doing something wrong. No, these Groningers are even doing something wrong, because they don't come up with concrete plans. I think the Groningen people were very specific. The municipalities together with the Groninger Bottom Movement, the Gasberaad and the province have already laid down very clear plans. All you have to do is say yes. You just have to say yes for that little us more, because those Groningers deserve kilos
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u38	I totally agree: Groningers earn kilos, absolutely. We don't train anything and we don't stop anything. We're not banning anything. But you have to look at the problem. If Mrs Beckerman closes her eyes... There is shrinkage in Groningen, just as there is shrinkage in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. You have to deal with that seriously. In Zeeland-Flanders we don't get any money for that. In Groningen there are all the opportunities for this, but then one must come up with a coherent plan. Mrs Beckerman can turn away again and say: that money must come. The SP just pushes it up, I get that, but from the VVD you have to take a serious look at the odds. There are a lot of opportunities in Groningen, but you have to look carefully at how that works. Now pretending nothing's happening is a real goddamn goddamn thing. There's plenty going on. Well, there's never enough happening, but a lot is happening, let me put it this way. There's a lot more that could happen. Saying nothing's gonna happen is gonna piss me off. You need to see things in conjunction. There's a lot in Groningen. They also get that support from the VVD. But it's a responsibility we have to bear together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u39	Let us then move on to the view of Groningen, because I think it was very clear and it was also very clearly expressed when the Committee on the Rules of Procedure visited. I thank Mr Bosman for challenging me to come forward with concrete proposals. As he knows, I've sent four motions. I'm assuming he'll back that up. Groningen's vision is clear. We're gonna have to lower the gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u40	And with that, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u41	Yes. Is the Minister coming up with a phasing-out plan, with clarity about new wells? I have just said that since 1973 an independent compensation fund has been requested. The region agrees. We want a protocol on damages based on four pillars: a responsible state, the human dimension, fair assessment of damage and independence. That is a vision of the whole region. I would like a response from the Minister as to whether he wants to guarantee these pillars and ensure that there is an independent fund, apart from the NAM and EZ. In doing so, we would very much like the assurance that the arbitrator and the counter-expert will continue to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u42	We have already discussed the phasing-out of gas extraction in the Chamber. That's what the CDA has been talking about before. I believe that Mrs Sazias or Mr Wassenberg also tabled a motion on the reduction of gas extraction in Groningen, during the previous debate. The Minister made a commitment to that. So I wonder what else Mrs Beckerman would like to know from the Minister, in addition to the commitment he made at the time. I went on to ask: must that be the plan of the region? He said: yes, that must be put forward by the region. What is missing, then, Mrs Beckerman on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u43	Two points, actually. The first point is an accelerated phasing-out. The SP, like the Animal Party among others, is in favour of accelerated phasing-out; Mrs Mulder knows that. We have often supported or co-tabled motions for this. We want to go to 12 billion cubs a year. The second point, which is perhaps even more important, concerns the new wells. This afternoon we were offered a petition. Also in Friesland people are very worried. What's gonna happen now? Are there any new wells coming in? Is that necessary? Is there only profit being made, or is all this really necessary to ensure that we can all be warm? Are those wells in Drenthe and Woerden needed? What are we going to see in the next few days? Is it really necessary to open new wells? I ask for a clear plan, so that we really know for the whole of the Netherlands how to get rid of the gas as quickly as possible, what is still needed and what happens to the small fields.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u44	Does the SP really want to get rid of the small-field policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u45	I was charmed when they said in France: we are no longer opening new wells. At the same time, I also have the question: how can that be done? I simply want a plan for that. I tend very quickly to say: we have to get rid of it, so do new wells fit in? Maybe they're necessary, maybe not; we don't know that right now. That's why I'm asking for a plan. I therefore hope that Mrs Mulder will support that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u46	It is now clear that the SP does not exclude the small fields in any case, but wants to have a plan for it. She doesn't say no more drilling for gas. I'm curious about such a plan, by the way. I think it's good to have that information. I have another question about the 12 bcm. That number once stood in a footnote, but D66 said at one point: let the SodM come up with a report or advice on this, because it's somewhere in a footnote, but we don't have more than that. Does the SP have more information than just that footnote? I'm just curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u47	When you walk around Groningen, you notice that there's one thing that really gnaws at a lot of people... that's actually gnawing at me, too... and that's that horrible uncertainty, that uncertainty... what's going to happen, what's hanging over my head, what can I expect? In that light, I find it really incredibly sad that we are still not sure what a safe level of extraction is and whether that can be determined. That research has never been done, as Mrs Van Veldhoven knows. All levels that are constantly being examined are levels that the Minister has in mind and that fit within the security of supply, but security is never the top priority, as the UN noted yesterday. That 12 billion is one of the few numbers we know. We have taken this as our starting point in our programme. If it's safe at 13, 14 or 15 billion, I'd like to know, but that hasn't been investigated, so as long as that data isn't there, we're assuming as low a number as possible. If that's supposed to be 0, then it's 0, but there's got to be that clarity. For the moment, therefore, we are assuming the one number that we know, and that is 12 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u48	The SodM has mentioned a number in an official opinion at many different times. The figure of 12 billion has been mentioned once in a footnote. Of course, that's not for nothing. I fully understand that people want as much security as possible and I share the concern about the uncertainty of the people with Mrs Beckerman. D66 has once again asked for a justification of that number of 12 billion. Mrs Beckerman says it must be 12 billion, but we do not really know that either, because there is no report underneath it. I share with Mrs Beckerman that that is sad. That's why I asked for it. I'm just curious if Mrs Beckerman has more information than that footnote. If that is not the case, then perhaps we should say to each other: we need that report around the 12 billion, otherwise we don't really know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u49	But that is so intensely sad! We'll all go with recess later. Then we are with recess and celebrate the very wretched birthday of five years since the quake of Huizinge. We are opposed to each other here and we must note that there is still no phasing out plan for gas extraction, that we still do not know whether it can be safe, but we do have this KNMI calculation that a 7.0 earthquake on the Richter scale can take place. Then I conclude that it is time to take it for granted and to cut off that gas extraction as soon as possible. That's why I'm asking for a plan by way of a motion. Of course, I'm hoping for your signature underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u50	I would ask you to continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u51	The region has a clear vision. More eye for man rather than just for money and stones, said Ina Blink. Acknowledge the suffering, show solidarity, said Janet van de Bunt van de Universiteit Leiden. Invest in Groningen, invest in perspective. Rutte spoke fine words about Groningen. He said, "NAM out, get the boss." And Rutte also said about the formation: we can just keep making decisions, you know. But Kamp writes in his letter about the OVV recommendation: "The outgoing cabinet will not take irreversible steps and leave decision-making to a next cabinet." What is it? Just words, no deeds? I'd like a response. A resident from Middelstum said it strikingly: there will be nice weather, but it is not a nice weather. If the government that's supposed to protect us doesn't do that, where should we go, Ria Mulder said. It's time for Groningers to get back to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u52	Mr. Chairman. The Groningen earthquakes left a trail of destruction in the region. This destruction is visible not only in the buildings, the churches and the farms, but also in the heads and hearts of the inhabitants. There are cracks in the houses and there are cracks in confidence. Groningers see that they have been fighting against all the authorities for years, that the NAM is mainly for the shareholders, not for the residents, and that many reports are being made but that little is being repaired. Although progress has been made on the latter. It's strange and frustrating that the agency that causes the cracks in your house is also the one that decides how much you get reimbursed. For the Groningers, that fight with the NAM is an unequal battle. I am therefore pleased that the Chamber has approved by a large majority the proposal that I have made here to achieve a genuinely independent settlement of damages without the NAM. This also means that we need to redesign it, including funding. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about this. In this context, the proposal for a fund has come out. I have a lot of questions about that. I want to make sure that it is properly arranged and cannot assess it only on the basis of the word 'fund'. I have a number of questions for the Minister. It is also important that the new damage protocol is supported by the Groningen authorities. This means a careful process in which everyone is heard and in which the greatest possible consensus is sought with relevant organisations. At the same time, of course, we also have a time pressure. As long as we're negotiating the protocol, the settlement of damages will stop. None of us want people to have to wait months for the handling. The Minister writes in his letter that he hopes that it will be ready by the end of July. How long does he expect it to take before the damage settlement can really start again, so that people can see that there is progress on their file again? The position of the National Coordinator is of great importance in the further design of the damage handling and reinforcement notice. For this there is a change of law in the making. What is the state of affairs, I would like to ask the Minister. And how does that relate to the damage protocol? What is the Minister's position on the arbitrators? We noticed there's a lot of confidence in the arbiter in the area. How does the Minister see the future of these arbitrators? Meanwhile, while we have been talking about it here for years, a lot of people are getting above paperwork. We met people in Groningen who said: for this reason alone I may not press charges. I have previously tabled a motion asking to support people who were unable to do so in the handling of the paperwork. What is the progress on the implementation of this motion? We all know the example of Stut-en-Steun, for which we all have a great deal of sympathy, but perhaps more will happen or some other way. How does the Minister do that? Then there's the reinforcement call. In the meantime, the call for reinforcement is finally starting. That's gonna have a huge impact on Groningen. People spend a long time in uncertainty about the safety of their homes or perhaps the question of where their pet should stay. Many will also have to leave their homes for months. Some houses need to be demolished. It is then very important that people are included in such a process about their own home from the beginning to the end. There must be attention to the personal situation and the personal consequences. When you hear that the house you've lived in for years is probably being demolished, it has a huge impact. We spoke to a number of residents there. I was really impressed by what these women mean to the residents. I ask the Minister if there is enough room for this guidance. Are we gonna make sure we have enough people who have experience in doing bad news conversations? "Your house will be demolished." Someone will come to you with that message. We need to ensure that the knowledge and skills, but also the capacity and space are there to conduct these conversations carefully. What solution do we offer the people in the fleece houses, just to put it a little cryptically? Those people see that other homes are being strengthened and improved in their neighborhood, making their homes relatively less valuable. I imagine these people are left with a gruesome feeling. What can we offer them? How can we make the opportunities for sustainability and redevelopment of neighbourhoods future-proof? Do the municipalities also have the possibility to use expertise to look into such complex processes? In the context of Space for the River, many conversations had to be made with people who had to leave their homes, because a dike had to be strengthened. Then we had some kind of team that did this all day. Those were people who knew how to handle these things and found those creative solutions. In Groningen, the province may also consider such a team, to which municipalities can appeal. I'll just leave the question to the Minister. On the basis of the new maps that have now come out, does the Minister also assume that fewer houses need to be strengthened? How much less are we talking about? Can we give Groningen a positive signal for once, so maybe it's not as bad as we feared each other? To close, I'm going to go into the research on the subsurface. According to the Minister, there are now two knowledge programmes in which research is carried out. When are these knowledge programmes so steamy that they can carry out a full second opinion on the research on the subsurface carried out by the NAM? Does the Minister agree with the SodM that the Impact Mining Knowledge Programme should have a role in an independent evaluation of the underground models?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u53	As just recalled, it has been five years since the great earthquake at Huizinge. During this period Mrs Van Veldhoven and I have been working together on the dossier. We've filed motions together. Sometimes motions were supported by both of us, sometimes supported by one, sometimes by the other. We've been hard on it. I now hear a whole series of questions on legitimate issues, but if Mrs Van Veldhoven looks back now, does she think that we as a parliament have acted adequately in this situation? Or does she find together with GroenLinks, looking back at what has been done in those five years and looking at the laundry list of questions that we still have today, that we, too, have actually abandoned the Groningers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u54	That is a difficult question because, of course, I see that the situation in Groningen is one in which people are still dissatisfied. I think we should then note that the situation has developed in a way that we could not foresee in advance and that it is 'learning by doing' for all of us. Of course things should have been done differently or more in all kinds of places, but I would also think that it would have gone too far to place the blame exclusively on the House of Representatives. I think Mrs Van Tongeren is right to say that, for example, we have tried together to do what we thought we could do for people. I have also seen this with colleagues from both the opposition and the coalition. We have dealt with signals from the region. I think we've been trying to take it really seriously. Sometimes it could, sometimes it couldn't. Looking back in hindsight you can say: some things should have been done sooner and faster, such as the decline in gas extraction, for example. Personally, I didn't find a high point in this file that the judge should be involved in, to put it mildly. It is also a process that we have been in together and a process that has been very difficult for everyone to see through. That would be my answer. I also like to look forward with Mrs Van Tongeren. One of the things that we have done well in recent years is that we in the Chamber have acted as much as possible and that we have seen where we could make things possible with each other. In this way we have shown Groningen: we are all thinking of you, we see it as a national problem and we would like to work together on a solution for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u55	Now, looking ahead, we have this debate today, and we are not just having it. If I listen carefully to Mrs Van Veldhoven's contribution, all I hear is requests for information and a request to investigate a possible compensation fund. Does Mrs Van Veldhoven think it is appropriate that the only thing the Chamber is doing is asking questions with the forming parties in the majority now is asking this Minister for further information? Is that what this House of Representatives has to say on this day, considering the big problem in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u56	If the damage protocol had been there, we could have made final decisions. Since that is not the case, and I believe that we in Parliament are saying that the protocol on damage must be borne by the region, I would not say that we in this Chamber know better what the region wants than the region itself. So I don't think it's wise to do that. I think we can say to the Minister on a number of points: give us more information so that when that protocol arrives, we can make our point. Of course, a formation period is also a period in which you have to think carefully with each other about the question: how do we do things? Mrs Van Tongeren was sitting at the table at some point. That may not have happened, but she also knows very well what it's like. It's a time when you're trying to put something really good together. Well, we shall see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u57	Perhaps I misunderstand Mrs Van Veldhoven, but do I really hear her say that it is good news when there are fewer problems in Groningen due to a modified card? I just thought one of Groningen's problems was that there was constant adaptation of maps. I am referring, for example, to a contour map. People who suffered damage just in or out of that map. Changing cards do not have to be good news at all, but can also create greater uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u58	I think it's good news that we know more. When more people are safe, I think that's good news. I do think that we should be generous in dealing with the damage. Mrs Mulder has asked a number of questions about gas storage, for example. You know about that: you pump gas into the ground and you pump gas out. That is not in the basic damage maps we have used so far, but I do think it is an area that we should pay particular attention to. D66 has always said in recent years: let us, above all, pay generously and let us deal with it generously. To say you should be happy if more people were unsafe... I don't think that's gonna make anyone happy. If we come to the conclusion that the risks are different, we can also say that the risks are different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u59	This does not mean that we will look afterwards in the vein of: is your damage recognised or not, depending on a particular card? It has to be considered whether something is mining damage or not. Whether you fall within a contour map or not is actually less relevant. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u60	In my view, the Chamber has even said that we should not talk about mining damage, but about the total damage related to earthquakes. Mrs Van Tongeren is now starting to look very hard, but I think we have always said... No, it doesn't. It has to be mining damage. Let's not confuse these two now. That is precisely because we do not want this discussion to take place. There is a map of the areas where people are really at risk. It is not drawn up by the NAM, but by the KNMI. If, on the basis of new insights, it appears that the concerns are different and that fewer people are at risk, should you be pleased, Mr Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u61	Mrs Van Veldhoven was just talking about the earthquake-related damage or the mining-related damage. During the working visit last Monday we received the request from people: please let it be dealt with by the government. That's mining-related damage. It's probably a better legal arrangement, too. So that supports Mrs Van Veldhoven, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u62	We have had a number of discussions in the Chamber: can you directly relate certain damage to an earthquake or do you have to look at the whole of what is happening through mining? For example, it may also have to do with the groundwater level, which suddenly becomes very different when mining takes place somewhere. That's the kind of damage you have to take with you. If that is the request, then we have discussed this issue in the Chamber quite a number of times. We also said that you need to see that concept widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u63	That's right. I'd like to go there. I myself live in the mining damage area of Limburg. My grandfather used to work in the mines. There are indeed problems with rising groundwater and mine gas on top of that. That's all taken off here, too. We must not forget that it does not only play in Groningen. South Limburgers also suffer, fortunately to a lesser extent; I have to admit that. I intend to table a motion on this matter. I can do a bit of surveying, which often saves under the eye of the cameras. Which Members of Parliament sometimes give a sympathetic answer. That is why I am asking Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u64	But I assume the answer to Mr Graus was sympathetic enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u65	Mr. Chairman. The debate today would be about the damage protocol, but unfortunately it is not there yet because the region still needs a little more time. Of course, we'd like to give it to the region. As always, we were back in Groningen last week as a committee for economic affairs and we were thinking in the church of Huizinge about the fact that five years ago the earthquake was in Huizinge. The advice of the State Monitoring of Mines was in early 2013 to bring down gas extraction as quickly as possible. Partly thanks to the Council of State, extraction has been further reduced to what is needed to maximise security of supply. Recently, following an increase in the number of earthquakes, the Minister decided to further reduce mining. What about the NAM? The NAM fights that at the courthouse and she has that right, but she doesn't want the Groningers and herself here as long as it isn't as safe in Groningen as in the rest of the country, leaving aside that the people have all the trouble and that that's going to take a while. We're a long way from here. Where are we with the damage recovery now? There are over 80,000 claims and complaints about the settlement of damages continue to come in, including in our mailboxes. There is no new damage protocol yet, and independence in the settlement of damages is still to be sought. Of course, the new damage protocol cannot be the framework of Witteveen and Bos. Let me be very clear about that today. The group of arbitrators is one of the few bodies in which there is still confidence. How does the Minister intend to give the arbitrators the room, including the new protocol, and what does he think they are saying about that? The clean slate plan to buy off damage also leads to a lot of discontent among residents of Groningen. Is this clean slate plan, that poor €1,500 in a letter from the NAM to buy off damage, aligned with the National Coordinator Groningen? The inhabitants of Langelo and Steenbergen should also simply be part of the damage protocol that applies to Groningen. Can the Minister promise us that today? And then the damage to our small-field policy. Due to the poor damage handling in Groningen, this cabinet and the NAM themselves created resistance to that small field policy. Is the Minister prepared to let the companies that want to extract gas from the small fields offer a zero measurement standard to the inhabitants and businesses in the area? If damage occurs later, let's hope it doesn't happen, because in the past, it has been lucky to see the small-field policy in the past, at least you know what the state of your home was like. When is the Minister going to do that? And then the people who reported damage, but are now waiting for the new protocol. Is the Minister prepared to have those damages recorded at least in accordance with the new concept method on the table? For damage recovery and reinforcement, there's a bill ready. The Prime Minister also referred to this when he was in Groningen. He said the following. The Council of State can say whatever it wants, but in Groningen it's time to go through with it. I say, hurry up. And the minister said he didn't do anything with the bill. Could the Minister explain why the Prime Minister said that progress should be made, while the Council of State's opinion on the bill has apparently been ready since April? With the backup, it's also frighteningly slow. Thousands of homes still need to be tackled in order to make it as safe in Groningen by 2020 as in the rest of the country. The CDA would also like the additional costs for new construction to be determined independently, rather than the NAM taking a lot of time for this and keeping a lot of uncertainty about it. Developers and municipalities in Groningen are in the hair about this. There is now no standard that the new building must meet. The minister said in April that he is conducting reconnaissance on this subject. How's that going? What is legally possible to charge the NAM for the additional costs of new construction to comply with that national practical directive? And how much does the NAM contribute to the additional costs? Is this part of the bill the Minister is preparing? And if not, why not? There is also the scheme for the sustainability of Groningen to compensate. Here I have the feeling that balancing remains between customization and equality between residents. That turned out to be during the visit we made to Appingedam. What is the balancing framework in this respect? What is the commitment of the National Coordinator and the Minister? My colleague from D66 has just rightly mentioned this. Surely it can't be that your house is getting relatively less valuable because other houses are being replaced in the same neighborhood? We really need an answer from the Minister. He can't do this either. This isn't just a technical exercise. This years of misery is going to be under your skin. People sleep with it and people get up with it. What all this does to our inhabitants is still underexposed to many. It also gives the Groningen the idea that they are not being done justice. Fortunately, there are people, for example at Stut-en-Steun, standing next to the inhabitants and offering them guidance. Will the Minister look at what is needed in this area for our citizens and how this can be taken seriously? I also agree with the questions raised by the D66 Group. 'Cause it's gotta be different. We'd like to hear from the Minister how he's going to further elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u66	We just heard during the contribution of the VVD and D66 that there should be a damage protocol that is supported by the region. Mrs Mulder is saying the same thing now. But I'm sure we both read that note about a new damage protocol with acceptance. It was worn by the region. All the gremia have agreed to that. Shouldn't that be the basis for that damage protocol? Does Mrs. Mulder understand why there isn't now? At least I don't understand. The plans are there, so why isn't there a damage protocol now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u67	I think we all would have liked to deal with that damage protocol today in this Chamber. Because these requests all pile up after the new quakes that have been there. Those people aren't being helped right now. I think we're all bumped into it. So we want it all to come as soon as possible. But now the parties in the region are asking us together: can we have a little more time to get it worn even better? If that's what people are asking, of course I'm giving that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u68	What part of the region, according to Mrs Mulder, does not bear the contents of that note?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u69	I have had questions about this from various quarters. The Minister also writes about it in his letter. He writes that, of course, he would also like to give the region a chance to complete it further in such a way that there really is something to go on with. That's the point, of course. That is something that Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks and we in the CDA really share.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u70	I am delighted to hear how much support Mrs Mulder has for the region. But of course the region has already spoken out. The municipalities did so together with the provinces, the Groninger Bottom Movement and the Groninger Gasberaad. They have said that there are a number of principles that we would very much like to see included. The most important principles are a responsible State, the human measure, fair assessment of damage and independence. The region's already figured that out. Can we not say yes to these principles today, so that we can move forward as quickly as possible? Mrs Mulder said she supports the region. Does it therefore support these four principles?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u71	I have just gone into this question of independence in detail. That's the core of what we're talking about here. You have the idea that your damage is considered earthquake damage, but we're always talking about mining damage here in the House of Representatives. If that's in a protocol from the Centrum Safe Living, but you have to sign at some point that you won't get the other forms of damage that you might have at your house anymore, that's obviously crazy for words. I have just gone into the issue of independence in detail. That's the core of what we're talking about here. Suppose you have the idea that your damage is considered earthquake damage, while we here in the House of Representatives are always talking about mining damage. And if that's in a protocol from the Center of Safe Living and you sign at some point that those other forms of damage, which you may have in your home, will no longer be reimbursed, then of course that's too crazy for words. So that independence is so incredibly important. That is why I said today that the framework of Witteveen+Bos cannot be led. Then we find ourselves in weird contour discussions, which the entire Chamber has said it does not want. This raises the question that Mrs Beckerman is asking me, namely whether or not you are going to do it via a fund. I think it's worth investigating how you're gonna decorate it like that. Before Mrs Beckerman was in the Chamber, I already spoke with her predecessor, Mr Smaling, about what the Mining Act does with the limitation period in Limburg; Mr Graus just spoke about it. Everyone in Groningen, of course, looks at how things were resolved in Limburg in 1994; then the water levels went up there again. Officially, we work here with the year 1974, in which things started, but the people do have damage. I really don't want that scenario for Groningen. I just wanted to be very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u72	That's all right. Mrs Mulder says she agrees with one of the four pillars. Let's keep looking. Another important pillar is the responsible State. The region very much wants the State to say: we take responsibility; you no longer have to fight with the NAM. Mrs Mulder has already said yes to the pillar of independence. Does it also say yes to those other pillars, specifically the pillar of the responsible State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u73	I've been saying yes to independence for a long time. I've been doing that for a couple of years. The suggestion is now being awakened as if I find it for the first time today; I find that really very bizarre. I would like to correct that in the direction of Mrs Beckerman. She can't help it either; she might have to get used to it here. On the other side, we shall also be discussing this at the table. Mrs Beckerman can imagine that herself. She could've been there, too. She was welcome, but she refused. That is a pity, but we have to look at how we get there in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u74	Mr. Chairman. The Groningers are terrified of their greatest possessions. These are not even the houses and monuments, but their safety and health. What struck me during my many work visits to Groningen, also bilaterally, is that they lack recognition. All the MPs who are here have heard that. They keep saying that this is not just about material damage; they lack recognition and yet some emotional involvement. That's right. There's too much business dealing with these people. I myself come from the mining area of Limburg. Limburg, like Groningen, has been an energy supplying province for many years. Billions, billions have been taken out of the ground. Heat and energy, a primary need for life for everyone, for all Dutch, have delivered them. The government has often even been able to correct its budgets, in retrospect over the back of those Limburgers and those Groningers. They're gonna be abandoned dirty anyway. Let's face it. How long have we been standing here? Someone wrote to me the following: "I moved with my wife and children four years ago from Loppersum to The Hague."I see that the minister is having a little patiencen; sorry, he writes on what I say "to live with my high-age mother for a few months. That is what we thought, at least after the encouraging words of Minister Kamp to address the problems of the earthquakes as quickly and effectively as possible and to relieve people." That is, of course, a disgrace. We haven't really made much progress. It can't be. In Appingedam, we spoke to a young father. We've been listening to people crying all day. That's really not normal. These people, also spiritually, are completely destroyed. A young father said to be afraid of his daughters, his two girls, that the ceiling just comes down. Guys, what are we doing in the Netherlands? We land on the moon and we clone sheep, and what happens here? It's like it's a disadvantaged area. That's how they're treated. I find that more often when it comes to Groningen and Limburg. I've said that here before. Minister, please act, and certainly for the few months you've been sitting there. It's really a personal call to you. The debate on the settlement of damages in Groningen has indeed led to cross-party connections. That's right. My predecessor Reinette Klever has worked very well with Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Van Tongeren and you name it, while the PVV has often had to stand aside in recent years. Yet you saw that we have joined forces in the national interest of our citizens whose security is at stake. My compliments on that. I appreciate that. Even PVV-hater Freek de Jonge I met him at the Square; he wasn't so happy that he saw me.. supports movements of the PVV from the past years. He also supports motions tabled by Ton van Kesteren, our group chairman in the Provincial States of Groningen. Freek de Jonge is simply calling for our motions, which were tabled there years ago. Even Freek de Jonge has started to love the PVV. Think about it. I have a question for the Minister. We were asked by those involved and injured to handle it all and settle it as mining-related damage. The minister probably heard that during the interruption. I would have liked a response from the Minister. What are the advantages and disadvantages if we went from earthquake-related damage to mining-related damage? I'm considering tabling a motion on that. That mining-related damage, as I prefer to call it, has not only destroyed homes, businesses and monuments. Again, during our many work visits to Groningen it turned out that there really were cracks in the people. Someone wrote about tears in the soul. That's sad. It involves both physical and mental cracks. I'm just gonna call it one more time. They lack the recognition of, and trust in, the government in particular. That was explicitly stated. In any case, the PVV has tried to do something here and in the Provincial States we have tabled motion on motion for Grunnen and the Grunnegers. I hope I speak out well, Mrs Beckerman and Mr Nijboer, because I am just a Limburger. We have made requests from the reversal of the gas tap to a generous compensation for the damage suffered to houses and buildings, including many monuments. I already told you not to fix that with plastic chimneys. Then the government is playing a little Beun de Haas. We shouldn't do that. Let's stop that, please. As in previous debates, I intend to make motions. I will also co-sign many good motions from colleagues. We are in favour of a plan-independent compensation fund, supported by the region. Minister, make it happen. Go ensure the physical safety of our residents in Groningen. Of course, those fleece houses can't be. Of course, they get depreciation. If a part of the neighborhood is renovated and they only get two fortifications they want to make it a kind of Flintstones house of course that is not possible. What happens when such fleece houses, often with only two fortifications and five houses in the middle, a wave or a wave move comes? What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u75	Mr. Chairman. If you've been following the reports for the past week, almost five years after the earthquake in Huizinge, the hairs will rise. Socially, things are getting worse with the Groningen. That's pretty much what everyone knows who's coming. We ourselves have experienced in Huizinge how intrusive it is. I think all the colleagues were there. It also leads to fewer and fewer people reporting damage. They don't feel like it anymore. They can't take the shit anymore. A message from the cabinet itself last Friday was that the damages protocol has not yet been completed. This means that more and more people have to spend weeks and more weeks waiting for them to report their damage at all if they want to solve something quickly. They always don't know what they're up to. Yesterday, the UN Human Rights Committee said that the Groningen people have been treated really badly and that the Netherlands is getting a slap on the wrist. Today, an alderman of the city of Groningen talks in the newspaper about the new building standards. He's wondering what we're doing. Construction's stalling. There are a lot of people who want to settle in the city, but if the builders don't know what the buildings are supposed to be, they don't build. The construction has been months and months behind and we haven't even agreed yet, while we've been at it for so long. When you talk to the business community, you know that this also applies to companies. Groningen's gonna stand by this. This makes Groningen suffer more and more and that has an increasing impact. That impact was already enormous. You can see that the gallery is now less filled and I understand that, because we are having a debate, after debate, after debate, and it is not getting anywhere. I would like to raise a few things. I had a laundry list of things that still need to be addressed, but yes, you can't do that much in five minutes. The first is the damages fund. The role of the NAM must be over. I thought we were Chamberwide. The next step is that someone else has to be responsible and only one party is capable of doing so. We can say: governments sister and everything, but this cannot be carried by the province. It can't carry hundreds of millions of damages. And the municipalities aren't responsible for this. So there's only one party that can do that, and that's the Empire. The Empire has to take over this. People need to be able to file their claims with the Empire. Indeed, I am not going along with the question of how big that fund should be, because I have no idea. If you already know that 25% of the people are afraid to report the damage, it is clear that that simply must be unlimited. The Empire just has to pay for the damage and the reinforcements. The Empire will then have to deal with the NAM's expensive lawyers through the state's attorney. That really needs to happen. Is the cabinet willing to take care of that? It would take away a lot of stress, pressure and psychic misery if it was done independently, by the government, and no longer by a private company.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u76	In substance, I now strongly agree with the PvdA. The PvdA is just in the government right now. This is an issue which, as far as I am concerned, cannot be very much delayed. What does the PvdA Group intend to achieve through its participation in the government in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u77	The PvdA Group is unanimous and there are rulers in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u78	I hear the PvdA now saying: there must be a fund. The Party for Animals is very much in agreement with that. Is that money supposed to come from the Empire? Does the PvdA want the polluter to pollute in this case that the NAM causes earthquakes and that the taxpayer should pay for it? Or does the PvdA also want the fund to be filled by the NAM?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u79	I want people to be able to go to the Empire and not be with a company anymore. I also said that the Empire should tell the story on the NAM. Because of course the NAM is responsible. Surely it would be inconceivable for me to see what you see me for. Does the NAM want to safeguard its responsibility? That's out of the question. The second point I raised during the debate on 20 April. That is one of the most important points of the PvdA. This concerns the many hats the Ministry of Economic Affairs wears: the amount of gas extraction, the security of supply, the investment programme, the reinforcement programme, the protocol and all the conditions associated with it. It's not going well. In the letter of Friday on page 2, the cabinet writes that it accepts all the recommendations of the Research Council for Security, but if you turn a page, you see that the cabinet on page 3 simply ignores the motion that calls for this. That motion was passed by this missionary chamber. I wonder what we're doing here. I do believe that many motions are tabled here and that this will make it easier for the Minister to get away with it. I co-signed a few motions myself last time, but I did not table any motions of my own, partly for that reason. 'Cause it's a lot. We should be a little concerned about that, too. But if we're gonna take something here, it's just gonna have to be done. I don't accept that that's not gonna happen. The Security Research Council and the majority of the Chamber have said that the level of security should no longer be an integral part of EZ, because all these interests are too intertwined. That's not good. We need to get rid of that. As far as the PvdA is concerned, this includes a phasing-out path for gas extraction, but there is another motion for a resolution. Mrs Mulder has already referred to this and there has been a response to that. I'm afraid I'll find something about the damage protocol. I think people are very right. They have something that works, namely an arbitrator, whom we have also spoken to. There's a lot of confidence in that. I myself would like it to be a little more accessible, because it depends on whether the mayor sends it or not. The mayor or the National Coordinator should do that. That's what people depend on, so you could think of something better. I think it's important that you have and keep that independent counterexpertise. I have already said something about the construction of new buildings, and I would like a response from the Minister. At the monuments and the churches you can make reinforcement plans until you weigh one o'clock, but they go to the gallemies if you don't do it properly and carefully. This requires a very precise discussion about how to deal with the soul of the Groninger land, how to deal with the farms, the churches and the old village houses. How can you keep them without strengthening them in such a way that you will destroy them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u80	Thank you. Then I'll give the floor... oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u81	I snuck in invisible. Mr Nijboer was right to say that it is very common for a motion to be adopted, but not implemented, but an amendment that has not been adopted, which I have never seen before. An amendment was tabled by me and supported by a majority in order to release two tonnes for a number of pilot processes. How does the PvdA view that with an amendment tabled? The Minister has confirmed to me that he is blocking this money from being made available or spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u82	I noticed that there is a letter of inquiry in which the cabinet apologizes and says that it has always secured security. It is said first: we follow everything and then they do not. This is another amendment that is not being implemented. I am very surprised to see that all this is tolerated by these spokesmen. I wouldn't do that, I agree with you. I think, if the Chamber says anything, the Minister should do it. On the other hand, it would be good if the Chamber were to be a little more moderate and precise in its wishes, so if we were to merge the motions a little bit and say: these three things we have now arranged for Groningen and next time we will settle 3 instead of 26 motions where everyone loses their way. That would be good for the Groningen too, I think. If I have a motion or amendment under which the PvdA is under, I'll hold the cabinet to it. I will not fail to do so even in a missionary period. That's how I'm used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u83	If you're going to do your best, while you're still part of the coalition, there are over 120 motions from me. Then perhaps you could put in a good word for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u84	Mr Graus, you must not let that pass. You're so passionate. I am not such a huge petitioner, but I do have a few a year, because I have done a lot of debates. I cannot remember a motion from me not being carried out. I'll just hold them to that. I think that is the duty of the Chamber. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u85	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u86	Mr. Chairman. Around 1960, one of the largest gas fields in the world was discovered at Slochteren. Over the past 50 years, the Dutch State has received more than 250 billion in gas revenues from Groningen. Norway decided in the 1970s that its oil profits should be invested in a national savings fund, making it one of the most wealthy countries in the world. Every citizen of Norway is, in fact, a millionaire. The Netherlands has praised the enormous gas revenues mainly for generous social benefits and for the cost of mass immigration. As if all this is not bad enough in itself, what is happening in Groningen is really shameful. For 50 years, Groningen has been treated like a wingewest to fund the attack on the nation state, and now that the Groningen are facing earthquakes and damage, the party cartel does not give home. Yes, endless conference circuits are rigged, with dialogue tables, gas councils, action coalitions, protocols and other cartel bullshit. Senatu deliberante saguntum perit. Why is every problem in the Netherlands always made so unnecessarily complicated? It is abstracted from a general issue and is divided into 20 different consultative committees, tables and participatory bodies, while these people simply need to be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u87	What is the concrete solution of the Forum for Democracy for Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u88	It is as if Mrs Van Tongeren has already read my speech, because that is exactly what I wanted to come up with. I would therefore like to continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u89	Mrs. Van Tongeren would like an answer. In it you can then immediately blur a piece of your speech. You rarely get such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u90	That's a unique opportunity, thank you very much. The solution is very simple. A valuer shall be set up to calculate the damage. In addition, a second or third valuer may have to give a second opinion. The amount of damage must then be transferred to the bank account of the injured Groningers. All this could be over before the end of the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u91	And then there will be new earthquakes and new damage. The injury is then contested and the second and third valuers disagree. People are gonna go to court. So it's not that easy. I believe that there must be a solution. However, I think that you are failing the problems in Groningen by saying that all the people who are working on them in the Chamber, the officials and the people in Groningen are stupid and have not given proper thought and then to come up with a simple solution as a new MP, namely to send three valuers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u92	In fact, this remark refers precisely to the problem that I would like to raise in the light of our criticism, namely that there is a political view here from meetings, from endless procedures. So all we can see is the problems that could result from an approach without all these meeting circuits. One is caught in a kind of spider web of one's own bureaucracy. The Forum for Democracy believes that this is reflected in almost all sectors of society. Mrs. Van Tongeren suggests it's impossible to get out about the damage. The real problem, however, is that no one wants to take responsibility for a decision. Everything is actually made in a web of meetings invisible. He will then have to say something about this and he will have to say something about it. There are project groups, platforms, steering committees, reports and vision documents, but what's just to happen is someone says, "I'm gonna decide this now, we're gonna do this, and tomorrow the money's gonna be transferred." That is the difference between the mindset from one side Forum for Democracy and the party cartel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u93	Mrs. Van Veldhoven and Mrs. Mulder, you came together. What are we gonna do? I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven, at seniority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u94	I think Mr Baudet has gotten a little caught up in the spider web of his own thinking. Has he been to Groningen yet? The big problem is that someone has taken responsibility. That's the NAM, and he says, "You won't be compensated for your damage." That's the problem! So what is your solution, Mr Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u95	This is where politics has to intervene. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u96	So that's what the Chamber did. The clear solution you have in mind is that there will be one valuer and someone will take responsibility. We had that system. The NAM said we'll decide and you won't be reimbursed. Then the Chamber said: we do not want that anymore. We want people to have a second opinion. We want this to be independent. We want people no longer to negotiate with the NAM, but simply to be compensated for their damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u97	And it won't happen!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u98	I would almost like to say that I think you are very much in agreement with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u99	It's not happening!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u100	No, but then it's about why it doesn't happen. This Chamber has been working for years to make it happen. Perhaps you should have taken a look at all the things we said about it and then come up with an additional bright idea, rather than the cobwebs. At least that didn't help the Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u101	In response to this, I would just like to propose one thing. In addition to the other proposals of the Forum for Democracy to vote on the major decisions, we could also make the big decision to cut hard deadlines. We can decide tonight to put it to the vote. We can make sure that these problems are resolved by the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u102	I know what Mrs. Van Veldhoven says. We did think the NAM would work it out nicely, but it didn't. We have amended the Mining Act. There are also some things in Minister Kamp's office. What else would Forum for Democracy do to solve it? Of course, I am always interested in that, because we can learn from it, but our experience so far is that it is all a little more complicated than Mr Baudet is putting forward today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u103	We would appoint an organization to map out the exact damage in one month. By the end of August, it'll all be wired.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u104	We had such an organization, the National Coordinator Groningen. He's here, too. He was gonna do that because this was a problem. Yet it turned out to be very uncomfortable. What is the solution according to the Democracy Forum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u105	On the points where the matter cannot be resolved smoothly, the government should take the lead and take a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u106	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u107	We'll do the interruptions in half. Mr Bosman, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u108	I have another point. In between, Mr Baudet mentioned how much money has come from the Groningen field and said that this has gone to social security and mass immigration. Can Mr Baudet indicate how much money has been spent on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u109	There have often been requests, including from the Chamber, for an investigation into the exact cost of mass immigration. That is one of the taboo issues in Dutch politics. That's why they can't be determined in exact numbers. However, we know that it has been one of the most expensive projects undertaken in politics. If we consider, then, that the benefits of gas extraction have, in fact, been mostly to the benefit of the social system, then it is a matter of adding one and one together to conclude that these costs have been so quickly incurred by mass immigration. But I am very pleased with this question because it suggests that perhaps now there will also be support for the VVD to map out the exact costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u110	This is a little air bike ride from Mr Baudet. He's laying down a statement here that he can't prove. I think that's a bad thing. I can assume that the Democracy Forum also likes the facts, at least that's how it pretends. But there is a statement here, and Mr Baudet is absolutely incapable of mentioning just one number. Yeah, one plus one, that's the only thing, and not even with an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u111	That's not true. It's not impossible to say anything about it. Through deduction we can derive that there are... Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u112	Then do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u113	We only speak in the microphone. You asked Mr Baudet a question and he is going to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u114	For example, demographic researcher Jan van de Beek did a major research on the cost of mass immigration not so long ago. He says that the pressure of mass immigration on the welfare state is much greater than that of native Dutch. At the moment when you are spending a lot of benefits on social security, it is obvious that this is funding mass immigration. I see no problem in this reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u115	I would like to give my colleague Baudet a bit of support. A few years ago, the PVV had it sorted out. Already then, for those massive tsunami, the cost of mass immigration was plus minus 7 billion a year. Back in the day. So I'd like to help him out a little bit. However, I also understand that Mr Bosman is a little afraid of someone like Mr Baudet because he is also afraid of being swallowed up by the Forum for Democracy, because it does not do that in the polls. Congratulations on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u116	We'll put these in our pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u117	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u118	Our proposal is very simple: hire a contractor who assesses the damage, and if necessary a second contractor who checks the damage. Then transfer the amount of damage to the bank account of the injured Groningers. If the damage is irreparable, the people from Groningen must be bought out at the original market value. It cannot be the case that the enormous gas benefits end up completely asymmetrically with the Dutch State and the NAM and the disadvantages are borne by the people of Groningen. Hire a contractor, have him map the damage and cover the costs. It could be beeped within a month, even before the end of the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u119	We may be a bit laughing about it, but this is really scandalous, how easy Mr Baudet says here how we are going to deal with the problem in Groningen: there will be a contractor... There aren't even enough contractors; there aren't enough physical people. And then Mr Baudet says this here. We do that by motion or something, so that the Chamber decides: there are more contractors? I think it's a disgrace, really!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u120	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u121	Thank you. I look at the clock and I look at the minister. The Minister is so prepared that he prefers to answer directly the questions of the Chamber. Do I understand correctly, Minister? He's nodding. So I think that's how we're gonna do it. The Minister has the floor to answer all the questions put by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u122	Mr. Chairman. The new period has begun. After the elections there will be a new Chamber and the new spokesmen will look into the problems of Groningen. The similarities with the previous period, with the old Chamber, are very striking to me. In the old Chamber, the spokesmen of all political groups were very aware of the seriousness of the problem in Groningen. They were also very motivated to make improvements for the people of Groningen. I see the same thing now, and I think that is quite right. I have felt that myself, from the first day that I came to the Ministry of Economic Affairs in October, November 2012, and will remain so until the last day that I am in that Ministry. I am very aware that there is a very serious problem in Groningen. For this there is a great responsibility for the government. We must do what they are entitled to for the people of Groningen, to ensure that the misery in which they are sitting is removed, that solutions are offered and that we move as quickly as possible towards a better situation. We are dealing with a complex problem. The previous Chamber was well aware of this and the present Chamber will also be aware of it. I have just noticed some simplification of the problem with Mr Baudet, but I think it is always wise to try to return to the essence of what is going on and to ensure that real solutions are offered. I think that is what Mr Baudet is trying to do. I think that's right. As I said, I have been aware of the seriousness of the problem in Groningen from day one, and of my responsibility to do something about it, to offer solutions and to achieve solutions. The very first thing I wanted to do and did was to reduce gas extraction. There was an opinion from the State surveillance on the Mines that says: you need to get less gas, as soon as possible. At that time, however, I did not have information on which to base a precise decision: how much less, in what way? So I first had as much research as possible to ensure that the necessary information became available as soon as possible. Then we started reducing gas extraction. In the first year, 2013, gas extraction was 54 billion m. The year before, in 2012, that was 48 billion m. Now, as far as our decision-making is concerned, we are at a level of 21.6 billion m. So there has been a very drastic reduction in gas extraction during this cabinet period. That was absolutely necessary. Mrs Van Veldhoven says what others have said on several occasions: it would have been invented by the Council of State. She says: I am actually ashamed that the Council of State had to make sure that happened. That's a big mistake. There is absolutely no question of the Council of State having to take care of that. The only thing the Council of State has done at some point is, when we had already reduced extraction to 30 billion m a year, to say that we are making a provisional provision, which is aimed at 27 billion m a year. We were also working on this reduction at the time. I myself had already decided, in anticipation of the decision of the Council of State, to even go below that level. So there has been a significant reduction. It was 54 billion m3 in 2013, it was 48 billion m3 in 2012 and it is now 21.6 billion m3. This reduction is simply the result of political decision-making, decisions taken in the Cabinet, which have received support from the Chamber and which have been dealt with. A small part of it, 3 billion m3, is a result of a ruling by the Council of State. But the 3 billion would of course have been different, because we went back to 24 billion m3 immediately after the Council of State ruling. The cabinet has therefore fully realised that this reduction in gas extraction was the first thing that had to happen. We have done so and have not taken any account of the financial consequences of this. They have played no role whatsoever, at any time in the past cabinet period. We have always looked for what we could justify from the point of view of security of supply without causing major problems throughout the country in winter, with also major insecurity consequences. We have always done what was in the interests of the Groningen people, namely to reduce that gas extraction. The second point was strengthening the buildings in Groningen. As I have said before, this is a task that could not be taken seriously enough. In addition, we certainly should not have the idea that we could only do that as a sort of military operation. We've figured that out in the meantime. We have now carried out a large number of inspections and, of course, the money is available for them. We have also collected human resources to guide, organize and implement it all. Now it turns out you can't just say: 50,000 homes this and a total of 20,000 homes that. No, it's one family home every time. That family lives in that house, that has not asked for anything and gets the message that all kinds of things have to happen in the house, that it may have to leave the house or that the house should be replaced. You intervene in the life of a family, of the people who live in that house. So that must be discussed with each and every one of those people in those houses. They're entitled to that. That is something that needs to be addressed. Some spokesmen said that we should be very aware that there should also be people available to give that personal attention to the residents of those homes. That is indeed a bottleneck. There are people available for it. They do their best and work very hard. But we are looking at whether there are enough people available to do what is necessary and, if not, how we can make those people available. That reinforcement operation is a major operation that's about to start in Appingedam. There are many aspects to this. We now realise very well that it is very wise that we have drawn the direction for that whole process in the north towards us, towards the government. That direction belongs to the government, too. It is ultimately responsible for the fact that gas extraction has taken place all these years. The NAM executed it, but with our agreement. We have received most of the money and used it for Dutch society. This means that now that there are problems, we are also primarily responsible for solving those problems. It takes public direction. We set up the National Coordinator Groningen for that. This is a collaboration of municipalities in Groningen, the province of Groningen and the ministries here in The Hague. It ensures that everything that needs to be done, what the government has and must do, can also be done. That's what the National Coordinator's organization is for. The third point that I made and which I was also very convinced was that it had to be done, is to take the NAM out of the way when it comes to dealing with the damage. The situation as I found at the beginning was that someone had damage, which he then had to get reimbursed from the NAM. That meant that the person had to go to the clinch with the NAM about that. And if that person didn't agree, he'd have to see that he got his rights. That is an unequal battle between someone who hasn't asked for anything, hasn't been quipped at all and has no experience at all, and the big organization NAM, who has a lot of knowledge and experience at her disposal and who can hire unlimited further. So it had to be different. That's what we built. We are now almost in the situation that it has taken shape in such a way that the NAM is completely out. The first thing we did was set up the Center for Safe Living. This is a separate organisation which had to deal effectively with the damage cases under an independent supervisory committee and later under the supervision of the National Coordinator Groningen. I mentioned the National Coordinator. He came soon after the Safe Living Center. He got in there, too. We hadn't settled the matter clearly enough. We now have to do the following, on the proposal of National Coordinator, who has come up with this himself and has been working on it since then to get it all done. The first thing we need to do is to ensure that the determination of the damage is totally independent of the NAM. In the proposal of the National Coordinator there will be an independent damages committee, which has nothing to do with the NAM, which will determine the damage. That's going to happen in the very beginning, so there's no waiting until there's counter-expertise, until there's an arbitrator and there's all kinds of lingering procedures. No, at the very beginning someone reports damage to the independent committee, not to the Centre for Safe Living, but to the independent committee. The independent committee then ensures that the initial damage recovery has all the necessary quality. This means that a good file is produced, that all possible causes of damage are examined and that it is concluded what caused the damage and how much the damage is. This needs to be sufficiently substantiated, so that there is a very good basis for the further procedure to be brief. That's the first element. The second element is that the independent claims committee must work with a damages protocol and a manual which states exactly how to proceed. This is therefore no longer determined by the NAM, but by the National Coordinator, i.e. by the government, by the public director on behalf of the government. He'll establish that damage protocol. I shall come back to that in a moment, because he does not just do that, but in consultation with the social groups in Groningen and with the leaders in Groningen. He's been working hard on that for several months now. It is a problem that this is taking so long, but that is because he is doing his utmost to get a great deal of support for it. I also think it is necessary to obtain that great support now. I have the impression he's close to that now. So that's the damage protocol. Then there is the final step: the compensation fund. The damage is now just being compensated. There's no discussion about that at all. We don't need a compensation fund for that. Whether the NAM pays it directly or whether it goes through a fund, in all cases the damage must be compensated and in all cases the NAM must pay it. If you finally have to transfer money from the NAM, you still have to deal with the NAM. The ideal situation, also the NAM, is that this happens without the NAM. This means that the independent committee is collecting damages, a compensation protocol established by the National Coordinator Groningen and then a compensation fund that ensures that the money is transferred to the account of the people who are entitled to it. It is now time for this fund to take shape. This can be done as soon as we have been able to agree on the compensation protocol, involving, of course, the independent compensation committee, as well as the compensation fund. Once we have agreed on this, the committee and the fund can be set up. Then we have the package in full in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u123	Can the Minister indicate which timeline he sees in front of him? At what time can we see these steps realized or can we expect them to be realized?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u124	We are always very ambitious and optimistic, perhaps too optimistic. When I came to the conclusion, after I was advised, that we had to end the old way of dealing with damages by 31 March of this year, we thought there was sufficient support for a new approach. We thought that after that date, i.e. from April 1st, we could deal with the claims immediately through the new approach. It didn't turn out to be. It proved necessary to review the structure of the damage protocol from the very beginning with the people we end up doing it for. These are the people in Groningen, who feel represented by the civil society organisations there and by the leaders who are provincial and local. I have a great understanding of that, too. From that moment on, we have put a lot of energy into that. Especially the National Coordinator has been very intensive in doing so. I have, of course, also dealt with this myself, and so have my staff, but first and foremost the National Coordinator Groningen. Already working on the creation of support and reaching an outcome that is widely supported, claims remain. That's like a stone on my heart. They remained in April, in May and June. Now it's July, and some damage reports have been there for three months. That's too long. We are now trying to agree, at least before the end of this month, with the directors and with the representatives of the people in Groningen, in the social groups. We are trying to agree on a damages protocol. Immediately afterwards, we will be able to complete the whole and thus proceed according to this system. I think we can do it. I know that is what the people in Groningen, the administrators and civil society organisations want, and so does the National Coordinator. But if it doesn't work, it can't stay down anymore. Then we must think of something to deal with these claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u125	I don't have a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u126	The Minister explained the system, and when he talked about the independent damages committee, he said in an interim sense: the independent committee must determine what caused the damage. But the arbitrators and also the judge use the evidence, not to determine who caused the damage, but to assume that in a mining area the mineralist causes the damage, unless the mining company proves that it is because of something else. Is the Minister now abandoning the reversal of the burden of proof and the presumption of evidence with that independent damages commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u127	I do not want to take away from things that we have previously agreed with each other and which we think do justice to the Groningen people. What I wanted to report is this. You can find in such a claim and in its treatment that the damage was not caused by mining activities, and that was it. But you can also see at the beginning what exactly that damage is and what might have caused it. Did this happen due to changes in groundwater levels, perhaps? Is it because of the construction of a road? I'm just mentioning something. The point is that you're going to find out what's caused the damage that's happened. The people in that area are faced with damage and want to have clarity. They'd rather not go into battle. This means that it is important that, with all the expertise we can gather from such an independent damages commission, we carry out a thorough analysis, with all the relevant aspects of the damage in mind. On this basis, the independent committee shall decide on the damage to be compensated and on the amount for which such damage must be compensated. This is not, therefore, intended to diminish what we agreed earlier, but above all to ensure that we achieve a major improvement at the beginning of the whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u128	We are all waiting for this great improvement. For a reason, I am not so keen on Dutch law and on the suspicion of proof. That's exactly what the arbitrators are applying. They say: it is most likely mining damage. There's a small chance they're moles or an F-16 going through the noise barrier. Is that independent committee going to do the same, or are we going to get another whole thing outside of Dutch law, where you get A-, B-, C-, D-, and E-damage, which is or is not mining damage? If what I hear the Minister say is true, I find that a sad step backwards. I really assume that we are simply applying the Civil Code and the Mining Act, which contains the reversal of the burden of proof and the presumption of evidence. Then it is assumed that it is most likely mining damage, unless it is quite obvious that there is only one thing I mention: three support walls have been demolished, because yes, then something collapses. Can the Minister confirm to me that we simply assume that in the mining area this type of damage is mining damage and that a new committee is not being rigged to assess whether it is moles or the NAM?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u129	It is up to us not to make the problems of the people in Groningen bigger than they are and also to make the feeling of the problem in Groningen no greater than it has to be, because it is already big enough. I would like to explain that it is our intention to provide as much quality as possible with an independent committee at the beginning of the journey. We are not looking to deteriorate things, but at first we want to create as much clarity as possible in order to do justice to the people of Groningen in a convincing way. You can then try to explain that negative and say that it makes people worse again. Mrs Beckerman says: we are now moving from an earthquake of 5 on the Richter scale to 7 on the Richter scale and that is 100 times worse. You'll hear in Groningen that it's gonna be 100 times worse. I don't think it's wise to say things like that. I say to Mrs Van Tongeren through you, Madam President, that it is our intention, and in particular the National Coordinator, to deliver much more quality at the beginning of the process, to pay more attention to it, to acquire more expertise, to allow better file building and to take more account of all the relevant aspects, so that we can achieve greater clarity and thus improvement for the people of Groningen. It is by no means the intention to alter the discussions we have had on this subject in the past. Mr Baudet says: you have to send an expert, possibly a second expert, and then you have to pay for the damage. That's how we started: sending an expert there, possibly a second expert and then compensating for the damage. We had that discussion here five years ago. Then we talked about possibly a third expert and then about reversing the burden of proof. We said at the time that you shouldn't actually come to the judge with your reversal of the burden of proof, but that you should be able to go to the arbitrator already. These are former judges who make a judgment that is binding on the NAM, but which is not binding on the harmed people so that they can go to court afterwards. We then found out that this was part of the problem in Groningen: a first damage expert, a second damage expert, possibly a third, then the arbitrator and then the judge. That's what keeps it going for so long. I'm not going to say that at least I want to keep up that counter-expertise. I'm not gonna say that at least I want to keep that arbitrator alive. I am going to say that I would like the National Coordinator to complete his talks with the people in Groningen and that he will come to a broad-based damages protocol with the directors and representatives of civil society, of which I do not say in advance what should and should not be included. I'll leave that open. I await the proposal, but I would very much like us to be able to shorten the current long procedure in a responsible way, to perform as much as possible at the outset and to provide clarity to the people. The talks in Groningen about the damage protocol are now about exactly what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u130	We agreed to do the interruptions in half. I kept it like that with everyone else. Let us continue with that. Mrs Van Veldhoven says she's about to come up with an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u131	The Minister states that we should take the region to look at the arbitrator. But if the region says it wants to keep the arbitrator in, then surely the minister does?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u132	There's now an open conversation process going on from the National Coordinator. Each week he talks with representatives of the social groups and representatives of the directors. He's asked for advice from anyone who knows about it and who's involved. He also asked for legal advice from experts and the state attorney. He is now in the process of getting all the questions sorted out and discussing the results again with those directors and with those social groups. I do not think it is right for us, while we are still talking, to say what should happen or at least what should come out of it. This reduces the scope for very broad support for a different approach. I would very much like to give that a chance. So I am not going to say things in advance that make the process in Groningen difficult for the National Coordinator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u133	We find that the inhabitants no longer have a great deal of faith in the government, but rather in the arbitrators. They just speak straight. Whether or not you live within a certain contour, it's just a matter of whether you have mining damage. If so, the damages claim will be granted. I'm fine with it if it's housed somewhere else, you know, because it's not even about the shape. However, these are all former judges. At least they have the confidence of the Groningen people, confidence that is lost everywhere else. Then we shouldn't say here in advance: well, there's no room for that arbitrator anymore? If that is the wish of the region, then the Minister must also be open to the region in order to preserve those arbitrators in any form. Well, there's got to be room for that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u134	Who said there's no room for those arbiters? I have said that it is a question of shortening these lengthy procedures. You can do that by delivering much more quality in the beginning than we have done so far. The National Coordinator is talking about how you organize that. I'd like to give him space for that. He has been talking about this for a long time, because it is very difficult to regain confidence in a situation of mistrust and to gain support for a particular approach. Because supporting directors and representatives of civil society also means accepting co-responsibility for it. So I understand it's going to be difficult. But I also notice that they all want and that they all do their best to get out by the end of the month. I am not going to complicate this with negative or positive qualifications on parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u135	If I listened to the minister and I hadn't been to Groningen, I would feel that Groningen is a beautiful country where not so much is actually going on. I keep getting the feeling that the Minister thinks that the only thing that is going on is that the people who are negotiating there are not getting along very well. Unfortunately, I know that reality is different. I'd like to start with a factual question. Isn't it true that the Ministry of EZ is just negotiating with that? The Ministry's just there negotiating with the Groningers, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u136	The National Coordinator is in conversation with all involved, and of course EZ is also involved in those conversations. Everyone involved, including EZ, participates in efforts to create trust and gain broad support. The aim must be to do justice to the people of Groningen quickly, not in lengthy procedures, but above all by providing optimum quality at the outset.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u137	Then it is not true that there is a club negotiating that is not fast enough. The Minister's department is just sitting there at the table. So the Minister could speed up by saying yes to what all the other parties sitting at the table have already agreed. Because these clubs, namely the municipalities, the province, the Gasberaad and the Groninger Bottom Movement, have already jointly formulated their four pillars. These are: a responsible state, human measure, just damages and independence. I hear the Minister say: I want pace. We can just move forward by saying yes to those four pillars.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u138	I think it is very good that one or some of the parties have their starting points for that discussion. It's up to them to decide that maybe they're going out there with that, too. I think everyone has their starting points. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and I, as ministers, have them, too. I want the people of Groningen to be able to see the damage that is there quickly and that there is also support for the determination of the damage. And I want that damage soon to be compensated. In addition to that compensation, I want to do a lot of other things to do justice to the people in Groningen. So we all have our starting points. But on the basis of these principles, that consultation is now taking place. It really doesn't help if we say now that this must be done at least by sister and that we must take over from that one and that one. You must give those conversations between the different parties the opportunity to come to a conclusion in such a way that everyone feels that he is involved, that he has contributed to the end result and that that end result is something he or she dares to take for his or her responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u139	We do interruptions in two, but sometimes you'd like the minister to make a brief statement. That is why I am following up on Mrs Mulder's interruption. The Minister said in a nutshell: we're not going to record anything here, but I don't want to block anything either. Can the Minister state clearly that there will be no blockade of the Minister if the region, together with the National Coordinator Groningen, makes the proposal to allow the arbitrators to remain?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u140	I am not going to say that I am going to support a proposal from a particular group participating in the consultation in advance. No, everyone has the right to come up with her or his own points. They are all very important to me, because I want what comes out to be widely supported. So I am not going to block a single point in advance. I'm offering space to the National Coordinator. I often talk to him about how we can make this process work. I hope that, together with him, we will succeed in achieving our goal by the end of this month, namely broad support for a damages protocol combined with an independent damage assessment and possible use of a compensation fund. We must be able to follow up on the handling of the damage with broad support. That is just one of the things we are doing, but I would like to achieve this result with regard to the handling of the damage. I can best promote this by not making pre-emptive statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u141	That's very clear. The minister leaves the National Coordinator space. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u142	Mrs. Van Tongeren, you'd have had your turn in this round. Are you going to ask the same question or a completely different one?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u143	Like Mrs Van Veldhoven, I believe that this calls for a conclusion. I shall put it to the Minister: the Minister will ensure that whatever is carried in the region is in accordance with Dutch law. I would like to hear a short yes or no from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u144	I'm gonna talk to you about my own answers. My answer is that the National Coordinator in that process to arrive at a damages protocol is advised by competent lawyers, including the state attorney. I think that's very sensible of him. We must ensure that what comes out, is worn and is legally sustainable. Of course, the legal experts at the Ministry of Economic Affairs are also working constructively on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u145	The Minister says that anyone who sits at the table can come up with his or her starting points, that it is an open consultation and that he does not want to get ahead of it. But he ignores the fact that all parties at the table, except the Ministry of EZ, are already out together on the pillars. So if the Minister considers it so important that all these parties sit at the table and reach agreement, can he not support the pillars that have already been agreed upon by all these parties? These are essential, for both the municipalities, the province, the Gasberaad and the Groninger Bottom Movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u146	Mrs Beckerman is asking exactly the same question again. I'd be happy to give the same answer one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u147	I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u148	I understand very well that there are basic principles in the various parties involved in this consultation. I also think it would be very good if agreement were to be reached on this. I am not putting anything in the way of reaching that agreement. I am happy to examine all the relevant aspects. I also welcome the fact that we are all trying to reach the same conclusion in the end. I'd like to give all the room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u149	Mrs Beckerman, I ask you not to ask the same question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u150	I understand that, but I'm really gonna ask for a simple yes or no. I ask the Minister about the pillars that the Groningen have formulated. A very important pillar is the responsible state; so the state says it takes responsibility for that misery. Can the Minister say yes to that in full?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u151	Our actions have already made that clear. The legal liability lies with the NAM, the owner of the natural gas, who thus also causes and has to compensate for the damage. There's no way I'm trying to get the government out of it. The government is ultimately the one who made the NAM work there, who has benefited from the work of the NAM and has allowed Dutch society to benefit from it. Where we, as a government, have for many years assumed a great deal of responsibility for the extraction of gas, we now have a great deal of responsibility for dealing with the problems that exist. I'm doing it in such a way that the people in the area, who had to do with the NAM five years ago, will have nothing to do with the NAM. As far as I am concerned, this applies to both the determination of the damage and the establishment of the protocol and the payment of the damage. The NAM has nothing to do with that anymore towards the people. This is happening in the manner I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u152	You will continue your speech. You would have stayed with the fund. I don't know if you wanted to give any more answers or if you're going into another block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u153	I'm gonna say a few general things to paint the picture just as well. The spokesmen say we have to start solving the problems now. It has been said in different words that people have been abandoned and that it must be done. Let's find out that out of 80,000 reports of damage, 64,000 have been dealt with in agreement. Therefore, agreement has been reached between the person who reported the damage and the person who had to compensate for the damage. That's the first thing. The second is that we have reduced gas extraction from 48/54 billion to 21.6 billion cubic metres per year. Undoubtedly as a result, seismicity has decreased. Where in 2013 there were 29 palpable earthquakes, last year there were 13. 13 is still serious, but we have seen that, apart from the fact that the number of earthquakes has been more than halved, there have been no major earthquakes. In 2013 there were five earthquakes stronger than 2.5 on the Richter scale. Last year there were zero. There is an important improvement there. Then, apart from people being compensated for damages, we also had a value increase scheme. If you had €1,000 or more damage, you were compensated for that €1,000 and you received a maximum of €4,000 increase in the value of your property. Then you could put solar panels on your roof, isolate your house or install another durable heating system. In 35,400 cases, this increase of up to €4,000 has been granted. A total of 131 million has been spent on this. The first tranche was followed by a second tranche. An amount of 89 million has been made available for the second tranche for increase in value, which can now be used up. This means that, both in terms of dealing with the damage and achieving increased value and reducing the extraction of natural gas, very substantial improvements have been made. That was absolutely necessary. It is wise that we should not talk that out of it, because otherwise the people in Groningen will have the idea that nothing is being done but talk and nothing is being done. A lot of work is being done. One of the spokesmen spoke about additional costs for the new building of houses. The way in which this is to be done has now been agreed. As far as I'm concerned, it's very simple. If new construction in Groningen is more expensive as a result of earthquakes caused by natural gas extraction, then this must be compensated. A total of 117 million has now been made available for 7,300 housing units to compensate for the additional costs of new construction. I have just said that agreement has also been reached on a further approach. So a lot has happened. That was absolutely necessary. I am not at all satisfied with this, because the reinforcement operation will be a major task. We have three months of claims that, as a result of the negotiations on the damages protocol, we have not yet been able to take them off. Once the damages protocol is in place, the fund and the independent damages committee must also be there. So there is still a lot of work to be done, but it would be unwise to neglect everything that has already been done and done. I think it's a good thing that I respond as soon as possible to the introduction of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u154	I think that's a good idea. Then we will end all the spokesmen and come to the specific questions. But I see that not everyone is happy with my suggestion. So I'm gonna give Mr. Nijboer of the Labour Party some space.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u155	I won't go back on that damage protocol. I think the Chamber has been heard and those involved are negotiating it. Those arbitrators should just get there; otherwise the Chamber will come back with it. I'll come up with the damages fund. Is that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u156	I think it would be much better to work with a compensation fund. I think it would be better to ensure that the damage is ultimately compensated from a fund. This should in no way prejudice the fact that the NAM is responsible for the damage. By the way, two thirds of what the NAM pays is ultimately on the government's account, because then the government has less revenue. But we must, I think, move away from the situation that the NAM must transfer an amount for damage. Instead, there must be a fund. There are discussions at the moment about how we are going to organise it exactly. That is something we need to work on. Mr Nijboer wants a simple answer to a simple question. In the end, I answer yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u157	I am pleased about that, also because the VVD Group has kept a lot of success in the first term. I really think it is a good thing that the compensation fund is going to be there, of course with the condition that the Empire will pay and tell us about it on the NAM. Of course, this has to be reported to the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u158	I see it not so much as the stories on the NAM, but those are technical issues. In such a fund, money must come from the NAM. How this is done in exactly the technical way and in what regularity, we will see again. I think that the compensation fund is a very good conclusion of an independent damage assessment and a damage protocol made by the NCG. He's in charge of the whole process. The payment then follows from a fund and not from the NAM. I think that that is a good picture that can contribute to what the NCG is doing now, namely to gain broad support for that damage protocol. Perhaps it would be a good idea to respond to Mrs Van Veldhoven's concept of damage. Mr Graus also mentioned this. They said we should talk about mining damage and not about damage caused by gas extraction. There's really no misunderstanding about that. The law only deals with damage caused by mining. It may be caused by the extraction of gas, by salt extraction, by the use of geothermal energy, by storage in Languedoc-Roussillon or by the injection of production water. These are all activities that are part of the mining industry. If it causes damage, the causer must also compensate it. There should be no misunderstanding about that. Before I come to the questions of the various spokesmen, I would like to comment briefly on Mrs Beckerman's contribution. She says: we first assumed a maximum of 5.0 on the Richter scale and now we have to assume a maximum of 7.0 on the Richter scale. That's a hundred times worse. Originally, the line was that you had to take into account an earthquake of between 4.0 and 7.0 on the Richter scale. That was originally translated into a maximum of 5.0. Now it is said that it is not so much about the strength of the earthquake, but about the ground acceleration that is resulting from it. How does that work out in the end? The KNMI has analyzed all of this and has come up with a new version of the seismic map, showing the seismic threat. The KNMI indicates that you can choose a different approach, not 5 but between 4 and 7. If you translate that into the ground acceleration, then there appears to be little or no difference between what we did in 2017 and what we did in 2016. This is the last Dutch practical directive (NPR) adopted in 2015 and the new NPR that we will adopt in 2017. The 2015 Directive was based on a fundamental acceleration of 0.36g, with apologies for the professional term. The new NPR for 2017 is based on a ground acceleration of 0.24g and that is significantly less. This leads to a better situation, with fewer risks, which means less reinforcement is needed. The picture is that for the detached houses the comparison between the old and the new NPR really works out well. What needs to be done about these homes is less drastic than we first feared. It is also about fewer homes involved. We also see that the reinforcement measures to be implemented in row houses or under-one houses can be carried out in a simple way, with less nuisance for the people. Above all, we can do the things we need from the outside. A new situation has recently grown, as there is much more information available and much less natural gas is being extracted. All this is processed in a risk card and is then worked out in an NPR. So that really leads to an improvement, and we should be very pleased with that, I think, because this reinforcement is a very costly, but above all a very profound task for the individual people, including in their relations with each other, of which examples have also been mentioned for the people in a street and in a village, which comes under pressure in all kinds of ways, and for the area as a whole. If that is less serious than we thought, as a result of more available information and the measures we have taken so far, we should be pleased, I think. It is therefore an improvement for the people in Groningen and not something that is becoming a hundred times worse. Mrs Van Tongeren has mentioned many of the points I have already raised. She also asked what I'd do if Shell and Exxon didn't want to win. According to her, I said in this house that the other gas companies would insist on taking over. I can't find that line of mine. Perhaps Mrs Van Tongeren would like to present it to me, so that we can take a look at it together. It is true that the gas that is in Groningen is owned by Shell and Exxon and that they are now winning that gas. They won that gas when 80 billion m a year could be extracted, and then 48 and 54. There is now 21.6 billion m to be won. I have no indication at this time that it could be less than 20 m. The last message I have is that 21 billion m a year corresponds to what the SodM advises. That's the minimum I need to win to keep people from getting cold in the winter. I do not know anything about less than 20 billion m at the moment and I have not heard that if less than 20 billion m could be won, that would have consequences for the interest of the companies that have been winning that gas for many years and have been making good money from it for many years. So I do not have the information that Mrs van Tongeren apparently has, although I do speak with them regularly. I did that this week, and I will do it again next week. Let us look at how things are developing and let us do the things that are in the general interest and for which we stand on the basis of what is happening. Mrs Van Tongeren said that the KNMI's maps are not accurate. The current map material has a special shape. You can click on the map at any place. Then you get exactly the information for that place at your disposal. Mrs Van Tongeren says that some houses are not on them and that this is difficult for people. Even parts of villages or streets wouldn't be on it. I think it would be a good idea, in response to Mrs Van Tongeren's comment, to look at whether the latest maps have been used, which give people the most clarity. On the map that is now available, you can at least click on any place you are interested in. Of course that will be your own home in the first place. You can click on it and then you can see the information that is relevant to you. Following Mrs Van Tongeren's remark, I will be the up-to-date one and check the optimum accuracy of these cards again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u159	Are you going to report to the Chamber on this separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u160	No, I think this is just a lead I'm getting from this meeting with the Chamber and then I have to do something with it. I have a regular opportunity to inform the Chamber about developments. I will then, if necessary, provide information on this point. However, I cannot constantly write separate letters about all the things I am doing. I will ensure that the relevant information and information required by the Chamber become available to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u161	I welcome the Minister's commitment to monitor this. This is part of the new Environment Act. The BAG Act (Basic Administration Addresses and Buildings) requires the land registry to ensure that all these objects are digitally unlocked. They're working hard on it. In addition to the fact that I want to know, there is also a greater consequence. The KNMI used that information to see how many properties need to be reinforced. I'm not an expert, so I can't judge if I just happened to be given the four places where it doesn't add up. However, if it is not true in more places, it has consequences for the work of the KNMI. In addition to the commitment to check that the land register information is correct, I would also like, if that is the case, to receive a commitment that the KNMI will look again at how many buildings need to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u162	That is ultimately the translation of the NPR. The KNMI card will be converted into the new NPR. That makes it clear what needs to be done in every place. However, I am highly recommended. We're doing our job as best we can. We make mistakes. The NCG makes mistakes. Everyone makes mistakes. We need to learn from those mistakes, we need to try to fix them, and we need to try to prevent them next time. If Mrs Van Tongeren finds anything and gives it to us, we will take advantage of it if necessary to correct those mistakes. Next time, we'll try to avoid those mistakes. I appreciate getting that information provided. I come to making two tonnes available for legal proceedings. I have already said that I do not find it conducive to finding solutions to the problems of the people of Groningen in order to become even more involved in legal proceedings. With the reversal of the burden of proof and the arbitrator, we have focused on preventing legal proceedings. The same is happening now with the damages protocol and the independent damages committee. By focusing much more on quality at the beginning of the journey, we want to try to avoid this. There's no point in spending money on legal procedures. The Chamber made two tonnes available for this amendment. This means that that money is available to the Minister of Economic Affairs. That would therefore be the year in which the money could be spent for this purpose only halfway through this year. I will not do that as a outgoing minister myself, but my successor may do so. I'd like to leave that to her or him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u163	We have heard before that the people in the region should be involved, autonomously and with the right to self-determination, so that they can think for themselves how they want to deal with this. People go to court and they get the same thing there with a lot of regularity. The Chamber amended the Economic Affairs budget by a majority. The Minister insists on blocking the small sum of two tonnes. Even Mr Baudet looked it up: more than 200 billion came from Groningen. The Minister is not prepared to make those two tonnes available. I really don't understand why, when you see what other amounts went there. Why are we afraid of our own rule of law? Why should people not, in one case, go to court because it gives them the feeling that they end up in court to get their rights? Why is the Minister blocking it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u164	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u165	I'm not afraid of $20,000. As a result of lower gas prices and less gas extraction in Groningen, the government saw gas revenues fall from 15 billion to 2 billion. You've never heard of that. I'm really not afraid of $20,000. I am concerned about what I have just said and what I am not going to repeat. I'd like to save the people in Groningen from procedures. I'm committed to preventing it. There has been a reversal of the burden of proof. An arbitrator has been set up. The arbitrator shall be bound by the NAM. We are going to put much more energy into the beginning of the process, so that we can avoid longer procedures. That does not mean that I am going to finance legal procedures that parties can run against each other. That is why I do not do that, but the money is in the budget. It can be issued between 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2017. It doesn't need to be published. Whether it is published depends on my successor or successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u166	I really do not understand why the Minister wants to create a form of class justice in Groningen. People who happen to have money or good legal aid insurance can go to court. They do. Everyone in the Netherlands must agree with me that the Minister has the right to go to court and put his case before him. This minister is blocking a tip the Chamber wants to make available. Hopefully his successor will be willing to do this. The Minister has done business well, but I find it so incredibly disappointing that he is afraid of a few Groningers who would go to court with a lawyer once. It's a real shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u167	I am absolutely not afraid of a few Groningers and not of Groningers who want to go to court. I think people have a right to go to court. I think it's my job to keep people from being forced to go to court. I think it's a good thing that there's a reversal of the burden of proof when you get to court. I think it makes sense that in Groningen, where there's so much damage, you assume that damage is caused by mining activity. I also welcome the fact that there is an arbitrator and that people do not have to go to court but can go to that arbitrator. That is form-free, which makes it easier and cheaper for people. The decision of that arbitrator shall be binding on the NAM. I like that, too. The judgment shall not be binding on the claims reporters. That's all fine. So I'm not afraid of anything. The only thing I do not want is for us to make life unnecessarily difficult for each other through legal procedures and, as a result, to make the problem, which is already serious in Groningen, even worse. I would very much like to avoid legal proceedings by acting as a government in such a way that people do not feel compelled to stand up for their rights and feel justice. That's what I'm committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u168	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u169	Mrs. Van Tongeren...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u170	You have come to Mr Wassenberg's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u171	No, Madam President. I'm just checking to see if I left anything else from Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u172	Not on my list, but you may have heard more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u173	You're right. Your list checks out. So I have to go to Mr Wassenberg. Mr Wassenberg says that I want to keep the SodM cramped in hand. I didn't want to hold the SodM in my own hand at all. The supervisory authorities at all ministries are in line with the policy making. So at the Ministry where the policy is made, there is also the supervisory body. The Security Research Council has said that the position of the SodM needs to be organized more remotely and that that position needs to be strengthened. Well, that's what we did. We have made sure that the possibilities for me to give clues are strongly framed. We make sure that the SodM can decide for itself how it does the research and cannot be directed by me. A number of other things have been formally strengthened in the position of the SodM. I would like to point out that all this has happened, but it was not necessary because until now I have not been able to influence the SodM in any way or have been told how to do it or have been prevented from going out with things or having direct contact with the Chamber. That was all reality in practice, but what we have done now is to formally regulate it. I think this is good. There's nothing against that. We are therefore also implementing the recommendation of the Security Research Council. I think that we have created a further formal strengthening of the position of the SodM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u174	The motion passed was about breaking up the various interests that now lie with a ministry. The OVV has explicitly stated that it would be better if the security interests of the Groningers were invested in a different ministry than in the Ministry of EZ. That's what my motion was about. That is not being addressed and I want a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u175	Of course, nothing is going to be changed in this cabinet period. That's obvious. There's gonna be a new cabinet period. That is currently under negotiation. There will be a new coalition agreement. Fine-tuning will also take place as far as ministries are concerned. In this cabinet period, we did it the way we did it. I think that has been a very logical and good way. We only have ten real ministries in the Netherlands. One is responsible for the care, the other for the infrastructure and another for what is going on in Groningen, being the Ministry of Economic Affairs. We have been very conscientious about this responsibility. Where there was still formal improvement possible in parts, we ensured this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u176	Perhaps I could advise the Minister to read the motion once. I read out the operative part of the motion: calls on the government to come up with a plan to invest the various interests involved in the mining of minerals in different ministries. It doesn't say it all must have happened before August 1st. They're asking the Ministry to come up with a plan. That's what the motion is about, and that's what this cabinet can do. That plan can be implemented by the upcoming cabinet. The minister says we have a missionary cabinet. That's right, but we just have a new room. And that room asked for a plan. That's a plan the Minister should have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u177	I replied to that motion from the Chamber. That is the position of the cabinet on this. That is the response I can give to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u178	In itself, this reaction is consistent with the letter sent by the Minister. In that letter, however, he states at the same time: in his response of 2 April 2015, the cabinet indicated that it would follow all the recommendations of the OVV. All of them! This is an important one. The OVV said two years later: this has not yet been done; EZ is still going on everywhere and it really has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u179	It is important to have the responsibility for security and supervision at one ministry in one hand. When we work on this security, we constantly gain experience. Such monitoring shall be carried out on an ongoing basis. If you are working on this in one ministry, you can quickly exchange it with each other and make sure that either improvements are made in the policy or improvements are made in the supervision. I think it is very important for the safety of mining activities in Groningen, in general terms, to take advantage of the experience gained by both the SodM and the policy makers, the licence providers. If you tear that apart, it's at the expense of security, and I feel responsible for that safety. The answer we gave in the letter, the response to that motion, is the reaction of the cabinet, the whole cabinet, I say, to avoid misunderstandings. The position of the SodM was already materially unaffected, but now it is also materially strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u180	It's hard to get letters like that and promises like that. There's a report from the Security Research Council. The cabinet has said that it takes over everything. It is quite clear: all these interests, all these hats, the gas building must be put on the shovel, but it does not. I read a different sentence in the letter: the cabinet has always taken the security concerns and the sense of security as its starting point in its actions. Always. It goes back many years. But the Minister has even apologized on this very point. We have the Groningen people's office, and that doesn't apply to this minister alone...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u181	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u182	That's almost impossible, isn't it? The minister says he takes over everything, but then he doesn't. He apologizes and then says that the cabinet has always taken security as a starting point, while there are just excuses made to the Groningen people. How are we supposed to operate like this? I can't do that, can I, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u183	Mr Nijboer cites three things at once. I'll be happy to respond to all three things. Firstly, Mr Nijboer says that an apology has been made. I have indicated that, while gas has been extracted over many years, it is now clear to everyone that the risks posed by this gas extraction to the Groningers have not been sufficiently taken into account. I am currently Minister of Economic Affairs. If anything goes wrong from the government for a longer period of time, I have to respond on behalf of the government at some point. That's what I did in the terms I chose at the time. Secondly, Mr Nijboer said, in a nutshell, that the Chamber has declared that the gas building must be destroyed, or that the Security Research Council has said so. That was not an initiative of the OVV, it was my own initiative. When no one was talking about the gas building, I said that I think it is important, since the situation has changed with regard to the extraction of natural gas in Groningen, to look again at how we set up the gas building. How did we do that in the sixties? What were the considerations? How does that work in the years 2010-2020? What changes are desirable? This concerns not only what we consider desirable, but also what the other parties, Shell and Exxon, consider desirable. That needs to be built up. The discussions on this have begun and I can assure the Chamber that these are talks in which the government really has to take the utmost care, because there are great interests at stake and so you are being countered at a high level. I find it useful to look at the gas building. That is why it is being looked at again on my own initiative. Thirdly, Mr Nijboer says that the cabinet always claims that it has taken the safety of the people in Groningen as its starting point. We have not only said that, but also very serious and done so. We are concerned about what we can do for the safety of the people in Groningen. This concerns the real insecurity and the legitimate sense of insecurity and the threat to the future that people in Groningen feel. We had to do something about that. We have done so in the ways that I described at the beginning: firstly, reducing gas extraction, secondly, strengthening the housing, thirdly, completing the settlement of the damage independently of the NAM. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u184	Minister, I would like to take a look at the time and your answer. You are carefully and comprehensively answering the Chamber. This means that there may still be a lot of time left for the answer, although I have noted a lot of questions put by the Chamber as being dealt with. Do you think you can answer the rest of the questions in 15 minutes? Otherwise I'm going to suspend for dinner break in a few minutes, because we in this house also have rules for our support staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u185	Well, 15 minutes. I'll do my best, but I think it's strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u186	I'm gonna ask you to do that anyway. And if it doesn't work, we'll just suspend. Then it's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u187	Okay, I'm gonna try. Now and then a little bit down the bend, but that's under your leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u188	You have arrived at Mr Wassenberg's questions on gas-free new construction and renewable energy. Those are the questions of him who is still open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u189	Mr Wassenberg believes that we should move quickly towards a level of 12 billion m of natural gas. That would be totally irresponsible for two reasons. First of all, with a level of 12 billion m you cannot guarantee that there is heat in the Dutch homes, offices, hospitals, nursing homes and so on. That's just impossible. We are now at 21.6 billion m and 21 billion m. That's the minimum that comes from the analysis of GTS. It is also in line with the recommendations of State supervision of the Mines, which has also said that if you go below that level, you will then get too large changes from year to year, depending on the temperature in a year, and that these changes will lead to insecurity. Then there's more seismicity. What we do is what the government always does: we have to find the balance. So we're looking for that balance. We are looking first and foremost at the safety of the people in Groningen. Secondly, we do not want to create insecurity throughout the country because the supply of heat in the form of natural gas is falling. You have to make sure that you weigh both cases against each other, where you sit at the lowest possible level in terms of security of supply. Then you also immediately have the level at which you prevent as many fluctuations as possible. That's what came out. That's what I explained and defended. The Council of State will look into this later, because there have been appeals from both sides. One says you have to win more and the other says you have to win less. I think the right balance has been made, that this is the result of the right balance. That means that 12 billion m is separate from reality. Mr Wassenberg asks when we are going to arrange for no gas connection to be built for new buildings. We have now arranged for the automatic dismantling of the building as a house to be connected to the gas grid. We are now continuing to fill in the Energy Agenda. Every part of this Energy Agenda, where all kinds of things have to change in order to make the overall transition from fossil to renewable energy, needs to be further developed and completed. This will be discussed on several occasions, the first time the Heat Act has been amended. Then we will also be able to talk about the first step we are taking in removing the obligation, the follow-up steps that come into view and how and when they can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u190	Mr Wassenberg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u191	I have a very short question. We had a hearing last week on gas-free new construction. Everyone agreed, housing associations but also gas networks, that it should be regulated as soon as possible and that it would be a golden opportunity to do so in new buildings. It was said that capital destruction would be if we were to build gas pipelines at homes now, perhaps to demolish them in ten, fifteen years' time. In this respect, everyone would be helped if it were to be regulated as quickly as possible. I mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u192	That's clear. Mr Wassenberg, this has been reported on. I would ask the Minister to respond briefly, because this is another debate you are having in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u193	I have brought the removal of the legal obligation to connect houses to gas, at the first opportunity. That is the legislative amendment that can soon be dealt with by the Chamber. I am available to discuss the follow-up steps. I'm working on it myself. If the Chamber has views on this and would like to make guiding statements, I would very much like to hear it in the debate on the Heat Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u194	The questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u195	Mr Bosman said that the damage protocol should be taken care of and that care should be guaranteed. He asked me if I could confirm that. I would like to confirm this without any hesitation. He expressed understanding and appreciation for the difficult decisions that Groningen directors have to make. I share that very much with him. In fact, I also think that those who stick their necks out by directing civil society organisations in Groningen and are now talking to directors and the National Coordinator also deserve great appreciation that they have the courage to do so. So I share that feeling with Mr Bosman. Mr Bosman asked about the advantages and disadvantages of the fund. Actually, I don't see any major drawbacks to a compensation fund. If you stick to the principle that those who cause damage have to compensate for that damage and thus also fill the fund and then make sure that the damage is reimbursed from that fund, I think that with such a simple system you only have the advantage that the people in Groningen really see that the NAM is out of the picture and that you have no disadvantages. Mr Bosman said that the reinforcement operation raises contradictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u196	Mr Bosman has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u197	My question is about the fund. I was very interested in that, too, and then I took a swing at it. I'd rather say no first and then yes, because I want to make sure it works and it's true. I agree with the Minister that it can work well in principle. I agree with the Labour Party, I think I agree with the whole Chamber. However, we should not be in front of a bureaucratic monstrosity in a moment, and we would say, "Oh, we should have dealt with this differently." My concern was much more in the way it's going to be carried out. What are the disadvantages of that? What risks do you run with all these cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u198	I fully agree with Mr Bosman. He can't say yes to something he doesn't know how it's designed. I understand that he shares with me the idea that the compensation fund could be a good contribution to bringing out the NAM for the people in Groningen. The precise effect given to it must show whether it is acceptable. That applies to Mr Bosman, and it applies to me. So we'll have to work it out. Mr Bosman will then assess the outcome, as will the other members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u199	Minister, I'm gonna send a little. You have had a lot of questions, but you have now come to Mrs Van Veldhoven's questions about the interior facades.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u200	Almost, because I would like to respond to one more thing from Mr Bosman. He is not the only one who has pointed this out; everyone else has said it. There are contradictions felt by the people in the area around the huge reinforcement operation we are engaged in. In fact, oppositions are also being created. One house is thus strengthened, the other house is strengthened, another house is not strengthened. The house that is not reinforced is located in a neighborhood with nicer houses. One has to deal with a loss of value that may be caused by this. I know that there are a lot of frictions imaginable around the strengthening process. That's a really difficult process. That is why I am glad that there is public direction on it and that the National Coordinator is now working on it in Appingedam. We'll learn from that, too. Mistakes are also being made that we learn from again. I share the critical comments made by the spokesmen on this issue. I am very aware of that, too. As you said, Madam President, I came to Mrs Beckerman's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u201	I think you answered her questions when I looked at my list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u202	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u203	Maybe not satisfactory, but in terms of subjects. You have stayed and I am going to make a bit of a fuss about Mrs Van Veldhoven's question about the interior facades. Several Members have asked questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u204	I think I have responded to Mrs van Veldhoven's comment with what I just said to Mr Bosman. I am very aware of what she is describing, namely that there are contradictions in that area. I know a lot of other variants. With all our good intentions, that's what happens. That's inevitable, but we need to do that backup. We really need to do just the reinforcement that is needed, so as not to burden people too much and also not to spend unnecessary money. That is now a question of effect. We're not gonna leave that to a stranger, but we're gonna take it as a government ourselves for our hood. This is what our joint organization is doing, which has formed the provinces, the municipalities and the ministries. That's the National Coordinator, who's working on managing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u205	I understand the Minister's reasoning that we cannot strengthen the whole of Groningen. On the other hand, I felt, I think, wide in the Chamber that we understand what the people in Appingedam were dealing with. The Minister says, "We'll get back to you." I would like to ask him when he will come back to it, because it is a question that people rightly want to answer. It will still be quite a puzzle to find that answer, but it may be good to say that we will come back to this and when.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u206	There isn't one answer. There is also no situation where everyone is satisfied. It is a complicated situation in which we must act as transparently as possible, as well as fairly and as fairly as possible. That's what the public direction should do, in the form of the National Coordinator. So there is not one answer I can give and not one moment I can mention. It is the whole process that we must go through in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u207	The Minister is right about that. Sometimes it is also a matter of all kinds of puzzle pieces that come together in Groningen. You're talking about shrinkage, you're talking about strengthening, you're talking about damage handling, you're talking about sustainability and you're talking about housing of all kinds of different types. Not every municipality has all the expertise that is needed for this in its own house, while fast and good handling can benefit people who do have that expertise and who have done these things more often. Can we, together with the NCG and the provinces, at least ensure that municipalities have access to this expertise, in order to find the solutions that we can find with each other in such an area, together with the inhabitants, as well and as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u208	Sure, that absolutely needs to be organized. This whole operation does not only have disadvantages for people, because it also makes the houses more beautiful and better in a number of cases. If people want to do something in their homes, it might be easy to combine them on an individual level. You can also make improvements in a neighbourhood and a street, as we are going to try in Appingedam. The National Coordinator is trying to combine as many things as possible, allowing you to put puzzle pieces together. We certainly need to learn from our experiences. We must ensure that the expertise needed is available to all municipalities. This is an important task for the National Coordinator, which is also formed by those municipalities. Mrs Van Veldhoven's focus is therefore justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u209	My question arises from the same Appingedam case. The National Coordinator Groningen is able to indicate that about €7,000 is available from different pots for measures, for example in the area of sustainability. We've been talking about the fleece house before. At one house, the roof might have to be off, but not on the other. What do you do? Are you gonna put solar panels on that right away and isolate your homes? The residents, who are sometimes private owners, do not know where they stand. That makes it very complicated, namely when next to your house a house is built completely new, where everything is on and on, which makes your house relatively less valuable. These are the specific concerns of people we heard in Groningen. The question then is: what is the balancing framework? Would the Minister like to take a closer look at this, together with the National Coordinator Groningen and, of course, with the municipality itself? People are already suffering from earthquakes. They already have problems and then they go even further backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u210	People are not supposed to go backwards, they are meant to go forward. I already told you, if the damage is €1,000-plus, you will be reimbursed €1,000-plus, plus up to €4,000 for increase in value. We are talking about houses where there is no damage, but reinforcement. 40 million has been released from EZ's budget. BZK has made arrangements that, as Mrs Mulder says, €7,000 per house will be available. These are all things that are done to ensure that folds are smoothed as much as possible and that people are faced. We do so both at individual level and at the level of streets and neighbourhoods. The municipalities of course play a very important role in this, both from their own responsibility and from their co-responsibility within the organisation of the National Coordinator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u211	If the Minister has further research on what such a compensation fund should look like, is he prepared to consider what the role of a compensation fund might be in facilitating these kinds of developments? We now have the first district in Appingedam where this is going to happen so widely. Can the Minister outline what this means for other renewal projects, for whole cities, villages and residential areas? This is going to have so much impact on people that we really need to know what we're doing, otherwise those people will be the child of the account and nobody is waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u212	I'm very motivated to do extra things, except damages and other than reinforcements. In total, thanks to a relatively smaller contribution from the province of Groningen, nearly 100 million have become available for Economic Board Groningen. I have already indicated that more than 200 million have become available for increase in value and that more than 100 million have already been paid out for higher new construction costs. I have indicated that for sustainability an amount of €7,000 per house will be available here, in the way I have just described. So I'm very motivated to do good things for the Groningen people in all kinds of ways, but I don't want to make any statements about that compensation fund right now. It is important to bear in mind the main objective of that fund, namely that those people are not compensated for their damage by the NAM, but by a fund, so that they really have nothing to do with the NAM at all. I am not going to make any statements about further specialities and complications, because it does not serve that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u213	Mr President, you were quite right when you said that my questions had not been answered as you wished, but you were not quite right when you said that all my questions had been answered, because one question that is very important to me is what the Minister thinks of the fact that he was flagged by the United Nations yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u214	Okay. Clear. We're going to ask the Minister to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u215	The United Nations has given the Netherlands quite a touch. Doesn't he find it incredibly embarrassing and painful that the United Nations should do this and that the Groningen had to set the course for the United Nations to achieve their justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u216	I do not have the English-language text of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights on hand, but it is not the case that we are on our fingers. It has been said that we need to make sure that we pay for the damage and that we strengthen it; all that sort of thing we are doing right now. The United Nations Commission on Human Rights has made a statement on this. Those are the things we're doing and they're still going to happen. I didn't get "tapping fingers" out of that. It has been said that we must take measures to ensure the physical safety and mental health of people, to guarantee the safety of their homes, to compensate people who suffer damage and to prevent, as much as possible, damage in the future. That is what has been said, and these are all things that we are committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u217	If you'll allow me, I'd like to go back to those fleece houses, because I still have a question about that. During our work visit to Appingedam, we saw that a lot of houses are being completely rebuilt in that area, while those interior facades are only being reinforced on the outside. Nothing else is being done about these apartments, as far as we understand. I can very well imagine that these people will have to deal with loss of value, because everyone will immediately think: yes, wait a minute, I don't want that house; I want one of those other houses. The saleability will also deteriorate and there will be depreciation. Can't the minister arrange something for these people in the form of a guarantee scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u218	With regard to the housing market, we are taking a number of measures, which should ultimately lead to the normal functioning of the housing market there. If people get into trouble in individual cases, then there are arrangements for that. If problems arise on a wider scale, the National Coordinator will pay attention to them and consider what could possibly be done about them. We take the problems experienced by the people in that area very seriously and do everything we consider necessary. If improvements are still possible, then we certainly do not take a negative view of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u219	I don't know if the Minister's gonna bring up the wave quakes anytime soon. That also seems to be a danger. If you only strengthen houses on the outside and there are five or six houses in between, then a wave Earth quake can still happen in the middle buildings. I would have liked to have an answer to that. I will come back to my first question: we have to control the government. How can we assume that this will be well arranged for these people in the future? If a family moves in ten years' time, there must be a good guarantee for the selling party and also for the purchasing party that comes in such a neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u220	A pilot has been introduced into the area. About 50 homes have been looked at: if you buy them, what can that mean for the housing market? That pilot has been evaluated and a follow-up is now being given. Particular attention is paid to the people who had signed up for that pilot. There were about 50 of them whose application was not accepted. Particular attention will be paid to it and consideration will be given to how a follow-up can be given to the project to buy up houses. This is one of the measures we are taking to ensure that the housing market ultimately functions as well as in other similar parts of the country and that individual or collective solutions are found for specific problems. I'm getting to the wave movement. I do not decide in The Hague what should or should not be done about a row of houses. That's determined by experts. There is a great deal of research on this. Based on the best knowledge that emerges from those investigations, those things are done that are necessary for the safety of the people there. All aspects are taken into account: intermediate homes, final homes, detached houses and two-under-one-hood. We have actually seen all available experts in the world in order to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u221	Thanks for the commitment...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u222	No, we're doing interrupts in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u223	Yes, but this is very essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u224	I know. It's all very essential, but I'm moving in anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u225	I've been quiet all night. Then the soup and the potatoes will have to wait, but I would like to thank the Minister for the promise...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u226	No, we've agreed to do two-way interruptions, Mr Graus. You may express your thanks in your second term. I'd like to ask the Minister to continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u227	But I haven't asked for anything today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u228	You asked two questions. I ask the Minister to continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u229	Yeah, but it was about two subjects the minister was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u230	Mr Graus, I asked the Minister to continue with the reply. Everyone has an interruption in two...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u231	Madam President, it is about human lives, with all due respect!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u232	Thank you for this notion. I hadn't noticed. I'll give the Minister the floor. There are three further questions of the Chamber: the question of zero measurement for the small fields, the question of whether the €1,500 was adjusted and the question of when the knowledge programmes on the subsurface are ready, I understand. May I ask you to answer those questions? I would then like to suspend, after which I would like to give the Chamber the opportunity to put questions and put motions in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u233	I'll start with the clean slate. It has been said that if we go to another system for the settlement of damages and there are also cases where it has been established whether the person who recorded the damage considers that the damage was not caused by mining activities, then compensation must nevertheless be granted. This allowance is in many cases up to €1,500 and in some other cases up to €5,500. In a still fairly large number of about 750 complex cases it can be even more. It's determined individually. The clean slate operation is the fruit of the National Coordinator's commitment, who has discussed it intensively with all concerned. It is therefore not aligned with the NCG; it comes from the tube of the NCG. Mr. Chairman. Help me with the other two questions, if you'd like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u234	The zero measurement for the small fields.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u235	And the last one, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u236	The latter could perhaps be better formulated by Mrs Van Veldhoven. I have here: underground knowledge programs. You know better what that's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u237	I'm gonna try. I think a zero reading for small fields is valuable. In my opinion, we should not give the people who live near small fields the feeling that their problems are similar to the problems of the people who live near, or on the large Groningen field. The Groningen Field is one of the largest gas fields in the world. Those little fields are very, very smaller. So the problem is very different there too. But there is concern. In order to determine whether something is happening, a representative zero measurement can really make a good contribution. The starting point is, therefore, that there will also be a representative zero measurement when new requests for extraction or modified requests for extraction are discussed. Then there's the knowledge program.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u238	Let's finish the subject of zero measurement first, Minister. Mrs Mulder would like to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u239	When will this zero reading be fully operational? The Minister is talking about a representative zero measurement. But can residents still participate in a zero measurement with perhaps a discount? Or can they simply have a zero measurement that is financed entirely by the person who gets the licence to win the gas? That way, they can all have pictures taken of their homes. Because there's so much distrust because of everything that's happened in Groningen. There is so much distrust among homeowners elsewhere in the country when gas is extracted under their homes. And I get that, because it's just gonna be your house. I can imagine you'd want to get a zero reading. One may not just want a representative zero measurement. Perhaps, after a number of representative zero measurements, the Minister should consider whether such a zero measurement should be made for each house. Then the resident will know where he is and the holder of the authorisation will know where he is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u240	It's wise not to make the problems bigger than they are. With these small fields the problem is really very different than with the large Groningenveld. Those problems that occur in Groningen are caused by the size of the field. That is not the case with those small fields. But it is indeed useful to do what is necessary there. In my opinion, representative zero measurements are sufficient for that. We can also, on the basis of the experience we gain from this, consider whether it can be left to do so or whether there is still a need for additions. But right now I have no clues that lead me to think that we should do more than a representative zero measurement. If we do too much, I think we create unrest instead of avoiding unrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u241	Can I ask the Minister to see how we deal with this as of January 1st? Is everyone happy about that? Or should we change it after all? How many of these representative measurements have been made? I would like that to be looked at more closely in the future. Because I understand very well that there is this distrust. It'll just be your house. Then I think, "Let's just record it." If nothing happens, nothing happens. Then we all know that it just went well. Then we know that too. That's very good for everyone, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u242	I told you how I want to deal with that. Mrs Mulder asks if I would like to indicate the state of play and what my preliminary findings are as of 1 January. I'd like to be willing to do that, so I'll tell her. Mrs Van Veldhoven and perhaps Mrs Mulder also spoke about the knowledge programme. You said, Madam President, that I had to go into that as well. There are two paths of knowledge. One knowledge pathway is 100% funded by Shell. In another knowledge pathway, we gather experts from around the world to follow a whole knowledge programme, comment and guide. I talked to those experts. We have really had to make an effort to find people from the world of sufficient level who have not yet been involved in Groningen. Almost everyone was already involved with Groningen. But I've found four very capable people for this. They've started their work. So they will also run the independent knowledge programme. In doing so, we want to ensure that we are not dependent on what the NAM provides for technical information. I have confidence in the NAM, but the point is that it is wise that the government not only receives the NAM relevant technical information from the party concerned, but also from independent parties. That program's running. On the basis of a decision that we have made very consciously, we have not merged these two routes. The Security Research Council wants to merge them, but we have deliberately decided not to do so, also in accordance with what SodM thinks of it. In a situation where there is mistrust, you should not allow the independence in the eyes of the Groningen people to be influenced by a large funding of the Shell. So we have a government-funded independent knowledge program with an expert, scientific committee above it. There is also a very relevant research programme funded by Shell. We're gonna leave those two things next to each other. That was my explanation of this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u243	We have indeed discussed the merger in an earlier debate. I have been persuaded by the Minister that it is better to guarantee that independence. I think we all have an interest in that. I have two questions. The SodM recommends that the knowledge programme also play a role in the independent evaluation of the subsurface models. Is the Minister following the advice of the SodM? I also asked for the implementation of my adopted motion on people who, at some point, are no longer able to handle this whole paperwork. Perhaps the Minister would prefer to return to that in the second term. We spoke again in Groningen with Stut-en-Steun, an organization that takes care of it. But it can be done in several ways. I had asked for an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u244	Mrs Van Veldhoven raises two further points. I cannot answer the question about the subsurface models in relation to the research programme I was just talking about. I will send that reply to the Chamber in second time or in writing. With regard to the support of people, the organisation Stut-en-Steun was created from Groningen. This organisation has received a grant of €500,000 from the National Coordinator for this year, funded from public money, which allows it to do what is needed. We will see how that develops and whether that is sufficient. There is a need for vigilance on this point. I have already confirmed to Mrs Van Veldhoven and others that it is important that people who are confronted with reinforcements at once and are personally involved in all kinds of ways should receive the necessary social support. Both issues should contribute to regaining the confidence of the Groningen people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u245	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment on this point. Sometimes it's in very small things whether it's walking on people's feet or not. That paperwork could be the last straw. I would like to thank the Minister for having taken an explicit interest in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u246	I should like to comment on what Mr Graus, Mr Nijboer and Mr Baudet have said. But I was given three questions, and I was allowed to answer them, and now I keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u247	Thank you, Minister. I suggest we suspend until 8:45. Instead of 1 minute 45 seconds, I give the spokesmen 2 minutes, because a number of motions will be tabled. In that I am generous again. The Minister will then be given the opportunity to answer the questions as carefully as he has just tried to do while I was chasing him, because I also have to abide by certain rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u248	We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber. Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks is the first speaker. She has two minutes' speaking time, including the tabling of any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u249	Mr. Chairman. I have the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Groningers greatly appreciates the approach of the arbitrators and the counter-experts and that this helps restore confidence;]] [[Whereas the number of notifications to the arbitrators is high and is increasing;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the arbitrators and the counter-experts receive adequate support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the handling of the mining damage by the NAM has often gone badly and the NAM is unable to demonstrate safety;]] [[Notes that the government should consider exploratory talks with other potential gas operators if Shell and Exxon fail to draw up a gas extraction plan and ensure adequate damage handling that can begin to restore confidence between NAM and Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Graus, Beckerman and Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-360]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-361]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u250	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment on the maps and the KNMI. I know it is not going to help, but I would like to say a few words about my incomprehension and sadness because the Minister is not even prepared to make available to the National Coordinator, the Province or any other organization a very small sum of money to support four or five Groningers in their court cases. We live in a rule of law. In my view, the Minister agrees with me that citizens should be able to submit their disputes. Citizens with legal aid insurance covering this can do so. Furthermore, only wealthy citizens can do so. In East Groningen, most citizens are not wealthy. In doing so, a majority of the Chamber wanted to make it possible for a number of matters to set a legal precedent. I really don't understand why I can't even do this. I'm very disappointed about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u251	Mr. Chairman. I've got four motions, so I'm gonna blow my brains out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2015 and 2017 the Research Council for Security (OVV) concluded that the balancing of different conflicting interests, such as the importance of the security of the Groningers, the importance of security of gas supply and the financial interests of gas extraction lie with a single ministry;]] [[noting that the Wassenberg motion c.s. (33529, No. 344) calls on the Government to invest the various interests involved in the mining of minerals in different ministries, with the security interest at least assigned to a different ministry than the Ministry of EZ;]] [[In its letter of 30 June 2017 (33529, No. 355) states that it does not intend to implement the motion adopted and thus also ignores the recommendation of the Security Research Council;]] [[calls on the government, before the end of the summer recess, to give substance to the motion adopted and to come forward with a plan to invest the various interests involved in the extraction of minerals in different ministries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the settlement of damages in Groningen is still insufficient and contributes to deep distrust and psychological complaints;]] [[noting that those affected by mining activities are entitled to smooth, equitable and equivalent compensation;]] [[noting that an independent compensation fund can make a substantial contribution to this while at the same time contributing to social solidarity and social recognition of the suffering caused;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a compensation fund for the mining damage in Groningen with independence, a fair assessment of damages, a human measure and a responsible State as a starting point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is in the interests of the climate objectives and the safety of the Groningen people that a gas transition is underway;]] [[noting that the removal of natural gas from homes is an important part of this;]] [[whereas all stakeholders agree that we need to switch to alternatives to natural gas in the foreseeable future;]] [[noting that new buildings connect to gas in order to decouple them in a number of years' time is a form of capital destruction;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards a ban on gas connection in new buildings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Beckerman and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-362]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Graus and Mr Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-363]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-364]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u252	I see I'm at minus two seconds, so I'm in red. I still have a little motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u253	Soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u254	Thank you for your compassion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that gas extraction in Groningen not only causes damage to houses, but also mental damage to the victims;]] [[noting that the SodM stated that in the case of a production of up to 12 billion cubic cubic metres of gas the seismicity would be virtually nil;]] [[Whereas this ensures maximum safety;]] [[Whereas the maximum safety of the inhabitants must be a guiding factor in determining the level of gas extraction;]] [[calls on the government to develop a scenario which reduces gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-365]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u255	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u256	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions. I thank the Minister for the answers. It is good to hear that Groningen's concerns are looked at carefully, because the task in Groningen is great. The concerns and ambitions of the directors of Groningen are also great. I'm glad to hear that the Minister, like the Chamber, has offered to provide support. I think it's always good to find each other and carry the solution together. The VVD also welcomes the Minister's replies on the compensation fund. Of course the VVD had her concerns, still. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to the fund. He says that the fund may be a good point in itself, but that we need to look at what it looks like, what its consequences are and what its legal implications are. He also said that it should not be a layer of administration or bureaucratic moloch, that it should be taken care of and that care should be taken. I'm very happy about that, because we have to move forward in Groningen. The drivers in Groningen have to move forward. I'll just say the spa should be in the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u257	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a damage protocol is currently being worked on;]] [[Whereas the regional parties have presented a note setting out four basic principles for a new damages protocol, namely the responsible State, the human dimension, fair determination of damage and independence;]] [[Whereas by allowing gas extraction on a large scale, with insufficient regard for the safety of residents, the Kingdom has wronged the Groningen people;]] [[Whereas, in this situation, it is only fair for the Empire to supplement what is necessary above the civil code's liability so that residents can reasonably move on with their lives;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a compensation protocol which complies with the principles set out by the regional parties, on the basis of a compensation fund, and on which the principle is the broad liability of the NAM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the extraction of gas in Groningen causes a great deal of unrest;]] [[Whereas, as a result, the support for the opening of new extraction pits has virtually disappeared;]] [[Whereas the transition to renewable energy will continue until 2030 at the latest;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a phasing-out plan for gas extraction in the Netherlands which will include, in addition to the extraction in Groningen, the small field policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many inhabitants with mining damage need support;]] [[Whereas Stut-en-Steun actually provides support for many inhabitants;]] [[considers that this initiative is expected to face financial difficulties this year;]] [[calls on the government, Stut-en-Steun, to support with €200,000 and to find cover for this within the contributions intended for regional bottlenecks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a damage protocol is currently being worked on;]] [[Whereas in previous years the work of the counter-experts has always been regarded as trustworthy and particularly supportive;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs,]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly retain the place of counter-experts and arbitrators within the damages protocol to be agreed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-366]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Nijboer, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-367]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Nijboer, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-368]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Nijboer and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-369]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u258	And then I have eight seconds left to thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u259	Mr. Chairman. We were going to have this debate on the damages settlement protocol. There's still a discussion on that. It is extremely important that it is well-behaved in the region. I ask the Minister, if it takes a little longer, to at least prevent people from getting into real trouble. If he can promise to keep an open eye on this, and I am sure he will be prepared to do so, then we can work with each other to finalise the damage protocol as soon as possible. I'm about to table another motion on the idea of a compensation fund. I understand that an independent committee is being worked on in parallel, and that seems to me to be the right order. I have two motions. If Mr Baudet, like the other groups, wishes to join these motions, he is most welcome. They have already been signed by a number of other parties, but if he is interested in joining, then he can, then he should report it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas residents in Groningen should no longer negotiate directly with NAM for the purpose of dealing with their damage;]] [[Whereas the damage protocol, the recording of the damage and the handling of the material and financial aspects of damage must be independent of the NAM;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, on the basis of previously established non-life insurance funds, the creation of a Groninger Schadefonds, taking into account various aspects, including (im) material damage and the situation on the housing market, including the decline in the value of housing, and to inform the Court of Justice as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Bosman, Agnes Mulder, Bruins, Graus, Van Tongeren, Beckerman and Nijboer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-370]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u260	And then I have another motion to underline the wish that lives wide in the Chamber, namely to ensure that municipalities have the expertise needed for the very complex task in Groningen, the pieces of puzzles that are sometimes really all put together. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas damage treatment, reinforcement, sustainability and shrinkage of municipalities in the earthquake area pose complex redevelopment issues;]] [[whereas there are opportunities to exploit, but careful treatment of residents must be ensured;]] [[Whereas not all municipalities have the necessary expertise in their own homes and are often faced with such a complex task once;]] [[Whereas experience with such processes can promote both speed and diligence in implementation;]] [[calls on the Government, with the NCG, the Province and the municipalities, to ensure that necessary expertise and experience can be made available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Veldhoven, Bosman, Agnes Mulder, Van Tongeren, Graus and Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-371]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u261	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions and a few questions that have not been answered in the first term. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the ongoing discussions on the additional costs to be reimbursed for reinforced construction by NAM;]] [[Whereas this is a legal debate on liability, in which the only solution seems to be to determine independently additional costs such as damages and reparations;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the independent determination of additional costs for earthquake-proof construction of new buildings can be part of a new legal framework, including the remote location of the NAM and a rapid process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Agnes Mulder, Van Veldhoven, Nijboer, Van Tongeren, Graus, Beckerman and Bosman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-372]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u262	Then I have another motion on a point on which the Minister has not yet responded in the first term, but which I already have co-subsidiators for. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas residents above the Norg gas storage are affected by nuisances and damage caused by the storage of Groningengas, thereby allowing more gradual extraction;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that residents above the Norg gas storage facility can make use of the new damage protocol,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Agnes Mulder, Van Veldhoven, Wassenberg, Nijboer, Van Tongeren, Graus, Dik-Faber and Beckerman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-373]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u263	I would very much like to join D66's call to see whether the damage suffered by people who have suffered damage since 31 March can be recorded, perhaps also through the new draft protocol on the table. We have asked another question about the Prime Minister's statements in Groningen on the law and the Council of State: 'The Council of State may say what it wants, but must be dealt with in Groningen. I say, hurry up!" Then the Minister lets us know he's not doing anything with the bill. So what happens now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u264	Mr. Chairman. The starting point of all we are asking for must be: adequate damage handling, reinforcement, buy-out, we have already tabled motions on this subject, reconstructing, rebuilding and real compensation for depreciation. I can go on like this for a while. Since I do not think that I was able to do my interrupting properly, I shall put forward a motion for a preliminary ruling on the guarantee scheme. I have not been able to debate it enough with the Minister. So you get motions that may be superfluous in the eyes of the Minister and the President, but at least I have a stick behind the door. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide a guarantee scheme for buyers and sellers within the mining-related earthquake area of Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to recognise, deal with and compensate the earthquake-related damage in Groningen as mining-related damage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Baudet and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-374]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Baudet and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-375]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u265	Madam President, as you have just heard, I have co-signed the motions of almost all Members. They spoke for me. They're very good and sympathetic motions. They will be adopted by the Chamber and I hope the Minister will do something with it. I would like to thank Members for their cooperation in this matter. It's nice when the Chamber gets together for the sake of the Groningers. I'm proud of that. Mr Baudet is also coming up with a very good motion, which I have also signed with him. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u266	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the fact that there is a fund for damage, that people can turn to the government when their homes are broken and they need to be strengthened and that people are no longer dependent on the NAM. I'm really happy about that. That's what I advocated. I do have faith in this, however, although it takes a long time for the protocol to be designed in such a way that people can also continue to go to the arbitrator or apply for counter-expertises. I'm confident this will come of it. The Minister does not want to go that far in this debate. He was able to hear the room. Otherwise, the Chamber will force it afterwards, but I think it can be done in advance. I am the least satisfied in this debate with the follow-up to the recommendation of the Security Research Council on the various hats that the Ministry of Economic Affairs really has on. I am thinking here of determining the amount of gas extraction, establishing the security of supply, determining how to deal with the damage protocol and how to review the monuments and how to invest in the area. All these different interests and hats in one ministry: that can't go well. I am not satisfied with the fact that this is not being moved. I've co-signed a few motions, but I'm not so motion-bearer myself. I have signed Mr Wassenberg's motion, which was put to the vote on 20 April and accepted by the majority of the House, once again. If that motion is adopted, I believe that what is in it must be done. I also think it is an assignment to the Chamber as a whole. I have had before another govern mentor that I did not sign a motion but that, although I did not agree with it, I did feel that the Minister had to carry it out. That's what I really think about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u267	I hear Mr Nijboer speaks with conviction about not having the different hats under one roof. I wonder at what time the Labour Party came into contact. In the previous cabinet period, she never supported such proposals and defended the opposite with equal passion. Given the passion with which Mr Nijboer speaks, I wonder when he had that click.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u268	The cabinet has already said that it will implement it in 2015. Now it says we're doing it again. At the same time, it doesn't. At the time, we supported it. I do not recognise that we find anything else on this; I really do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u269	More specifically, motions have been specifically rejected by the Labour Party. Given the involvement shown by Mr Nijboer in this debate, I wonder what makes the difference for him. That report and those motions were there at the time. What made a difference to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u270	We can have this debate again in any gas debate. The PvdA has indicated throughout the gas events that I also think that the cabinet has not done well enough, and therefore not the PvdA either. There hasn't been enough gas reduction. People are too badly helped. We all recognize that now. You can then go into every detail and every motion, but it also goes back a bit on this committee: hundreds of motions have been tabled. I do not think picking one out and saying 'you didn't support it then or for that reason' is the way forward. I think I have been clear and I fully support it: the way things have been over the past few years must not be allowed to continue. I believe that this committee is also obliged to itself to table and adopt a motion, which is also being carried out. It also helps to moderate a little bit. That is why, in the second gas debate I am doing, I do not propose separate motions. If I find them very sympathetic, I will support them, but I would be very much in favour of the House coming up with a little more focus on a number of key points. That'll help the Groningen too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u271	Mr. Chairman. I thought it was an interesting debate because it showed once again how much the procedure is above the objectives. The whole debate is constantly about all kinds of aspects of the procedure, without being clear what we want to get out of when. For every company you set up, whether planning a holiday, setting up a business or buying a new suit, you first have what you want in your head. That's your goal. Then you're gonna talk about how. Here we constantly talk about how without having determined what we want in the first place. That is why I am tabling a motion in which we begin to say where we want to come from. What's the dot on the horizon? What's the very first thing the Chamber wants it to happen? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the handling of the earthquake damage in Groningen is now dragging on for far too long and stranded in far too long consultation structures and meeting circuits;]] [[Requires from the Government that all damage to the victims of the Groningen earthquakes as of 1 June 2017 be reimbursed before 31 September 2017 and credited to the victims' bank account by 31 December 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-376]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u272	I also understand that there are all kinds of procedural challenges about how to determine exactly the damage and that there will probably be all kinds of questions, but let's start with the formulation of a target: this is where we want to go. Then it's up to the minister and his officials to make a plan. If they manage to get the targets, it's beautiful and nothing's wrong. If they can't, we'll feel them and we'll see if their reasons and arguments are working or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u273	Let me get this straight: that point on the horizon is for the Forum for Democracy the financial damage that people have in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u274	Correct!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u275	Once that is resolved, there will be no problem for Forum for Democracy. If we spend enough money every time, then it does not matter what the underlying problem is, because I do not hear Mr Baudet about it. He is therefore purely and solely concerned with financial settlement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u276	Yes, of course there are all kinds of problems in the world. I can mention a few of them: the European Union, mass immigration and Islamisation. You can mention all kinds of problems, but when it comes to the people in Groningen who are victims of the earthquakes, it is very important that their damage is compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u277	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has asked me to give him 20 minutes to give him an appreciation of the motions and to answer the remaining questions. That's why I'm suspending until 5:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u278	The Minister is quite ready. I kept him waiting; I apologize for that. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u279	Mr. Chairman. I will respond to the motions with recommendations to the Chamber. Then I will deal with a number of points that have remained and questions that have been asked. I would like to make a preliminary remark. I believe that this is about the 132nd debate I held during this cabinet period and the beginning of a new cabinet period on Groningen and the earthquakes there. I'm not used to moving things forward to the Chamber. I have always expressed the cabinet's position and discussed with the Chamber how we should deal with cases and solve problems. Now I'm moving forward a little bit, and that's because I'm a missionary. I will have a successor or successor, who will then have to take responsibility and answer to the Chamber. I see it as my job to ensure that I do not get in the way of my successor or successor in any way. I will do what I have to do and what I have to do, but what is reasonable to leave to the new ruler, I will certainly leave to that person, because I want him or her to get off to a good start. The first motion, the motion-Van Tongeren c.s. in piece No. 360, is about supporting the arbitrators and the counter-experts. Counter-experts get paid. That's just commercial work. They're companies. They're charging their expenses. There's a profit premium in that too. So it would be strange to add support to that. Arbiters, however, certainly have the right to support. Firstly, we must ensure that there are sufficient arbitrators. We had five, and we just made six of them. They have support in the form of eight formation places: four people for general support and four specific lawyers. That's enough right now. I am, of course, monitoring whether these arbitrators can continue to function properly. So this motion is superfluous and I advise against it. In her motion in part No. 361 asks the government to conduct exploratory talks with other potential gas operators. In the beginning, in 1963, I did not say that in the first term, but I am now saying this on the basis of the 1810 Mining Act, which was in force at that time, for the Groningenveld a perpetual concession. With that, she became the owner of the gas. As I have said before in recent years, the NAM has always been a constructive interlocutor towards me. I did not complain about the way in which I was able to deal with NAM in the interests of solving the problem and meeting the legitimate wishes of the people of Groningen. That is why I do not wish to speculate in any way about other operators. As far as I am concerned, that is not the issue. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u280	I have one question about that. Does the Minister consider that going to the administrative court on a Minister's decision to reduce gas extraction is a constructive attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u281	Over the past four and a half years, I have not complained about the city leaders, provincial leaders, civil society organisations in Groningen and individuals who have all appealed against decisions taken by the government on my proposal. I never complained about that. That was their right. The NAM never did. The extraction was already reduced from 54 billion m in 2013 to 24 billion m until recently. I've never had an objection or appeal from the NAM. Now, with the reduction to 21.6 billion m, the NAM has weighed up and appealed. That's her right and doesn't interfere with my relationship with the NAM. In the Wassenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 362 the government is invited to implement the motion adopted before the end of the summer recess and to come forward with a plan to invest the various interests involved in the extraction of minerals in different ministries. I think that I should also comment on what Mr Nijboer has said on several occasions, namely that the cabinet would not follow the recommendations of the Research Council for Security, the 2015 report. We have said that we are following all the recommendations. Now he says, "You don't." On this point, the Security Research Council has come up with three recommendations. Firstly, make sure that other ministries are involved in the decision-making process. Secondly, make sure that the citizen's perspective is taken into account in the decision-making process by giving province and municipalities a role. Thirdly, strengthen the independence of State supervision of the Mines vis-à-vis the Ministry and the sector. The three recommendations have all been followed. We have the other ministries in a structural way through the Under-Council and the Council of Ministers so that it should be involved in the decisions that have been taken since then. We have shaped the citizen's perspective by amending the Mining Act, which has given the province and the municipalities a role, and we have strengthened the independence of State supervision of the Mines in the way I indicated it in the first term. Then the OVV in its evaluation report came up with something extra. He said that the security interest should be invested in another ministry as an independent interest. In my opinion, this is not in the interests of the safety of the Groningen people. Groningers will benefit most if the lessons learned from policy-making and the lessons learned from monitoring can influence each other. We need to make sure that we use the lessons from the SodM to adapt our policies, and we need to ensure that the SodM can take into account the experience of policy-making and implementation in its opinions. I think it is in the interest of the people in Groningen not to do what was also advised by the OVV in the second instance. I simply disagree with the content. I wrote a letter on behalf of the cabinet on 30 June in which I explained my opinion a little more clearly on the basis of my responsibility, which I feel strongly about the people in Groningen. For this reason, I would advise against Mr Wassenberg's motion. in piece No. 362.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u282	Mr Wassenberg has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u283	Very briefly, because I am not going to repeat the debate. The OVV concluded in 2017 that the 2015 recommendation to invest the different interests in different ministries was not followed. The Minister then said that there would be a blow in the Council of Ministers. Now I'm paraphrasing. The NAM says: no, the decision was actually made within the Ministry of EZ and after that it is tapped out in the Council of Ministers. Again, that's my paraphrasing. So we say that the recommendation has not been followed. Hence the motion calling for this to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u284	What Mr Wassenberg is saying is completely incorrect. The original three recommendations have all been followed perfectly, because we were also convinced that we had to do so. So we followed it up really well. The OVV has come up with another point in its evaluation. We have dealt with this in substance. In the interest of the Groningers, the cabinet does not want to do what was added by the OVV. In the Wassenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 363 calls on the government to set up a compensation fund based on independence and fair determination of damages. I've already told you how I look at the damages fund. What is said in the motion has no added value. That is why I consider the motion to be superfluous and, therefore, to be inadvisable. In the motion in part No. 364 by Mr Wassenberg and Mrs Van Tongeren, the government is invited to work for a ban on gas connection in new buildings. I have taken the important step towards removing the obligation to connect. I said that when we drew up the Energy Agenda, we indicated how we wanted to take the next steps, including the Heat Act. If we discuss that first step, we will be able to discuss it further. I have now taken the first step, and I have also indicated that I will continue to work on this in the Energy Agenda. I have also stated as an objective that in the year 2050 we want all houses off the gas, so we have to get 200,000 homes off each year between now and 2050. That task is crystal clear. It's very big. I really don't need the motion for that. The motion has no added value. I would still suggest to Mr Wassenberg that he hold his motion until the amendment of the Heat Act is discussed. Then he can see whether the whole discussion satisfies him and whether he can settle for it or whether he still wants to send a signal. If he holds the motion, I don't have to say I'll advise her if she doesn't get arrested. In the motion in part No. 365 by Mr Wassenberg, Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Van Tongeren, the government is asked to draw up a scenario which reduces gas extraction to 12 billion m per year. Let me make it quite clear once again: this would simply be very bad for our country's security. Firstly, it is bad for the safety of people in the country if we think that we can do 12 billion m, while we are sure that we will leave people in the cold when we do so, with all kinds of harmful consequences for the safety of people in the country. That's the first thing. The second is that if we increase huge fluctuations from year to year, this has major negative effects for the SodM and for the safety of the people in Groningen. So I think this motion is really irresponsible. I'm gonna dissuade her. In the motion in part No. 366 say Mrs Beckerman c.s. that the government must come up with a compensation protocol which complies with the principles set out by the regional parties. I have addressed in detail the way in which I want to give space to the NCG to achieve a broad-based damage protocol. This really doesn't help with that; hence, I'm moving the motion in part no. 366 detachment. The motion in part No. 367 concerns a phasing-out plan for gas extraction in the Netherlands. It also states that the use of gas in the transition to renewable energy will be allowed until 2030 at the latest. That's bullshit. The gas is still used until 2050, because all houses in the Netherlands are connected to it. To switch off the houses we really need the period until 2050. Gas will also be used afterwards, but the CO will then be collected and stored underground. Both the recital and the conclusion is therefore not correct; therefore, I am referring to the motion in part No. 367 detachment. With the motion-Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 368 the government is asked to give extra €200,000 to Stut-en-Steun. €500,000 has been made available for Stut-en-Steun. To this end, we have been able to set up an organization with places of formation. I think that this year we can get rid of the €500,000. For the following year, the NCG will monitor this and consider the conclusions to be drawn in the interest of the people in Groningen, also in view of other options available for this purpose. The motion in part No. 368 by Mrs Beckerman c.s. I don't recommend it. I don't think you should be giving money until it's necessary. That €500,000 this year for the first time was a big step. We need to see how that will work out and what it will take for the next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u285	Minister, I'd like to interrupt. Mr Wassenberg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u286	I want my motion on piece number one. 364 more, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u287	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motion (33529, No. 364). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u288	Thank you. In the motion in part No. 369 by Mrs Beckerman c.s. the government is asked to explicitly retain the place of counterexperts and arbitrators within the damages protocol to be agreed. I have gone into this in detail in my first term. I don't think it's useful to repeat that. I think it is very important that there should be agreement and broad support. NCG's working on that. We have heard very well the views of the spokesmen in the Chamber, but we should not restrict ourselves to finding a solution for which there is broad support. This motion does not help with that; therefore I have the motion in part no. 369 detachment. With the motion in part No. 370 by Mrs Van Veldhoven, the government is invited to examine, on the basis of previously established claims funds, the creation of a Groningen compensation fund. Different impacts should be considered, including in any case intangible damage and the situation on the housing market, including the decline in the value of housing. The Government is invited to inform the Chamber as soon as possible. I'm familiar with the claims fund's wishes. I have gone into this in detail. I also find a compensation fund functional, so I've already made that judgment. I also understand that this is considered important in the region and therefore the Chamber wants to give a ruling on it. I think we should first have a damages protocol and then we should set up the independent damages committee and the compensation fund. I think that some of the considerations contained in the motion could be involved in the preparation of the form of the compensation fund. I am prepared to involve them in the preparation. If that is the intention of the authors of the motion, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide on the motion. In the motion-Van Veldhoven c.s. in piece No. 371 the government is invited, with the NCG, the province and the municipalities, to ensure that the necessary expertise and experience can be made available to the municipalities. The NCG supports the municipalities. They have received a lump sum of 5 million, with which they can fill out the support. In addition to this, there are many opportunities to receive occasional support. I believe that this motion states that it is supported by the Chamber and that it should remain so. Municipalities should be enabled to do their important work well. I consider the motion to support policy and leave it to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. in piece No. 372, which states that the government should examine how to determine independently the additional costs for earthquake-proof construction of new buildings can be part of a new legal framework whereby the NAM is also placed on this part at a distance and a rapid process is ensured. At the moment, we have agreed on an arrangement for the additional costs of new construction. That was necessary, because 900 houses had to be built in the city of Groningen. That took money. That is why it was agreed directly with NAM and the city of Groningen to ensure that all this could be financed. At the end of the year, we must move towards a situation where the NPR is translated into a building decision. In this way, apart from the NAM, it is made clear in the public sphere how the additional costs and how they should be financed. If that is the intention of the motion without opposition, then I assume it is because I think this is what Mrs Mulder is trying to do, I see the motion as supporting policy and I leave it to the Chamber. In the motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. in piece No. 373 is requested by the government to ensure that residents above the Norg gas storage are able to use the new damage protocol. I think this is part of the ongoing consultation on the damage protocol. The scope of the new harm protocol is discussed in both technical, legal and policy terms. That is why I ask Mrs Mulder to hold this motion. First leave room, so I ask, for the National Coordinator to complete the process he is busy with. This is part of that. First look at the outcome; then the Chamber can always make a ruling. Right now it's too early and it's not helping. I therefore call on Mrs Mulder to vote in favour of this motion. Three hundred and thirty-three to be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u289	I've filed this motion with a lot of people. I am going to discuss this for a moment, and the Minister will see whether we are holding the motion or not. But I just think this should be part of the damage protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u290	What is the verdict when the motion is not held?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u291	All the motions that already state what needs to be done before the damage protocol, I really think are too early. I'm not doing that either. The Chamber, which controls me, shouldn't do that either. For the public direction to be directed there, we have set up a service with three governments, several ministries, the province and the municipalities, led by the National Coordinator. He's got some tough jobs to take care of. He's working on that right now. I really don't recommend telling him what to come out of it while he's working on it. That's really not helping. I'm gonna ask you again to hold the motion. If that is not done, I shall, in all modesty, advise against this motion. I do not think it is in the interests of the solution that we all seek. In the Graus c.s. motion in piece No. 374 states that there should be a guarantee scheme for buyers and sellers within the mining-related earthquake damage area of Groningen. There's been a pilot. That pilot was successfully evaluated. That pilot is focused on bottlenecks. At the moment there is a discussion about the follow-up. We have the people who had signed up for the pilot, but could not participate. Those are people with special circumstances, people who deserve attention. We are going to see how we can follow up on this, on a somewhat larger scale. At the same time, I do not want to drain that area. I know that Mr Graus does not want that either. The way he appreciates the character of Limburg, he also appreciates the character of Groningen. That does not tolerate an arrangement that would promote emptying. So I think it's too early for this motion right now. We need to look at what exactly is the follow-up the National Coordinator is going to propose with regard to the purchase of houses. I think it is best to hold that motion until it is clear. If the outcome is not to the liking of Mr Graus c.s. If so, the motion may still be put to the vote. I therefore propose that the motion be put to the vote. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u292	I'm gonna follow the Minister's advice and continue this motion. I would like to make it clear to the Minister that this also applies to buyers, especially in order to avoid slippage. Otherwise, no one dares take over or buy a house within that area. That was indeed the intention, but I will hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u293	Mr Graus and I both want the housing market to function normally there. If that is not the case, the people in Groningen will suffer and that is not allowed. These people must not be the victims of natural gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u294	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (33529, No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u295	In his motion in part No. 375 proposes that the government recognise, handle and compensate the earthquake-related damage in Groningen as mining-related damage. We don't have a difference of opinion on that. The law deals with damage caused by mining activities. This includes natural gas extraction and all other activities. There's really no misunderstanding about that. It's just in the law. Let us not create fog on that point either. I dissuade the Graus c.s. motion. in piece No. 375.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u296	However, I am going to put that motion to the vote. This was requested not only in Groningen, but also in Limburg by experts. That would help to better funnel the damage as mining-related damage. The same applies to the future, so that we have a stick in front of a possible successor to this minister. So I'm gonna put that motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u297	About this motion. Mr Graus is calling in the mining industry in Groningen. I have discussed what is going on there and the settlement of it could make arrangements with the provincial government and with the municipality. We are now working hard to comply with these agreements and to implement them. In his motion in part No. 376 motion for a resolution calls on Mr Baudet to make good any damage suffered by earthquake victims as of 1 June 2017 by 31 December at the latest and to be credited to the bank account. These are all statements that I can't do very much with, given what practice teaches. We've already had 80,000 damage reports. There were 16 palpable earthquakes last year, 1.5 or more on the Richter scale, so to speak, between 1.5 and 2.5. There will be constant reports of damage, as the practice teaches. It is not the case that by setting a date, we are done with the problem at once. We can get rid of the problem by ensuring that it is properly handled, and this is the focus of the interaction of damages fund, compensation protocol and independent damage assessment. I think that's much more effective than data setting. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 376 by Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u298	Doesn't the Minister see that it starts with setting a target, at a point on the horizon: that's where we want to go, that's where we want to go, that's where we want to get rid of the bulk of the claims on that date? That's what it all starts with, isn't it? It doesn't start with a procedure, does it? A procedure is the result of an objective that we set ourselves and an objective is not something that happens to follow the procedure or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u299	We've been able to handle almost 64,000 claims from the claimants. We're very busy taking care of the rest. Moreover, in the context of the operation, we are trying to make good not so much damage caused by earthquakes as by damage which we believe is not caused by it, but also damage which, in other cases, is not caused by it, to make available a damage repair voucher of up to €1,500, up to €5,500 and even more in 750 individual cases. That's all going on, so I really don't need a motion like that for that. We've been working on it for years. We are convinced that our efforts must be aimed at doing this in a better way, hence the damage protocol. I am very aware that claims have remained for a number of months now. I would also like to deal with these claims as quickly as possible, because I believe that people have a right to do so. I really do not need Mr Baudet's date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u300	Well, let me put it this way. I fully understand that the Minister is not very keen to embrace a request from the Chamber to work harder, to achieve some more concrete goals. I think, on the contrary, that the resignation of the Minister of this motion could be an incentive for the Chamber to adopt the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u301	With all due respect, Mr Baudet does not have to urge me to work harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u302	The Minister has asked me for the motion on item No. Three hundred and thirty-three to be held. There is a large majority of them. The National Coordinator Groningen is now working on the damage protocol. I think the National Coordinator Groningen has heard very well what a majority of the Chamber would like with regard to the gas storage in Norg. I'm holding the motion now and I'm counting on it to be reflected in the damage protocol. If that is not the case, we will re-table it and that majority will still be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u303	At the request of Mrs Agnes Mulder, I propose her motion (33529, No. 373). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u304	There is a question from Mrs van Veldhoven's first term to which I have not yet answered. She asked if I agree that the first priority of the knowledge programme should be mining effects in the independent assessment of the underground situation. I agree with her that the knowledge programme needs to be implemented vigorously, but it takes time to get that programme up and running. I don't want to wait for that. We are in the process of getting this programme up and running, but there are already plenty of independent investigations going on. TNO is working hard on calculation models to verify the risk calculations of the NAM. Then a situation has been created where we are no longer dependent on what the NAM has provided. Then we have our own calculation model, drawn up by TNO, which allows us to verify what the NAM has provided. The independent panel, which has already come together, has already indicated that it is important to see these TNO models in place, that they are essential and that they should not only be applied, but also be available to everyone in the public sphere. We need to make sure that these models are accessible to everyone and that they are kept, so that, apart from the SodM and we, in the assessment of the NAM information, everyone can learn about them and think about them. The starting point is that TNO's models are available at the end of the year. The NAM must then come up with new risk calculations, to which we can apply the TNO models. We are already ahead of that knowledge programme, with the support of the panel of independent experts that is in charge of that programme. Mrs Mulder pointed out that the Prime Minister said that a follow-up to the draft law on the National Coordinator Groningen was needed quickly. I have indicated that it is important that the National Coordinator should be able to do his job and that he should have the powers to do so. I haven't noticed for a moment that he couldn't do his job properly because of lack of powers. However, I think that we should take this opportunity into account and give it those powers. If necessary, he should be able to use them. On the bill, we received an opinion from the Council of State. I could now propose to the Cabinet to take a decision on this, and I could then present the bill to the Chamber. But I'm not really okay with doing that as a missionary minister. I also sent a letter to the Chamber about this. In it I write that this is important for the future, because that bill deals with what things you do and which you do not make available to the NCG, and how you make its position vis-à-vis trade ministers. I can really imagine that the next cabinet and also the new Chamber would like to talk about these things in substance. I think the Chamber should not have this conversation with me, but with my successor. That is why I am not yet sending the bill to the Chamber, hoping that there will soon be a next cabinet that will be able to take this up. If that is going to take too long, I will reconsider this point. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-29.u305	Thank you, Minister. I thank the Chamber. I would also like to thank all those who have expressed an interest in this debate. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Thursday.
