ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the honourable Members for their input and the many questions. Thanks also for the compliments on the state of the budget. I have to be careful what I say about that, because everything I say about it is breast-knocking. That is why I am particularly grateful if the Members of your Chamber say positive things about it. For the rest, it has been a somewhat morbid debate so far. It shot back and forth from the reproach of "regulating over the grave" to the reproach of "hiding in the cupboard." Now it can't be both true. At least... you do feel like a funeral undertaker, as I hear Mr. Nijboer say. It's a complicated period, let's not beat about the bush. We are supposed to manage a budget and we are even supposed to rule the country. I have found no evidence in our constitutional law that I should actually be reluctant on this point. There is a kind of use, but as the formation lasts longer, I can't help it either.There are things that just need to be addressed and solved. You can argue politically about what is urgent and what should remain. Some will say: you must not leave targets open; they must be invested immediately with general coverage. Others will say: that does not seem necessary to us, let that be left for the formation. It is really a matter of political taste to what extent the cabinet should clean up business and to what extent it should leave things to be done so that a next cabinet can give substance to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister is just about a minute and a half, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, we listen carefully from the first second. I was happy with what the minister just said. He confirmed that there is another mission in the 2018 budget. That's the question I asked. So I understand the Minister that there is another 467 million in the OCW budget for 2018. The Minister just confirmed that. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr Van Weyenberg is now pretending to have discovered something, but his group chairman had already discovered it in the debate on the Millions Note. He then tabled a motion which was also adopted with the support of the coalition parties. So this is not a new theme, Mr Van Weyenberg has discovered nothing new. I'm gonna have to disappoint him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	No, I don't think I've discovered anything new either. By the way, there has been an additional setback in the student estimate, so the amount has increased. In the motion it was asked: solve it without it affecting the education system. That happened before 2017, but unfortunately, to the great disappointment of my group, not before the years after. Mr Nijboer denied that this task was in the budget. I think that Mr Dijsselbloem, the Minister for Finance, has convinced his own party mate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	No, Mr Van Weyenberg is confusing a task and a cut in the budget. It's the same for him. The power of the Pechtold motion was right: let this task not be cut back. Mr Van Weyenberg is now sitting in the wheel of his own group chairman. It has said to us: this task must not be cut back. Mr Van Weyenberg now says to Mr Nijboer, through you, President, and through me, that a mandate is a cut. It can't be both true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	This is the creative accounting department. Anyway, I get... no, let me put it more neutrally. The conclusion is that the motion states: let it not be a task or a cut in education. The Cabinet has done so before 2017, for which thanks...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	... but not for the years after that, which means that this is still hanging over the market, while all kinds of other targets for those years were removed from the table, the household care fine AOW, the monument deduction in the spring note. I regret that this task is still in the books for the year 2018. And yes, the Minister is right, words about more money for next year sound a bit hollow in the ears from some parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr Van Weyenberg is right. Some outstanding measures have been removed because they simply cannot rely on sufficient support in the Second and First Chambers. The care allowance is one of them. The CPB's already got rid of it. In the meantime, the CPB has also removed the task of teaching, in the sense that it has been said that it will not be invested in measures. The balance of the CPB has thus already been incorporated. The cabinet has not yet done so, because it thought you could think differently; this debate is also in favour of the fact that the mission should remain on OCW, so that a next cabinet can consider just solving it with general money, ask OCW for measures or take measures elsewhere in the national budget to find that money. That is exactly the difference between a target and a cut. With a task you can find all kinds of solutions. You can actually put it in the balance, you can invest it with general resources, you can take other budget measures, you can wait and see if there is any underexhaustment on OCW. These are all ways of filling out a task as time goes by. That's really something other than a cut. I thought D66 understood that in her motion, too. But the message of D66 is clear. She says: you also have to take this series from the OCW budget on a multiannual basis, if necessary at the expense of the balance. That is how I understand Mr Van Weyenberg. He doesn't tell us how else to cover it. Anyway, I can't judge whether this is wise or whether the now forming parties agree with him. He's gonna have to solve that himself with his interlocutors. Well, that would help me. Mr President, as I said, it is a complicated period. Let me start with the economy. The economy is doing well. I was even asked whether I expected the surplus to increase even further. I believe that Mr Van Rooijen asked that question. Of course, I cannot speculate on that, but it is true that the latest successive estimates have given rise to growth. Now that's all I can say for sure, but the economy is doing very well. The latest confidence rates were also very high. Questions have been asked about inflation. We do not make our own estimates for inflation at the Ministry of Finance. We rely on the Central Planning Office. This foresees an inflation rate of 1.4% in both 2017 and 2018 for the Netherlands and 1.4% and 1.5% in 2017 and 2018 for the euro area. That is indeed a lot higher than the estimate we were still working with for the Millions Note. That has to do with energy and raw materials. Perhaps it also has to do with economic recovery and falling unemployment. These can also gradually lead to upward pressure on wages and prices. And yes, that has an effect on purchasing power. That is a fact for us; it is not something that we, as politicians, directly influence. Have the math masters been sleeping? Mr Azarkan's question concerned both the inflation estimate and the interest rate estimate. These are just the most updated figures. The figures for the current year are now also covered by implementation figures. In the course of the current year, the estimates are, of course, adjusted on the basis of the new and therefore more reliable data, but they can of course change over time. So there's no question of sleeping. It's just an adjustment in time based on new facts. In conjunction with this, Mr Azarkan asked: how can it lead to a fall in interest rates? The estimate of study funding expenditure has also been updated. It's been adjusted downwards. This is done annually on the basis of the most recent data. This includes several items. Think of conversions of the basic scholarship, the supplementary scholarship, the O.V. student card. Sometimes they're turned into a gift. All this kind of adjustment is in there. The interest rate on student loans has its own system with fixed moments at which the interest rate on a loan is fixed and is fixed for some time. That explains the difference. It's just another system. Mr Harbers referred to a debate on the ECB's inflation target: close to but below two; close to but below two. Is that still a good objective? I would suggest that the ECB should be an independent monetary authority, so that it can set its inflation targets independently. In my view, there is still broad consensus among economists that moderate positive inflation is desirable for stable economic development. That could be below or close to 2%, but again that is up to the ECB. In the debate there are two tastes. Some say, if you really want to get away from the inflation ghost, you have to send at 4%. Others say that because of technological development, which is becoming worse and worse in inflation rates, that 2% is not really the right measure anymore. We will be following that debate with interest, but the two directions in the debate point out two different directions. For the time being, the ECB has said that 2% is an adequate target. Then we talked about the relationship with household purchasing power. Mrs Leijten asked a question about household spending in the Netherlands which is lower than in other EU countries. It's hard to compare. She says this is because of purchasing power development, but it is a structural fact in the Netherlands. This has to do with the fact that, for example, we have collected our healthcare expenditure to a large extent. In many European countries, healthcare expenditure, especially long-term care, is not public expenditure. They pay people themselves when they have it. We don't. We are financing this together with a strong element of solidarity. This means that people themselves do not make direct spending and so the spending is lower. A similar point is that a lot of savings are traditionally made in the Netherlands; we save a lot for our pension. This also leads to lower expenditure in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	The Minister made a remarkable remark, which I do share, by the way. He said that care in the Netherlands is part of the collective sector. I have a question that goes back to the past. When we still had the Health Insurance Act, you had private insurance and the health insurance fund. They were not included in the collective sector. This, of course, has a huge impact on the collective sector. It's good to realize that, looking back, well. What does the Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	These kinds of shifts in definitions of what belongs to private audiences and what belongs to the collective sector have been certain at that time. We have a system in the Netherlands, the AWBZ and today the Long-Term Care Act, which significantly reduces the cost of long-term care through the collective system. That was my point, because in other countries that is much less. It is much less in Germany and it is much less in England. Our neighbouring countries are doing it in a different way, and that is reflected in the amount of money we spend on care, which is relatively high compared to our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u15	If we look at gross domestic product and what we spend on health care, the Netherlands is at the same level as the surrounding countries. There, apparently, people spend even more private than through the collective sector. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u16	Yeah, if you put private and public spending together, we'll be closer together. If you look in there, you will see that we are, in particular, making the financing of long-term care a large part through the collective sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mrs. Leijten, you know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u18	I know the percentages pretty well. Family spending is 10% lower in the Netherlands and the gross domestic product and the percentage we spend on care is on average. That's why I asked for this. The Minister explained this by pointing out the financing of care and savings. Does this really have nothing to do with the remaining purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u19	I believe that the problem of purchasing power is also a major issue in our neighbouring countries. This concerns the discussion on the labour income ratio: what part of our common prosperity is being paid again in the form of wages, salaries and incomes? That aspect of the question of how is purchasing power actually going? It is a matter for all the countries around us. That's not something from year to year, because we've had a couple of really good years. This year it is a bit quieter in terms of purchasing power, but the more structural backwardness of wages and the decline in the labour income ratio is not typically Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u20	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u21	I still feel that my question is not fully understood whether this answer might not be the answer to the question I am asking. We see that in a European comparison, household spending is 10% lower. I find that striking because, economically speaking, things are going pretty well here. We are indeed talking about the share of wages and the share of profits, but the Minister has never referred to this in his statement of 10% deficit. He always said this was because of the cost of care. They are generally, on average, a little bit the same in the countries that we like. He also said that this is because we save more, in this case for our pension. In my term, I asked the Minister whether that really has nothing to do with the purchasing power lag or the need to pay more for the provision of services. In recent years, for example, savings have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u22	I'm thinking how we can pull this apart. If you were to greatly increase purchasing power, for example through a tax reduction, people could of course spend more. If that is the relationship Mrs Leijten is looking for, then we can be very simple about it. Of course it is. Her approach was that household spending in the Netherlands is on average so much lower than in Europe and she wondered if this was not due to purchasing power. The first step I want to take is the step towards the definition and the way in which certain things are financed in different countries. You'll have to level it out for a while, because there are big differences in that. If you have to pay all kinds of education and care costs yourself in a particular country, that expenditure counts as a household spending. In the Netherlands we collect that money first from all, after which we spend it through the Long-Term Care Act. Then it is no longer the use of households; then it is an expenditure of the collective sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u23	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u24	So there are real doubts about the comparability of countries. Then there's the big discussion. A great deal has been said today about purchasing power. I'm going to be brief about that. The spring note is not a time for a purchasing power debate for the cabinet. Members may disagree with me on this, but that is my point. We are not going to adjust taxes, tax rates, tax brackets, surcharges, etc. in the middle of the year. That's not even feasible. We do that once a year. The purchasing power we present on Prince's Day is not a promise, as many Members have said. We cannot promise them at all. In August, on the basis of the latest estimate by the CPB, we will see whether an adjustment, an adjustment of the policy, is necessary so that we have a purchasing power image that we like politically on Princess Day. That's not a promise, because the next day things change in the world again. We've had discussions here about the health benefits. If they go higher, it will be at the expense of purchasing power. We also had years in which they were not bad; then there was additional purchasing power. We have had years in which inflation was very low; that helped purchasing power. Now inflation is slightly higher; that does not help purchasing power. They're not promises. We are not going to adjust the tax rates or the surcharges all the time over the year. I have to answer all the comments and questions about what should be done in this area in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u25	For today, I very much agree with the Minister on this. That is also what I said in the debate with Mr Van Dijck. We do now have a outgoing cabinet which is preparing the decision on purchasing power for next year's budget. I would, however, like the Minister to point out that, as far as the outgoing cabinet is concerned, it is not the highest income that can benefit most now that economic conditions are improving while the lowest incomes and middle incomes, pensioners and beneficiaries are lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u26	That's a fair point. Looking ahead: as long as this cabinet, this coalition is there, of course, the coalition's agreement is that we will present a balanced purchasing power picture and a balanced income development. On the basis of the latest estimate we have had, it simply requires correction. It's as simple as that. Mr Snel has asked me whether we are talking about 1 or 2 billion. I have indeed told a journalist once that we have spent about 1 to 2 billion per year in recent years. I don't think that's necessary this year. Actually, everyone's pretty much between 0 and 1. Inside there are differences but we have sometimes had greater differences in recent years and then we really had to nail down 1 to 2 billion to correct that. So I don't think it's gonna have to be this big in August. We will then look at the latest estimates and the picture that we will then get from the CPB what is needed, but the agreements on this in the coalition agreement will of course continue to apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u27	In short, if nothing changes, would it prove that older people, benefit recipients and low and middle incomes are lagging behind the highest incomes, does the government propose to correct this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u28	I believe that this is in line with the agreements in the coalition agreement. That's what we've really done every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u29	Speaking of agreements in the coalition agreement, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the budgetary rules...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u30	Do you want me to answer that right now? I have the question very clearly so that you do not have to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u31	That helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u32	Often Cabinets have an agreement on what needs to be done when the budget is back in order and there is a lot of money left. That's a certain key. A part then goes to relief, a part to repayment of public debt and sometimes you could also say that part goes to spending. I believe that you quoted budget rule 6, which deals with the situation that if there was a surplus, a quarter of it would go to reducing the burden. It was quite inconceivable at that time that we would still see that there was a surplus; we also laughed at it when we wrote the coalition agreement. When we drew up and presented the budget on Princess' Day, there was no question of that either because we expected a deficit of half a percent. Over the course of this year, this financial year has turned into a surplus. The last estimate is a surplus of 0.2. To this end, my answer is: we are not going to change tax rates or scales for the current year, to adjust fees and so on. We don't. We never do. You can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u33	This was the answer to the questions put by a number of Members? That's what you've done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u34	As far as anyone who advocates purchasing power repair, tax adjustments and refunding money to people is concerned, this answer applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u35	Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u36	I am glad that budget rule 6 is respected and that it does not, because when it was drafted it seemed unlikely, now disappears into the trash. If we don't adjust now, I assume you're thinking about 2018 and then there's still budget rule 6. So after August last year, that windfall turns out to be happening and so a quarter is reserved for relief, so I can assume that on Prinsjesdag with the Tax Plan there is at least 1 billion relief in the books according to budget rule 6?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr Van Dijck can't assume anything yet. Once I express the hope that I will not have to present the budget on Prince's Day and then we will see what is in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u38	The PvdA Minister says to the PvdA Chamber member: the budgetary rules are maintained. Does this mean that, if this cabinet is still in the decision-making process in August, it then complies with the rules of the game as laid down and then not just no. 6 as well as all the other rules laid down in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u39	Strictly speaking, you are asking for it on the man side. If the coalition parties agree, a coalition can rewrite the coalition agreement on the spot. Should it be necessary and if both coalition partners agree, that is possible. The answer to this cannot therefore be "yes'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u40	But now it's really going to be very bar. The PvdA asked about the rule she likes: do you stick to it, Minister? Then the Minister said: yes, of course I will stick to that. Then when I ask if all the rules are true, he says: well, we could rewrite them. I would like to ask the question again: does the Minister comply with the rules agreed in the coalition agreement, or does he only abide by the rules agreed in the coalition agreement that he likes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u41	No, it's not about what I stick to, it's about what the government and the coalition wish to stick to. The agreements are in place until the coalition decides unanimously to change the agreements. Given the agreements as they are, we'll stick to them, but the coalition can decide to do it differently. You can always do that. That also happens during a cabinet period. Once again, I hope that the negotiating parties will move forward, so that I do not experience any of this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u42	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u43	So the government keeps to the agreements, unless both parties decide together that they make other agreements. It is therefore not the case that one of the two parties deviates from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u44	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u45	And that applies to all agreements in the annex with the rules of the game. I shall come back to that in a moment, as a result of what this means for the education budget, because I do not think that the Minister is fully aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u46	This is a typical Omtzigtian remark. I have no idea what he means, but the coalition agreements apply until the coalition agrees otherwise. I can advise him for years to come. It's a practical way of working.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u47	You may respond, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thanks for the advice, but as my colleague from D66 has just said, there is a setback in the education budget. There's been a break-up of windfalls and setbacks. If additional expenditure is to be incurred by new policies, this cannot be done under the budgetary rules. Then we'll have to get rid of the setbacks first. So the Minister can only start raising teacher's salaries if he has eliminated the fallout of half a billion. That's what his budget rules say. That's right, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u49	This also applies: if I agree in the coalition on the way we do it, then that is how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u50	Last week there was an interrupting debate between Mr Krol and the Prime Minister, when it was discussed about the 5 billion that unfortunately went to the workers, only to the workers............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Prime Minister then said that he would listen to opportunities to do things differently next year. The minister just said that the cabinet could also make different arrangements in 2018 than it might have planned so far. Is the cabinet prepared to look at a significant, exclusive reduction in the burden for the elderly, outside the generic burden relief, in order to make up for their decline in purchasing power? I have already referred to the Law on standardization of pay and the fact that in those 5 billion are not shared by the elderly. There has been a major reduction of 5 billion. The Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u51	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u52	The minister says he did 1 to 2 billion every year, if necessary, but we didn't participate in the 5 billion. Can we do business with you now? Would you like to include this in any adjustment of the plans for next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u53	We will do what we do every year. In August we look at the purchasing power picture. If there are imbalances in this and, on the basis of the latest figures I have seen, there is an imbalance in the picture for the elderly, we will correct it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u54	I was actually referring to the fact that in 2016 that 5 billion went almost entirely to the workers alone. Mr Krol asked the Prime Minister last week whether he would like to do something about this for the next budget. He said he was listening to that. My question to this Minister is whether he is not only listening to this, but also taking this question with him to the budgetary discussions, because it cannot be that in the case of tax increases, the elderly simply have to participate, while reliefs go exclusively to the workers, as happened with the 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u55	This 5 billion has been a very targeted package, with the aim of improving the functioning of the labour market and helping people to work from benefits. That package was very targeted. 50PLUS has no sympathy for that. I regret that. This was, as a result of the crisis, a very focused and conscious choice to support the labour market and ensure that people come to work at the bottom. This was partly done by meeting employers, partly by ensuring that people just have net more left in their pockets. 50PLUS has spoken shamefully of this. I just don't agree with that. As far as I am concerned, 50PLUS rightly asks to ensure that income trends, including those of the elderly, provide a balanced and fair picture. That's something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u56	The Minister suggests that we do not understand the measures taken for workers, including at the bottom of the labour market. On the contrary. Our point is only: if we reduce the burden on labour and also on the bottom, then we also have to reduce taxes for those who have worked, on former labour. That's what the law says. You cannot apply age discrimination by saying: we are going to increase the employment discount, but we are not going to increase the elderly discount. It was initially reduced by €93 two years ago. That is what we are fighting against.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u57	That's the good right of 50PLUS. Each cabinet can, of course, take very targeted measures. I would like to mention, for example, the increase in the employment discount. If a cabinet has the majority of the Chamber behind it, a cabinet can do so at any time. This does not mean that you will have to take measures to strengthen purchasing power for everyone outside and around it. It just doesn't work that way in democracy. We have different buttons in the tax system. You don't have to hit them all at once. You can also just give one button a swipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u58	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u59	The main thing for me is that it is tax age discrimination. That's what the Secretary of State is all about. If the Minister reduces taxes on labour, he must also reduce taxes on non-work. You cannot raise the secondary purposes of the tax as a primary objective by reducing only the tax on labour. That never happened in the past. This has happened extremely in the last four years with the employment discount of €1,000 added.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr Van Rooijen can use these terms, but that does not mean that it is true. It has, of course, also happened so often in the past that new instruments have been introduced into taxation to stimulate the labour market, to help workers, to assist entrepreneurs and to reduce their tax burden. You can't be in favour of that, you can say that it's all instrumentalism and that you shouldn't have that in the tax system, but our tax system is forgiven for it. The simple thesis that if you turn a button that works for entrepreneurs or for workers, you also have to make the same money available to non-working people, is a political view. But that's not how the system works. That is not a view that is widely shared. You can simply take targeted measures if that is politically desirable. Then there is the discussion about wages and the labour income ratio. The new figures that our advisers have worked on together indeed show that the labour income ratio has fallen in recent years. It's also below the long-term average. That suggests room for higher wages. And I always add: the picture varies by sector. Yeah, it is. These are determined primarily by the social partners. Hence my appeal, which is now being widely shared. The cabinet itself follows up on this. In this spring note, for example, we have released 300 million to compensate for the higher pension premium, so that there is still room for wage increases in the sectors covered by the ABP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u61	How much room is available for wage increases in the sectors covered by the ABP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u62	With this 300 million, it will be possible to get an average increase of 1%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u63	Then it's about 1% raise for teachers, defense personnel, co-governments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u64	Now we need to be much more precise, because it matters very much what is already going on, when collective agreements expire and when a new collective agreement should be concluded. That's why I'm formulating it carefully. With this 300 million it is possible to raise 1% this year for these sectors. In some sectors there was already some room for wage increases. That's where it's being replenished. There was less room in other sectors. You'll come together at 1%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u65	This 300 million for the ABP premium does not therefore have to be paid to the ABP, but can be used for the wage area. Do I understand that correctly from this answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u66	Our approach is always: the wage space is 1. Part of this goes to the contribution of pension contributions and part to income. Thus, if contributions to the ABP go up significantly, this will be at the expense of the total wage area. That is why we have decided to add 300 million more, so that there is still room for a raise. Otherwise it would have gone off the space for a raise, to put it simply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u67	Finally, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u68	This leaves 1% extra for wage increases, on average for the whole wage building, for everyone covered by the ABP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u69	The formulation listens closely. With this 300 million there is room for an average 1% wage increase for these sectors. I say it again, because it depends very much on the collective agreement. How long will it last and what arrangements will continue in this year? That is why my wording is: with this 300 million, it is possible for these sectors to get an average increase of 1% this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u70	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u71	However, I would suggest that the Minister continue with his answers. He's been at it for about nine minutes, but we've been at half an hour of interruptions. Interrupting every sentence doesn't make it any clearer. A lot of questions were asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u72	Then I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u73	The point is that 300 million has been added. There's ABP bonus. So it can now be used in general? I just have a very specific question: how much extra pay space does this 300 million, which is to a large extent added to the education budget, lead to for teachers' salaries in primary and secondary education? How much extra can these be increased by this extra addition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u74	If you want to know by sector, I'll have to come back to it in second term. The system is such that, at the time when the ABP pension premium increases significantly, employers have to pay a large part of it. It is therefore based on the wage room available at the negotiating table for collective agreements. Unfortunately, there are always two negotiating tables. Here the pension contributions are discussed by the social partners and there the wages. If the premiums are substantially increased, there is no money left. So we have said: we are adding 300 million over the whole of the sectors, so that new collective agreements can be concluded, with an overall increase of 1% for these sectors. There wouldn't have been one otherwise; we would have stopped again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u75	I am sorry, Mr Omtzigt, but I suggest that the Minister continue with his answers. You will have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u76	I will come back in the second term to the issue of the education sectors and to the question of how it works for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u77	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u78	I'm coming to Europe now. Many questions have been asked by Mr Van Dijck about the views expressed by the European Commission. Mostly those are notes with scenarios. There are no choices yet. Nor is it expected that decisions will be taken in Europe in the short term on matters such as a budget for the euro area, Eurobonds, a European Minister for Finance and so on. You will soon receive a more comprehensive response from us to the EU reflection paper. You can, of course, put that aside, knowing that there will be a new cabinet, where perhaps new views will emerge on this point. I can't predict that. In any case, I do not expect this outgoing cabinet in Europe to have to take a stand on these visionary ideas. Is Brexit a body in the closet? Is it a setback and we're supposed to be in the pouch? The UK is a strong net contributor in Europe. So if they leave, there will be a net hole. That is why the Netherlands is committed to a modernised and financially sustainable MFF. This means that the budget must be resized so that the Dutch contribution will not increase due to the Brexit. That is our view on this. Here too, the wording is very precise. The Dutch contribution is likely to increase, albeit for other reasons. That is already provided for in our multiannual estimate, but our aim is not to allow the payment to increase further by Brexit. That's it, in short. We recently had an AO on the MFF with the Foreign Affairs Committee, I think. Mr President, the order of answer may not be entirely logical, but I am simply going through the pile of questions. Questions have been asked about the separation of income and expenditure. Mr Omtzigt has asked for this. Is that still the case? Yeah, that's what we're talking about. We remain under the expenditure framework, so there is no tension on that either. As Mr Omtzigt knows, we are currently expecting 1 billion below that. We have been able to solve a number of pressing issues that require additional expenditure under the expenditure ceiling. There is still room within the expenditure framework. So there is no question that we need to break that ceiling on a regular basis. Budgetary rule six we've had. Mr Azarkan van DENK asked about cash slides. Is this not artificially improving the short-term, while the long-term is deteriorating? No, it is not, but I think the problem arises because we have shown the annual slides in the multiannual annex to the Spring Paper, 2017 to 2021. If you look at it alone, it seems as if the image is burdened with 1.3 billion. Also, cash slides should be combined to be neutral in their effect. You get the full picture when you take 2016 through 2022. Then you see that the addition of these slides is neutral again. I think that's where the misunderstanding comes from. Then there is the budget for education. In recent years we have indeed spent a lot of time on budgets such as those of V and J and Defence. I'll get to that in a minute. At the moment, much attention is being paid to the budget for education. Mr Omtzigt has asked an interesting political question. He started saying it's a shame the finance minister isn't on the pennies anymore. I'm rarely accused of not sitting on the pennies. The surplus disappears like snow before the sun, he said. The opposite is true. We have to stick to the facts. We initially expected a deficit this year, but that has been turned into a surplus and that surplus is increasing further with each new budget item at the moment. I am going to talk about the effect of the quality framework on care, but it is certainly not the case that the surplus disappears like snow for the sun. Perhaps Mr Omtzig meant the sustainability balance. This will be recalculated by the CPB, possibly on Princess Day and otherwise when the new cabinet takes office. Then the government balance will be re-established. Here too, spending on nursing homes will have an impact on the maintenance surplus, but I assume that we will still have sustainable public finances. We'll hear and see from the CPB. Then I come to the education budget. In the case of education, a mission is still open. This task has been further increased by the setback, which is actually a windfall, on the student estimates. We agreed to cover it for the current year. After all, we are still responsible for the budget. If we have to present a new budget on Princess Day, we will, of course, also make the 2018 budget neatly final, including for OCW. The dilemma is how we deal with longer-term targets. Should there be any further measures, should they be taken at Education or elsewhere? So far, our consideration has been that we should leave that at the negotiating table, because there may be differences of opinion between the negotiating parties. If things are different, we are open to political guidance towards Princess Day. But we'll see about that. The same applies to educational desires. Questions have been asked about an additional 10 million for the cultural budget that the Chamber has made available. I really can't say anything about it right now. We will possibly involve this in the discussions in August. Otherwise it will have to come from the Chamber again. Questions have been asked about educational disadvantage policies. Fortunately, based on the old distribution system and old criteria, the number of low-skilled parents is steadily decreasing. That was the criterion for money for combating educational disadvantages. That budget could therefore be adjusted downwards. That's the austerity you're seeing right now. That's possible, because there are fewer low-educated parents. As a result, the discussion continues as to whether there should be a new distribution system and whether this criterion is still good. The Secretary of State for Education said he's not gonna do that next year. He's still in consultation with the VNG about the distribution system. We are not going to take any action on this either at the moment. Again, in August we can consider matters, but in principle the Secretary of State for Education is working on this. We will look at all these educational wishes in August, partly in the light of what we are doing with the open mandate. I can't say much more about it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u79	If there is no extra money for education, for salaries on top of ABP, does that mean that the Minister of Finance does resign, that he does not resign or that it is not yet known?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u80	I never speculate on resigning. I do it or I don't, but I'm not gonna speculate about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u81	Nevertheless, the Deputy Prime Minister said that the PvdA executives, one of whom is this Minister of Finance, will resign if there is no extra money for teacher salaries in primary education. My question is not exactly how much money is involved, which will be a question of negotiation, but whether this minister is threatening to resign or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u82	I never talk about resigning until I resign.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u83	Then I conclude that this Minister of Finance makes his own assessment and does not join the Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u84	You can do that, but that doesn't mean anything to me either. I am also a member of a group. My political leader will make his political assessment with the group, should that situation arise. I'm not speculating on my resignation until I'm gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u85	This was not about the group. The group can always table a motion of censure, and the Member of Parliament, Mr Dijsselbloem, can certainly table a motion of censure against Minister Dijsselbloem. This can be done in the Dutch situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u86	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u87	I didn't think such absurdities would happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u88	Where do you want to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u89	To the simple question... There are PvdA people everywhere, where I look. What does Minister Asscher mean when he says: I withdraw the PvdA executives from the cabinet if nothing happens to the salaries in primary education? Is that a PvdA or cabinet decision or do we see what happens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u90	That does not seem to me to be a cabinet decision, if it is to occur. It's pretty simple. As long as the Labour Party has to take responsibility for the budget, it will have to want and be able to bear that responsibility. This is, of course, accompanied by political wishes, which must be reflected in the budget. I have noted two of them, in which I recognise myself very well: a balanced purchasing power picture and the priority for primary education salaries. That's clear. I call on Mr Omtzigt and his colleagues: hurry up, hurry up, the country is waiting for you, so that you can make the budget yourself. That would be a great relief to me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u91	I understand the Minister of Finance's answer very well. I also heard him on the radio last Friday. There he explained that it is quite logical that the signature of the Labour Party will not come under a new budget if this is not settled, because it happens every year. That's where he said it very clearly. So the moment that it doesn't work out to do something about teachers' salaries in primary school, the signature doesn't go under.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u92	I would really recommend to the SP and wish her a chance to join a coalition. As a coalition party, the SP will never agree to a budget that it does not feel politically at home with, for which it does not want to bear the responsibility. Isn't it every year? You don't think we've presented budgets over the past few years that we as PvdA didn't support? If that had been the case, we would have gotten out years ago. That was not the case. We'll solve the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u93	That may explain a little why the election results have been the same as they have been. Especially in the area of care, there have been rather painful cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u94	But I didn't think the SP had a brilliant election result either. She has indeed promised everything that could be promised, for example in the field of health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u95	I thought the campaign was over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u96	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u97	I think it is very kind that the Minister of Finance wishes us to be in the government once. We very much hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u98	Absolutely, together too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u99	Perhaps one day we will have fruitful cooperation between our parties in the opposition. Maybe there won't be a government with the VVD at all. It's all still possible! But I was talking about the ruling of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Labour Party, who said that our signature is not going to go under. That is also what Mr Omtzigt's question was about. You are avoiding the question here a little bit; I would like to give you all a little bit of credit, but you were very clear on the radio. You just said that that is our commitment and if it doesn't get in, we won't agree. So the signature of the PvdA doesn't come under if it's not settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u100	I am so surprised that Mrs Leijten is surprised that this is how it works. I said on the radio that the wishes put forward by the Deputy Prime Minister and the leader of the Labour Party are perfectly legitimate. If you're in the coalition, you're responsible. I hope, once again, that it does not happen, but if we have to present the budget on Princess Day, I want to be able to support it. Then you can say, "You can't do anything anymore." Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, So we're gonna make sure there's a net purchasing power image in it. So we are going to ensure that a number of political priorities, which are urgent in the government's opinion, are included in that budget. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u101	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u102	I thought it was so clear on the radio.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u104	I also found it so clear to explain: of course we still have a mission, if we take responsibility for this. That mission is: the salaries of the primary school teachers, of the masters and the teachers who are on strike. But then the question here was, "Do you or do you not sign?" And then you're kind of avoiding the answer. It can simply follow a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u105	I'm going to explain it to Mrs Leijten again. The positive approach is as follows: When you present a budget, make sure you can back it up. If we cannot support it, for example because there is no provision for salaries in the P.A., then we will not be able to contribute to the presentation of the budget. It's like that every year. That is why I have said that I believe that putting your demands on the table is absolutely legitimate in the next year's budget. Of course, if all those demands, those wishes are wiped off the table because they could not be, you cannot expect the Labour Party to bear its responsibility. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u106	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mrs Leijten still thinks it is not clear, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u108	You must not respond to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u109	Oh, I can't respond. Okay, that's how it goes every year. We'll see. We'll finish the budget in August. I have talked about culture and the 10 million and about whether it is a task or a cut. With that, Education is ready and I'm going to V and J. There have been critical questions about this. This is also logical given the problems we have had in recent years. Mr Omtzigt has asked whether we can monitor the effectiveness of the national police or whether the law on this issue should be amended. I understand his question that although the budget, the management plan and the annual report of the national police are sent to the Chamber at the same time as the budget and the annual report of V and J, the Chamber cannot amend it directly. I see that's not his point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u110	Are you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u111	I need some explanation from Mr Omtzigt on his point about the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u112	The point is not that we cannot amend or amend the annual plan, but that is the question of ex post control. The President of the General Court has indicated that, for example, the army and the Public Prosecutor's Office can check all posts for efficiency and legality, but cannot carry out the same checks with the police. My question is whether it would not be appropriate to ensure that the General Court can see in the same way whether the operation of the police has been carried out in accordance with plan, just as he can with the army.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u113	My short answer to that is yes. I agree with Mr Omtzigt, but my picture is different from that of the President of the Court of Auditors. I shall come back to that in the second term. My view is that the Court of Auditors can fully monitor the effectiveness and legality of the use of national police forces. If it isn't, we need to take a good look at it. I'm pretty simple about that. I'd like to return to that in second term. Mr Nijboer also wondered whether things were going well with the V and J budgets. One-time power is being skimmed at the agencies. Money has been added to the V and J budget several times in recent years: 250 million and another 450 million in 2017. Those extra resources went to the police to a large extent. We are also doing a lot about the systematic, budgetary management and control of the V and J budgets. Improvements are being made in all these areas. Finance and V and J have looked together at the implementation organisations and their capabilities. In our view, it is simply possible to take away part of these own assets once and for all, without taking irresponsible risks. I think it is right that, if money is being raised and there are financial problems at the same time, we are looking very critically at this. Mr Omtzigt asked another question about ICT projects in the police force and said that the General Court of Auditors was calling for this. The General Court notes that national police have made progress in the field of ICT, in particular in the area of steering and control. It has been carefully chosen to invest first in improving ICT infrastructure in order to achieve the stability and reliability of systems, but the Court explicitly calls for attention to be paid to the renewal of information provision in the national police. That indication, that opinion of the Court of Auditors, will be taken by the Minister of V and J. He will continue this renewal with full force. Mrs Leijten has drawn attention to the workload and capacity of the police. She has also tabled an amendment on this subject. I shall deal with this in the discussion of the amendments. The same applies to educational salaries. This point is also contained in an amendment tabled by Mrs Leijten. Then a number of topics related to Social Affairs, such as the cost sharing standard. In the context of 'nothing left behind' or 'that term has often been dropped 'cleaning up corpses in the closet', we have indeed cleared up a number of things which proved no longer viable, let me put it this way. One was the cost-sharing standard. We cleaned it up. Now Mr Snels asks whether that should also apply to the shortening of the Wajong by 2018. The Wajongers with a working capacity go back from 75% legal minimum wage to 70% and at the same time these people need maximum, optimal work support, so that they can earn 100% minimum wage again. That has to do with the commitment to the Participation Act. Business is doing well in this area and the public authorities need to do better. Mr Snels also asked a question about the decentralisation of the social domain: are not municipalities now facing financial problems as a result of decentralisation? I don't have that image. There are problems, but there are also substantial surpluses. For the first time in years, the municipalities have a surplus in their budget. There are also demonstrable surpluses in many municipalities on the Wmo, for example. The idea is precisely that municipalities have much more responsibility and also have the opportunity to move within these large budgets and to solve their problems themselves. It is not so much that one cannot really say that the decentralisation has led to financial problems in the municipalities. That's pertinently not true. Then we come to the big subject of long-term care. Mr Omtzigt has asked a little more about the various collaborators within the BKZ. He asked: can the Minister at the Millions Note provide insight into all the coincidences and disappointments in the care since the last Millions Note? All the developments that are taking place at that time will be included in the Millions Note. This also applies to the budgetary implications of the quality framework. They are also included in the budget that appears on Princess Day. In the vertical explanation we will then include all the coincidences and setbacks. I can promise. In order to clarify the sector in good time for the coming year, yesterday Secretary of State Van Rijn informed the sector, and I also thought of the Chamber written in response to questions, to make another 335 million structurally available to the nursing home sector in excess of the 100 million. This follows from the new quality framework. A lot of questions have been asked about that. How did it come about? Should the Minister of Finance have known that? This simply follows directly from a number of laws applicable to the sector. Those laws were also discussed and subsequently adopted in this Chamber, Mrs Leijten. I assume the Chamber was in her right mind when she did. The Wkkgz is very important in this; Mrs Leijten knows this better than I do. The sector may establish quality frameworks under the authority of the Healthcare Institute. If the sector doesn't, the Healthcare Institute can do it itself. The Healthcare Institute can also modify or reject the framework, but one can also take over and register it. That last one happened, it's registered. At that time it was already known that it would cost a considerable amount. The CPB then looked at it. One has looked at the question of what it means when you introduce it efficiently. How much does it cost to grant these funds to all institutions, regardless of how they are run? What kind of amount are you talking about? The last point is that we need an additional 2.1 billion, structuralally, to enable this quality framework for nursing homes. The NZa is still among them, because it sets the rates on the basis of the new framework registered by the Zorginstituut (Zorginstituut). The CPB then looks at the type of amounts that come out of that macro. That is indeed legally binding. One of you asked why this was not immediately included in the Spring Note. When we drew up the Spring Note, we were working out things. We still are. For example, we want to know exactly what the total amount is going to be. The last and best estimate so far is 2.1 billion. At what rate can this be implemented? After all, the money must also be absorbed. People need to be recruited and trained. It just takes time. It's a big impulse. At that time, we did not have enough information to incorporate that in the Spring Note other than that we are now taking another step. That's the 100 million structural. So we already know that we are stepping up a further 335 million in the budget on Princess Day. As it looks now, we can cover that within the BKZ, within the framework of care. This does not, of course, apply to the whole series of long-term years. A new cabinet will really have to decide how it wants to cover that. It will have to decide whether to simply extend the BKZ, the care framework, so that it can be financed there with new money, whether to take measures, whether to make savings elsewhere, etc. Those are all kinds of possible ways to cover that rising amount. I think this is no longer up to us, but when we present the 2018 budget, we will also show how it is covered for 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u114	The documents accompanying the Spring Note still contain a surplus of 1.3% of the budget in 2021. On the basis of the new also legal reality around the care, I have two questions. I think they also apply to education, although this is another case. So if you were to recreate that table, in 2021, the surplus would not be something like 1.3%, but rather something like 1% of GDP, taking into account the legally mandatory 2.1 billion? So I understand the Minister that the Central Planning Office has already committed this both in terms of healthcare expenditure and in terms of education, and that in that sense it is simply counting on a surplus that is three tenths lower than the Minister's assumption in the Spring Note. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u115	You need to amend something. This will lose 0.2 percentage points compared to the Spring Paper for 2021 and not 0.3. We're going from 1.3% to 1.1% surplus. Before this number settles in your head again and you ask on Prince's Day, "Where has my 1.1 gone?', However, I would like to add that on Princess Day we have a new draft budget, new forecasts of growth and new estimates of budgetary figures. Then it could be different. It saves 0.2 to make it...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u116	It saves 0.2 on the care, but I have heard the Minister say earlier that half a billion in education is also booked differently by the CPB. With those three together, I came to 0.3 percentage points and 1 percentage point. But I understand it now: in the CPB method of calculation, a total of 2.1 plus 467 million is transferred, which together is about 2.5 billion dollars lower in surplus than the Minister does in the Spring Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u117	No, you can't say that again because the CPB itself has decided and hasn't yet decided on how to book certain series such as the cost of the quality framework. To answer Mr Harbers' question immediately: that depends on the way in which you are going to introduce it. This quality framework is now in place. So you have to make sure all the nursing homes meet that. You can do this in an efficient way, namely by focusing on the institutions that are lagging behind. They're gonna have to boost that. I don't go into the technique of how to do that. We call that hard benchmarking. So it is said: you have to comply and on that basis we are going to finance. Then you're going to come out at 2.1. If you put the money in this efficient, focused way, you get to 2.1. If you just say "independent of how you stand and how you do it," it costs a lot more. The cabinet of the VWS is leading the way in which it is now working on a way to introduce this quality framework and translate it into tariffs and a tariff structure so that the money gets to the right places. Then we hope that the CPB will soon write 2.1 in the Cordelia that appears on Prince's Day. That's not certain yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u118	In my words, the 1.2 billion is the minimum, plus the 467 million. And that could be even more, depending on how the CPB scores the government's measures. In any case, I see that a very substantial amount, namely 2 billion and possibly even more, plus the nearly 500 million in education, will not be included in the multiannual picture of the draft budget, even though they were still in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u119	I hesitate to go along with Mr Van Weyenberg's reasoning. He now identifies two subjects and then concludes that there are certain figures in the draftsman's report. It's just not gonna work that way. The draft resolution also contains a new growth estimate, which can be better or worse. Tax revenues may be higher or lower. The balance can therefore improve considerably, but it may also be disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u120	My question is specifically about this year, the Spring Note and the 100 million. I do not know if the Minister is going to go into that, but the specific question was what 100 million in quality impulses in nursing care would bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u121	It's very simple for us. We have chosen a different approach. We have said: we are now in the middle of the year; how much money can we make meaningfully available that this year can still be spent, for example, in the sense of more hands on the bed, in the sense of more caregivers, or in the sense of supporters engaged in day-to-day guidance and day-to-day activities for the residents of nursing homes? In six months at the moment, on such short notice, what can you make sense to spend extra money on? On top of the one-off 100 million for this year, I said: another 100 million on top of that. That money will have to go to all the nursing homes for the next six months. They will then have to recruit people; this must be spent. You say that it should have been much more and much faster, but that is virtually impossible. So that's a sympathetic but theoretical thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u122	My analysis began with the expenditure framework. The care is increased, but the expenses for care are already stuck with the Millions Note. We know that wages and prices have risen. I made a calculation of that myself on the back of a beer skin. That 100 million is about enough to compensate for the wage and price increases in nursing care. This means, in my opinion, that this cabinet cannot give an extra 100 million in 2017 to improve the quality of nursing home care: no extra hands on the bed, but a slightly better payment of the nurses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u123	I propose that I return to that in the second term, because now I understand the question very well. Mr Snels says that this money has already gone away from wages. We shall return to that in the second term. This has a great deal to do with the time when the wage and price adjustment is fixed and paid out. We will come back to that in the second term. We talked about the balance. Mr Snels also mentioned the question of terms of trade. We will also address this point in the second term. We aim to shape it so that we can introduce the quality framework by 2.1 billion. That is what we are going to include in the budget. In any case, we are going to provide cover for the year 2018, as we have provided for 2017 in all areas of coverage. For the years after, it is up to a new cabinet how it wants to free up the funds for this. In the run-up to the summer we will therefore put a lot of energy into the further design of how this framework can be achieved. Questions have also been asked about the Tax Office. Mr Omtzigt said that the tax administration's budget will fall by 600 million in the coming years. I believe that we have also had this discussion in the context of the debate on responsibility. I said at the time that this further reduction in the budget was invested in measures which, of course, are linked to the Investment Agenda. The Investment Agenda is currently being reviewed. The Chamber will be informed of this and that is the right time to ask this question again. With the new recalibrated Investment Agenda, it is possible to achieve these goals in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u124	I'm hearing some kind of announcement here: you're getting a review. It does come in the summer. The Minister adds that we will see in the review that more needs to be spent on the Tax Administration. Now that the savings in the tax administration are 600 million over the next four years, how likely is it that there will be a mega-climate around Prinsjesdag or after that on the now predicted expenditure for the tax administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u125	I always take Mr Omtzig seriously, but now he's putting things in my mouth. I said that this amount of 600 million was invested in measures, but that these measures were also linked to the Investment Agenda. That Investment Agenda is now being reviewed. Do we have the good things on track now, are they realistic assumptions, is it feasible, is it well-founded? On the basis of this revised Investment Agenda, we must once again ask the question: are all expectations, including financial expectations, still feasible? Mr Omtzigt immediately concludes that there is a major setback. I didn't say that in all seriousness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u126	What does the Minister expect to happen? That recalibrate has been going on for over six months. The Court asked for it, because after the redundancy scheme not everything went according to plan. Should we take into account a serious setback, or should we just sit back and wait for something to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u127	The Secretary of State said, and I agreed with him, that now, given the history, quality goes for time. We now really want a well-founded investment agenda built on solid ground, including the financial effects, including compliance with the 600 million open-ended mandate. Of course, my starting point as Minister of Finance is not: oh, it may be disappointing, it may be less. These financial frameworks also apply to the Tax Administration. However, the order must be: a good qualitative underpinning of the Investment Agenda. We can't afford chunks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u128	The first few hundred million will go off in 2018. I can expect whether the picture that is now being presented in the Spring Paper is realistic? Is it realistic to think that we are going back from 3.1 billion to about 2.9 billion, or is that not realistic? Or do we also have to wait for the re-examination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u129	I'm giving the same answer now for the third time. That task and that image for the Tax Administration are realistic because there are measures behind it. These measures are linked to the Investment Agenda. It's being recalibrated right now. How this will interact with each other will be seen by the Chamber on the basis of the revised Investment Agenda. That is why I say that this is the time to ask the question again in every detail: with this new Investment Agenda, can you say that we are all confident that we will continue to fill in that outstanding task for the Tax Administration? As Minister of Finance, my starting point in this kind of discussion is, of course,: yes, it has to be. Whether these two, the Investment Agenda and the targets, stay together and be realistic together, we will see as soon as those plans are in place. It doesn't make much sense to speculate now and ask if I'm expecting a setback. In any case, this is not how we get financial discipline into it. Mr Omtzigt asked a question about the tax on motor vehicles. The court in Arnhem/Leeuwarden appealed against the default fines imposed, the non-payment of vehicle tax due in good time. The Court has stated that there is a discrepancy between the fine on default and the tax initially imposed on non-temporary payments. That means we have to change the policy. That leads to a setback of 60 million. We have a windfall elsewhere in fines and orders of 15 million. So, on balance, there's a 45 million setback. In view of the many other problems at the Tax Office, we have seen this as an urgent matter and taken our loss. Mr President, I am through. I shall then come to the amendments, but perhaps I should not go into them until the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u130	There's still one question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u131	Two questions have been asked about the tax fines. The first question, concerning the fines on the Marb, has been answered clearly. The second question was about the policy of notorious defaulters. A ruling has also been made on this issue, namely by the court in Den Bosch. That has actually said that the policy is not in line with the interpretation of that policy in the Chamber. If you miss a term once or twice, you get a heavy fine on every term you miss. It's getting huge, and it's causing huge problems. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that, but I assume it can also be given in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u132	If that's okay in second term, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u133	I had asked the Minister what he thinks of the fact that you will lose exactly €1,220 if you are above the income limit for the elderly discount. Are these measures really being taken in the budget preparations? Imagine if someone gets a little indexing, even if it's only €2. Then that person goes backwards for $1,220. All tax discounts have a sliding scale. This is the only one, with the elderly, that does not apply. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u134	Mr Van Rooijen is right. Different discounts, surcharges and so on have different phasing-out routes. Sometimes it goes very steep and you lose everything at once. Sometimes it's very slow. I really think this is for a new cabinet. He shouldn't blame me. It could be that the formation is talking about a new or I shall not be too ambitious about the tax system, about adjustments to it or about adjustments to the surcharge system or to tax reductions. I think that's where it belongs. I don't think the outgoing cabinet is going to address this issue anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u135	I think that this point is so acute that the Minister cannot shift it to another cabinet or system. That could take years. We're getting a hell of a lot of letters about this. People do not understand this: if they have an income that is €2 above that limit, they lose €1,220. You can solve that by making a deductible gift of €3. Then it doesn't bother you. If you are above it, you can even get an extra €1,200 by a larger deductible gift. That's crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u136	I think we should agree that we are putting this on the agenda of urgent issues. There's a lot of them, and they're all yelling for a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u137	I had asked a question about the state of play of any consultations with the General Court. Maybe I missed the answer, but I hadn't heard. It's okay in second term, but I thought I'd call it one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u138	There's no news on that, and that's good news. We have agreed with the Court of Auditors and also with the National Ombudsman that we will look at the relationship between tasks and resources and that we will object to them. I'll check in a moment to see if there are any new developments. We have agreed in the best relations and atmosphere that we should just look at that. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether this could be done in time for Princess Day so that the House could possibly do something with it in the budget. I have promised that we will do our utmost to do this. That is still the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u139	Now for the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u140	I shall deal with the amendments and begin with the amendment to item No. 3 by Van Rooijen. This amendment concerns a substantial increase in the AOW. In general, I do not think that is appropriate for a outgoing cabinet. I did say that, of course, during the August decision-making process, we will also look explicitly at the purchasing power of older people in view of our agreement in the government agreement. I must therefore advise against this amendment. Then there is a whole stack of amendments from the SP, which add up to more than EUR 800 million. These are all additional ad hoc expenditures to be borne by the balance. I can't agree with that. I'd like to dissuade them all. That's the short version I learned from the Prime Minister. We can't agree with the cover, and that's why I have to discourage them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u141	For example, the Minister procedurally dismisses teachers, masters and teachers in primary education, as well as Q-fever patients, people who work in unsafe conditions and who cannot get through the Inspection SZW, the investments in finding work for people who need it by aldermen, culture and closing the police stations. That way, he'll take it all off at once. Why is this being dealt with in such a procedural manner?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u142	There are a number of issues that really had to be dealt with in the short term. Let me give you an example of the Marechaussee at Schiphol, where there are real acute problems. We have made additional resources available for this. Otherwise, we will face up to all the requirements in the area of expenditure and charges again in August if we have to make the budget in August, but I am not going to charge the balance for everything. It's a melee of subjects. You could add another ten. There are many societal needs, as always. You've unpacked six...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u143	I'm gonna ask the Minister to walk all six of them over to tell me why it can't be done. If the cabinet signals urgency somewhere, it can use additional resources, but if the Chamber signals urgency somewhere, it obviously cannot. Of course, that's a little crazy, because we just have budgetary rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u144	Sure. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u145	Then I think the Minister should go into the substance of why he thinks that it is not necessary, for example, to give Q support to the Q-fever patients already the assurance that we can continue in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u146	Mrs Leijten is quite right that the Chamber has budgetary law. So the Chamber can amend. However, when it comes to matters that, for example, end up at the end of this year and money for next year, we do not need to deal with them now. Then it simply belongs to the budget treatments from Prinsjesdag and the General Reviews. At present a number of additional expenses are charged to the balance, is not the choice of the cabinet. It's your decision. The Chamber decides. These are amendments that are put to the vote, but you always ask the cabinet for voting advice. The opinion was not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u147	So the voting opinion on these proposals could indeed have been other ones, because there are more needs in society.... is simply a categorical no, because the cabinet does not see the urgency. When it comes to culture and Q fever, I said in my explanatory statement that if there is no certainty about it now, people will just be saying goodbye this summer. If there's one thing that annoys me so much about the rich budget system, it's that if you don't make this kind of decision before the summer, you're gonna have to worry about building up and winding down organizations every time. The Minister will recognize that, because this has happened more often in the past. Is there any other way that we can already clarify for both Q-support and the cultural institutions so that they do not have to say goodbye to good people this summer, such as lawyers and actors, thereby compromising their continuity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u148	Another form would be to call on the Cabinet to consider it in the August decision-making process. That is not a voter's opinion to be in favour of it, but you asked what other way it could be done. At the moment, I do not think it is appropriate to amend a budget for 2018 which has not even been presented. This is the spring note. It is about the implementation of the current budget, of 2017. The coverage, simply at the expense of the balance, is extremely vulnerable. I do not want to say that this is the end of the story, but it is very easy for the Chamber to simply point to the surplus as cover in future. One could be the overall balancing of different priorities - purchasing power; education could also be one - which would not be achieved. Because we're gonna show it to you on Prince's Day. Then we present the total of the budget and weigh everything. Then you can give your judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u149	Finally, Mrs Leijten, you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u150	I just find it very sad that the cabinet says: we set the priorities and the Chamber picks it out, he asks for it at Princess Day. I asked about certain institutions. We are talking about nothing in the state budget, but we are always referred to: no, we have to do this by amendment; no, we have to do that in another debate; no, we have to do that by motion. So that just doesn't make the cabinet listen to what it needs. Then I would prefer the Minister here to say 'Q-support we just don't think' or 'we don't think those cultural institutions are important' rather than toss it on the system every time. It's a bit of a political hide-and-seek game, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u151	This is a classic Leijtenbetoog, in the sense that accusations are thrown to the cabinet that are out of place. I didn't say you'd figure it out. Nor did I say that we do decide what the priorities are. In the end, that's up to the Chamber. The Chamber decides on the budgets. It is the right of the Court to propose amendments to them and they are simply put to the vote. If you ask me for an opinion, I would say that I think that a great deal of this should be considered either at Princess Day or in the case of amendment within a budget. For example, the VWS budget is a very large budget. You could also make an amendment to find EUR 2 million inside. You do not choose; you choose to charge it all to the balance. I wouldn't advise you. I come to the Van Rooijen amendment (34730-XV, No. 5). That is an amendment to the SZW budget. I don't know if I'm supposed to respond to that, but I almost think I am. This amendment aims to add EUR 18 million to the funding budget for training vouchers. This scheme will first be evaluated, which will better reflect the impact on the labour market position of applicants. The amendment lacks cover. That's why I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u152	Mr Van Rooijen is already standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u153	The Minister has also understood that the pot is already empty. The scheme is so successful, important and essential for young and old, that I urge the Minister to consider whether he can give a positive opinion on it. I would just like to refer to the discussion he had with Mrs Leijten. This is perhaps the exception to the golden rule: that pot is empty because it is finally something that works, unlike, for example, the large job plans to tackle older people's unemployment. They cost hundreds of millions and didn't get anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u154	I do not know whether Mr Van Rooijen also had this debate with the SZW leaders. If he has not had the opportunity, I can ask them to respond in writing to this amendment. If he wants to have a substantive debate with me on how good this instrument is, I am not really the right person to do so. Then perhaps it would be better if the govern ment in question were to react to this in writing before tomorrow's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u155	Would you care to share this with your colleague from the same club?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u156	You don't have to add that "of the same club," because even if it had been someone from another club, I would have...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u157	No, I mean from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u158	Ah, from that club! The other amendments are all from the SP and are all to be borne by the balance. That's why I don't recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u159	I see that there is another amendment tabled by Mrs Kuik and Mr Van Nispen. That is Amendment No 34730-VI, No. 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u160	This amendment, too, does not provide adequate coverage. I would also advise against that amendment for that reason. Consistent!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u161	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term of office. We can start with that right away. I call Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u162	Mr. Chairman. I said it in my first term when I quoted Mr Swank of De Nederlandsche Bank: things are creepy in the Netherlands. Despite all these positive sounds, no one in the Netherlands is making a dime of progress, while the Prime Minister has said: it is time for everyone to feel it. But no one can feel it. Only this Minister of Finance. He gets a record in taxes, which is 8 billion more than expected. And yet no one gets a dime on it. In fact, pensioners, the working poor and the breadwinners are even declining. As the sun shines everywhere, it continues to rain in the living rooms. I still see Mark Rutte standing when he said, "If the economy continues to grow, the burden will go down." A budget rule has even been drawn up to achieve this. And yet no one gets a dime on it. After the summer, new rules may apply with a new coalition. But how long will the Netherlands and pensioners be fooled? I have another question about inflation. I didn't pay much attention to that in the first period. Purchasing power has fallen, as inflation has gone from 0.5% to 1.6% over nine months. There are now sounds that inflation is falling again. I wonder why inflation has gone from 0.5% to 1.6% in nine months. As if the oil price has gone up so fast or the dollar has gone down so hard! I didn't see it. That is why I wonder if this prediction of the CPB still has a topical value.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u163	We must make it clear to ourselves: Mr Swank of De Nederlandsche Bank. We'll remember that. I call Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u164	Mr. Chairman. When I hear the previous speaker, I think it will be the art of giving a short summary of your speech in the first term in the second term. In my case, that means that there is still a great deal to be done. But the place where we're going to do that is at the formation table, as far as I'm concerned. As I made clear in the first period, therefore, I do not feel that I should now support all kinds of amendments which are the only ones to cover the balance. That sounds to me a little bit like: now give out just as quickly and the shelf life will come later. We've seen that before. I don't think that's the right approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u165	Yes, I see Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u166	I heard Mr Harbers invite me to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u167	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u168	Quick distribution when it comes to charities is populist and flat. It's okay. You can do it yourself. Then you do it through the cabinet and you call it important decisions. If there is no money, there must be savings, and in the same year. I see the opposition leader, at least the opposition leader of the left, Rutte, who tabled a motion of censure against the then Prime Minister Balkenende, because he was not going to cut back, immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u169	Do you remember that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u170	Yeah, I remember that. Mr Omtzigt was there at the time and Mr Tony van Dijck, by the way. Mrs. Arib was already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u171	I've been there a long time. And Mr Dijsselbloem was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u172	So at the moment when there is a shortage of money, we need to cut down on the peddle: the whip over the citizens! But if there is money: no, no, no, we have to be careful. That's exactly what the VVD does. The VVD is always looking at "how can we cut as much as possible?', Instead of "where are the problems in society and how do we ensure that we have enough together to meet the needs?" That is precisely the political debate, and that is exactly why we are not sitting at the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u173	And I thought it was about the basics. While Mrs Leijten was having that debate here, I was watching TV. Mrs Leijten is twisting history a little bit. We have never made all kinds of cuts in spring notes during the year. This famous motion of censure has been submitted to the general reflections on the millions note. The point was that the cabinet did not want to make the necessary cuts even before the following year. That's the orderly way of doing things. I have argued this here throughout the first period, namely that you do not do this in spring notes and that you certainly do not do it in the middle of the year, because then you will have huge implementation problems in order to get it to the good people. There are more needs than just the 800 million mentioned by Mrs Leijten. There's only one place to weigh all that against each other. Mrs Leijten mentioned the agents, but we also have teachers and all kinds of other groups in society, such as defence personnel. I can name dozens of them. Then we would be helping a few groups here in a hurry? Then I'll give you a note that tomorrow many other people will be dissatisfied again, because they haven't been helped today. Let us therefore do it right at once. Thanks to these basic principles, Mrs Leijten does not want to take part, but we are now entering into this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u174	It only shows that, at the moment you're in the opposition, you're quite opportunistically able to file a motion of censure if you don't agree with the policy. It's not about trust relations anymore and you name it. That which the VVD now does about every time, she used to do so herself, when she was in the opposition. So it's not about the moment you do something, it's about the political priority you give it. You argue, like the Minister of Finance, that it is so very good that something has been done for the Marechaussee at Schiphol Airport. Of course, it would have been hard to explain to all those people who went on vacation and then had to stand in line for too long. There's money for that, but we've known for years that in the countryside you don't have to call the police if there's a break-in. No political priority is given to this. What I've been trying to do today is indicate that you can help both the masters and teachers in primary school as well as the cops and keep a budget surplus and do something about the government debt, if you want. That's what's sharp on the table here. You may give any procedural reason not to, but you simply don't want it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u175	I don't want it because there's a better place to do it. It's about weighing how you deal with the interests of all Dutch people. I had hoped that Mrs Leijten would have felt a little touched by the final words of my colleague Mr Van Weyenberg. If you yourself have an election programme in 2012 that is far from close to a budget surplus, it is very easy, once there is a budget surplus, to come here and report to the microphone to spend it. I think that you should exercise restraint to wait until there is a cabinet that is going to see how we deal with public finances in an orderly manner over the next four years and what we can and can not arrange for as many Dutch people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u176	A brief final remark, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u177	I understand that the VVD mentions 2012 when we chose a different strategy to get the economy in order than cuts and increase burdens, which is your strategy. But it is also typical that you did not take our 2017 programme as an example, because it was clear that our fiscal policy led to more purchasing power, lower public debt and less unemployment than the VVD. Anyway, you can say "you don't take responsibility," but we do take responsibility. You don't just take responsibility in this parliament when you're in the government banks. You take responsibility by saying yes or no to anything with 150 people. You're going to say no to six proposals tomorrow. That's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u178	The strategy of the SP was exactly the same in 2012 and 2017: short-term good figures at long-term sustainability costs. The shelf life of the SP was severely reduced. Then Mrs Leijten may, in the first term, grumble that that is in 60 years' time, but she also knows that the Central Planning Bureau said that almost all of these effects occur within ten years. So it's four years of scoring and six years later on the puffy life at the expense of subsequent generations. That's not what the VVD chooses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u179	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u180	Mrs Leijten, you will have the floor in a moment. Mr Harbers, will you not provoke Mrs Leijten after this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u181	Well, Mr. Chairman, I haven't...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u182	Mr President, I will not comment on what Mr Harbers is arguing about my party after this, but I would like to say something before the record. If everyone goes to the budget chapter and our party's billing, that is precisely the exception to what the Central Planning Bureau said generically about entering that sustainability, namely that it did not apply to the AOW measures that the SP had and that it had to do with the fact that they would only fall 60 years later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u183	Don't respond to that, Mr. Harbers. That was a point Mrs Leijten wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u184	I call on everyone to read that chapter on sustainability very carefully. For the rest, the Minister has said sensible things in line with my expectations. He has established that it is a complicated period. I did so in the first term, and that was also the conclusion of the first term. He also said that inflation and the impact on purchasing power are a given during the year and that the Spring Paper is not a purchasing power repair debate. I hope that after the summer we will be able to have that debate in the millions note. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for his explanation, and I do not know whether it was a commitment on long-term care funds. He said that, as a political one, we can talk later about how we are going to introduce that quality framework. Once again, I have already said in the first term that this is something that the VVD also wanted and with which we have also been the farmer on. Suddenly it was there and it was also legally binding. I think it is very good to look at it in the form of benchmarking too, so that we will soon be able to know for sure that, and to check whether, that money does indeed end up in the right places, where it is also absolutely going to contribute to the increased quality that we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u185	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the government for the answers. I am very curious whether this is indeed the last plenary debate with this Minister of Finance. That is a great question mark over this debate. Unfortunately, tomorrow he will not be able to attend the final act because he will be at the G20. In view of the fact that the Dutch Government can join, I can imagine that he represents the Netherlands. I've heard his exhortation. However, I would like to make a few comments on the answers. I did not get an answer to my question about the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment's intention to do anything about enforcement around thezzp law. That was one of this government's major projects. She would do something against all those who invent all kinds of constructions that don't belong tozzp'ers. We needed a new law to do that, which resulted in thousands ofzzp'ers losing assignments, but in the end zero fines have been passed in enforcement. Now I'm not about to hand out as many fines as possible, but if you have a law to enforce and you don't manage to enforce it against all those crooked clients, you're doing something wrong. I would say to Minister Asscher: if you still want to do something this summer, you should take a look at that. I wonder what the move with the ABP premiums was exactly, a few hundred million for ABP premiums that also created pay space, including in primary education. I am very curious to see why that was not in the explanatory statement, but we will soon get that explanation. I welcome the commitment that we will hear on Princess Day how the healthcare budget works. That is the biggest item in the budget. Social affairs and care are the two biggest chunks of the budget, and I have to tell you that it is sometimes quite difficult to understand how that money is being spent. I also await the answer to the question of fines. Fines have to be distributed, but the notion of "notoir" was interpreted rather sloppyly, giving people a huge amount of fines on fines. Here, too, the IRS has been flagged back by the judge. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court is currently unable to conduct a comprehensive audit of police expenditure;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the General Court of Auditors, to examine how police expenditure can be placed under the extensive investigation possibilities of the General Court and to submit a proposal for this at Prinsjesdag 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34730-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u186	That leaves me, hopefully for the last time, to thank the Minister for Finance, also for taking good care of the treasury. He leaves a surplus, partly thanks to the policy that has been pursued here. I wish him that he wouldn't cause a small bet on that in the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u187	Mr. Chairman. You think there's gonna be a big wish, but there's always an edge to it. But it's okay. I would like to discuss three more points, starting with the Chicken/Van Nispen amendment. That was thrown into that very large set of uncovered amendments, but I want to get rid of it. The 1.5 million for mediation is simply covered within the budget of V and J. The amendment is properly covered, as you are used to from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u188	An amendment with cover deserves, given everything that is present, a rather special consideration. That's the exception today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u189	Not with us!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u190	It's meant to be positive. I tried to give a generous compliment...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u191	It was a remark with no edge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u192	Mr Van Weyenberg was so on his way to the Omtzigt camp today that I am completely surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u193	No, I like to stay at the Van Weyenberg camp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u194	It's in the Acts!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u195	I have a question about the cover. We found an amendment by your former colleague Recourt that was once covered in exactly the same way. We wonder to what extent money that has already been used in the past is now being re-used. I note from Mr Nijboer's body language that this is not the issue, but we suddenly find exactly the same cover as the one adopted by the Recourt amendment. I thought I'd give it to you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u196	That may well be possible, but then you must give me the amount; I do not have all that anymore. I think it was 1.5 million once. This is another 1.5 million. If there is a budget item of 20 to 30 million, you can use it to cover that two times 1.5 million. I have two motions. The first one is addressed to the Chamber. I was satisfied with the government's response to the purchasing power picture. But as you know, this cabinet is a missionary. I think it is important, together with Mr Snels, for the Chamber to give its opinion on a balanced purchasing power picture. Whatever cabinet there is, Princess Day will need a balanced purchasing power picture for the PvdA, which also benefits low incomes, middle incomes, benefit recipients and pensioners. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that according to the purchasing power picture in the Central Economic Plan, the highest incomes are significantly higher than modal and lower incomes;]] [[noting that people with a pension or benefit are even at risk of falling back;]] [[Whereas everyone in the Netherlands should benefit from economic recovery;]] [[calls on the government, when drawing up the 2018 Millions' Note, to take measures to ensure balanced income development, with the highest incomes not improving more than the rest of the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34730-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u197	I wonder why the motion is necessary, because the Minister of Finance is so extensive and passionate that it is actually a compliment that has said that a balanced purchasing power policy and salaries in primary education should be included in the Labour Party, because otherwise it will not participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u198	That's right. But it can only be that this summer we will have a new cabinet, which still wants to make the purchasing power decision at the last minute. So I would also like this missionary chamber for the coming months, in which the purchasing power decision is taking place, to make this statement in mid-August, so that a new forming coalition is also bound to it. Indeed, this Minister has promised that. That's what I said generously. The motion is not addressed to the outgoing cabinet. She's a statement from the missionary chamber that we do attach to. Otherwise we'll be back from recess or the second week of September and we'll just have to see. That's the value of this motion. She's not addressed to this outgoing minister. A verdict is requested from the missionary chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u199	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u200	Then you can just put the outgoing minister in a position where he doesn't get a mission and isn't actually allowed anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u201	No, it's not, because this minister is standing for his signature. This is now well known and has just been changed. So I have no concern at all about the outgoing cabinet on this point. I come to my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas in December 2016, the Chamber through the Vermue c.s. amendment EUR 10 million has been allocated to cultural institutions and companies (e.g. performing arts) which had a positive assessment but did not award an adequate subsidy;]] [[Considering that this allocation of additional resources for 2017 has not yet been made and that no financial allocation has been made for 2018;]] [[calls on the government to come up with an adequate financial solution for these institutions and companies on Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34730-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u202	You will understand, Mr President, that I hope for the warm support of D66, as we have always worked together on these cultural institutions in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u203	Mr. Chairman. You make Prince's Day arrangements on Prince's Day. I had hoped that I could have welcomed Mr Nijboer and his party with the same enthusiasm in the Stadhouderskamer, the place to live up to all the ambitions for the coming period. This all feels a little gratuitous anyway. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. Also for the clear answer that there is a mandate of 467 million for next year on the OCW budget. He has also made it clear that this amount is no longer reflected in the CPB amounts. It's good to know. The measures relating to care for the elderly mean that there is no surplus of 1.3% but rather of 1.1%. That's less than it seemed, but I'd like to end with a positive note. I will try not to stick Mr Omtzigt's edge to it. We could not have suspected at the start of this cabinet that it would succeed in getting through the crisis, with unfortunately often very painful measures in difficult times. The good steering skills of this finance minister have ensured that public finances stand in a way that I, too, had not thought possible at the time. For that, the compliment is no different than sincere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u204	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. I am still waiting for an answer in the second term to the question of the extra quality in nursing care 2017 and whether the 100 million do not go up to prices and wages. That's what I'm curious about. In addition to the previous motions tabled by my colleague, Mr Nijboer, I have another motion which has been co-signed by Mr Nijboer, which deals with the education deficit policy. All for the sake of whatever cabinet there is, whatever coalition there is, the decision-making around the Millions Note. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a new funding system has been developed for the distribution of funds for the (municipal) deficit policy, but that due to the missionary status, the State Secretary chooses to maintain the current system for 2018;]] [[Considering that this will result in a decrease in the education deficit budget in 2018 for both municipalities and primary education of around EUR 65 million, and that this will mean that municipalities and primary schools will have to cut their educational disadvantage policy next year;]] [[Whereas educational backwardness policies contribute to equal opportunities for each child;]] [[Calls on the Government, in the 2018 budget, to refrain from the planned decline in the education deficit budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34730-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u205	Mr. Chairman. Every year, the budget of everything is consolidated. If a decision is taken to obtain less gas in Groningen, posts will be pushed. This is done within the frameworks that can be money or deficit, but it can also be between posts. But when an opposition party says that there is money left in the general budget and we would like to use it to prevent the closure of police stations and to ensure that the driving times in rural areas are not too large, but that the declarations can simply be recorded in urban areas, then that is all uncovered. I think that's weird. The money is there, and the government can move it all year round, and it can do so because it is the administration of the country, but if the Chamber is a co-legislator and certainly also with budgetary law, then that is not allowed. It's probably all the same that it's common for you to blurt that out, but I'm very sorry that everything always has to be weighed up and that the moment you come with a wish, you're too early, you're too early, you're too early until you're too late. Then you can give a you-bake to a party that then tries to do something, but that's just not part of it. This is supposed to be a serious debate. You will only be master or teacher and strike for more salary, hear that everyone wants that, see in a debate that there is money left and yet hear that it is untimely to introduce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u206	I think this is a misunderstanding. It's okay. All these amendments are legal and legitimate and they all have cover. So it's not that I can't. This Minister of Finance says for his miraculous reasons that he wouldn't do it, and that's why he betrays the amendment. But you can file that and the cover is clear. Some we support and some we do not support when it comes to more money for culture. It is then the destination that determines and not the cover. So it's okay, and there's nothing going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u207	And yet here the groups of the CDA, D66, the VVD and the Labour Party are consistently talking about uncovered amendments, which is, in fact, wrong. I think you should say that anyway. Of course I know the rules on the frameworks. I spent years looking for extra resources for care if we wanted to move something. This has also been a regular success in budgets and sometimes at other times. I know how it works, but it is actually said here by all the groups that they are uncovered amendments, and that is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u208	That's incorrect, and it's called framing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u209	Yes, indeed, that's called framing and that's why I'm using way too much of my speaking time to explain that that's bullshit. Thank you for your support. I hope there will be another moment when you can embrace the culture. I'd like to file another motion. There are aldermen who say they'd love to escort young people to work, but they can't do it with the budget. I did not include it in an amendment, because it concerns 2018. I understand the system. I am therefore going to ask whether the aldermen can be taken into account when making the budget, and I will do so in the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u210	Madam President. The Minister has learned from his boss, the Prime Minister, that you sometimes have to answer amendments briefly, with one word. "Disguised," in this case. Three million AOWs won't be happy about that. They have to note that the AOW has not been prosperous for decades, even in recent years. The AOW has increased by 5% over the last three years, while the national product has increased by almost 9%. I've talked about windfalls before. As a result of problems encountered by the municipalities, also following letters from the VNG, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the provision of welfare benefits, the basis for the minimum subsistence level, is a legal task for municipalities;]] [[Considering that the macro-budget for the implementation of the assistance in 2016 has a deficit of 270 million, that 90% of the municipalities fall short of their budget for the assistance, and that ensuring the minimum subsistence level is put under pressure;]] [[Whereas there is also a tight budget in other parts of the site;]] [[calls on the current and upcoming government, in close consultation with the municipalities, to provide structural, adequate funding for these municipal tasks, such as Wsw, protection regime and special assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34730-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u211	Finally, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my special appreciation to Mr Omtzigt for his financial policy in recent years. I know from an earlier past, from the seventies, that those lids are difficult. Mr Andriessen resigned on his own at the time. That had never happened in the Netherlands. He was given insufficient confidence by his colleagues; I will not mention any other names of that cabinet. I note, however, that the Van Agt/Wiegel cabinet returned in 1981 with a financing deficit of almost 11%. Surely that is a difference from this Minister's legacy! I may be going to talk to the Minister about these fiscal conditions again, but I will not do so at the moment because of the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u212	Mr. Chairman. I see that some of my predecessors have already thanked the Minister in detail and also said goodbye to him. Could it be that I've missed the fact that we already have a new cabinet? I thank the Minister for his reply, but I suspect we will see him again. I also see that he is more than happy to give answers, although he himself indicated that he would like to hand over the stick to his successor as soon as possible. In my first term, I spoke about the importance of raising wages, hence my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that De Nederlandsche Bank, the Central Planning Office, the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund have recently pointed out the importance of wage increases in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Minister of Finance supported this call after the last Council of Ministers;]] [[calls on the government to translate these words into action as much as possible and to inform the Chamber of how it is going to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34730-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u213	My next motion concerns the development of purchasing power. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that after the acid, the vulnerable in our society should now share in the sweet;]] [[Whereas there is a budgetary surplus;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to concrete proposals for converting the estimated loss of purchasing power among benefit recipients into purchasing power growth in 2018 in preparation of purchasing power policies ahead of Prinsjesdag and to ensure that the estimated standstill in purchasing power development for low-income workers is converted into purchasing power growth in 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34730-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u214	This motion is quite similar to the motion of colleagues Nijboer and Snels. Of course, they can sign with me. I'm reading my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the spring notes, the government does provide an analysis of macroeconomic effects but does not analyse purchasing power estimates;]] [[calls on the Government to provide an analysis of purchasing power estimates in the spring notes from now on,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34730-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u215	Apart from the political objective, I think we just have a CPB piece with a purchasing power estimate. I think Mr Azarkan saw that. We deal with purchasing power once a year or does Mr Arzarkan intend to apply the whole system of the budget and purchasing power twice a year? We're doing that now with Prince's Day. I share some of his concerns, but I'm a little afraid to let Princess Day happen twice a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u216	I don't remember saying we should do that twice. I say that we do have an interim note and analysis, but that the purchasing power estimates are missing. My proposal is very simple, namely that we are going to add it to the CEP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u217	I think they're already in the Central Economic Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u218	They're already in there, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u219	Not from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u220	But I'd like them off the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u221	The Minister can't whisper. It's called souffling. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Is a five-minute suspension enough? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u222	Mr. Chairman. There were some loose questions. I also have to say something about some of the amendments. Then I'll go into the motions. I think that's the right order. Mr. Omtzigt went into the police. A motion has also been tabled on this subject. So I shall come back to that later on in my response to that motion. Mr Omtzig's confusion over the 300 million... No, I shouldn't say that, because of course he's not confused. We have presented it confusingly. We are releasing 300 million extra, because the higher ABP premium, which is simply a matter for employers and which needs to be financed, is, of course, at the expense of the wage area. That is why we have made an additional 300 million available for the wage package. More specifically, his question was which part of it now benefits the education sectors. That's about 200 million out of 342 million. That is the exact amount we are making available. Of these, 200 million is for education. This is an additional 0.83% of the wage bill for education. This does not mean that all sectors of education are now getting an increase of 0.83%. It's not like that. At the moment, I cannot state exactly the wage area by sector. This also has to do with the fact that the impact of the increase in the ABP premium also varies from one education sector to another. This depends on the salary composition of the employee in question in education. We are talking on average about 1% of the sectors concerned. Of the 342 million, 200 million are earmarked for education. That is 0.83% extra to the wage bill for education. In there, it's also more differentiated. This additional wage space in education comes on top of the wage space in 2015 and 2016, which was again on average in the education sector, i.e. across the sectors, plus 5%. In 2015 and 2016, therefore, 5% extra wage space has already been created in education. For this year, with this 200 million for education, we are creating an additional 0.83%. Then Mr Van Dijck asked again about inflation. He said: if it is so much higher at once, what are the budgetary and purchasing power figures worth? Inflation is estimated and determined beyond our control. This estimate will, of course, become more reliable throughout the year. This year inflation is higher than Princess Day expected. That's a gift for us. Mr Omtzigt asked about the enforcement of the law by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I assume he means the DBA. I don't quite understand his question. If I think badly, I understand that Mr Omtzigt believes that the DBA fines should now be issued while the cabinet has said that it is taking time, that the introduction of the DBA will have more time and that employers and stakeholders will have more time to get used to the new system. I thought the CDA supports that, too, but Mr Omtzigt apparently wants fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u223	I filed a motion together with D66 in 2016 to start with fines for people who bottle the case apert. So it's not aboutzzp'ers who have a job and maybe an hour too much work in relation to the model contract, but about those people who force dozens of people as a zzp'er to work what are actually employee relationships. That's what the law was meant for. The Secretary of State for Finance noted that it was once the aim to be able to address this category, which could not be addressed within the framework of the VAR. This would mean that the client could not be held liable and therefore no fines were still paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u224	I suggest that the Secretary of State for Finance comes back to this. He regularly sends reports and letters about the DBA Act to the Chamber and then he will discuss it. I would like to make a general comment on Mrs Leijten's amendments. She said, "It's a shame, it's not allowed. I think Mr Van Dijck is right: it can all be done. If I used the word "uncovered," then I apologize, because they are not uncovered. The cover is found in the balance, because it is at the expense of the balance. We must be careful in this. It's just not our choice. We have, of course, made a number of choices in the preparation of the Spring Paper which have a political weighting. What do you think is a political priority right now? There's also a restriction in it. We're missionary and what do you do and what don't you do? This means that we do not want these amendments to be charged to the balance at the moment. So it's okay, it's up to the Chamber, but this doesn't change my judgment. Mr Van Rooijen spoke of my boss, the Prime Minister. I had to think about that. I have never experienced him this way; that is not the right indication under state law either, but it is not Mr Rutte's leadership style either. I never thought of him as my boss. He does indeed have a skill in dissuading motions and amendments with a great gesture. I thought I could use that, too. Then I come to Mr Snels' question, which fears that the extra money for nursing homes will be spent on wage and price increases. That's not true. His reasoning is probably: because inflation is so much higher, we have already lost the money. The wage and price adjustments specific to the care take place earlier and are therefore much more limited. The prices in the care are fixed. This is happening earlier than for the other budgets. The sharp rise in inflation is not reflected one-on-one in the cost of wages and prices in healthcare. So it really isn't. The 100 million can really be used to improve quality in healthcare. I have not yet responded to the amendment on item No. 7 by Mr Azarkan. This amendment concerns the protection of prayer homes. It is a theme that is dear to the heart. There will be no vote these weeks or we will have to vote, mostly by roll call, on the security of prayer houses. It is a subject that we are also concerned about, at least we are paying full attention to the security of prayer homes. We are convinced that this can simply be done within the resources available and to the extent necessary. The coverage of the amendment is found in the balance and I do not support it. The subject is a matter of concern, but can simply be financed within regular funds. I do not recommend the amendment to item No. 7. Then there is another one on which Mr Nijboer has come back sharply. He said stop! Wait! This can't be happening. There is cover for this. It is the amendment in part No. 4 by Mrs Kuik and Mr Van Nispen. I can no longer agree with him that the funds had indeed fallen free, but have already been used differently, partly indeed for amendments tabled by the Chamber itself to the V and J budgets. At that time, some of these funds have not been used entirely, I say to Mr Van Weyenberg, and the remaining funds have now been used differently by Minister Blok. You're exactly right, so you're going to ask me exactly what the money was spent on. I would therefore like to give you a brief letter, before tomorrow's vote, from the Minister of V and J, in which he can indicate exactly how much money had been released and when and where else they were used. This means that the coverage of that amendment has been waived. You can include this in your assessment of the amendment. So I'll give you a brief letter on that. There is another outstanding question from Mr Omtzigt about a second ruling on...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u225	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u226	We are both a little bit at the border of the Justice budget by one and a half million, I taste it to the Minister, and that certainly applies to myself. However, it is possible for the Chamber to find that the use of the cabinet for these unforeseen resources could be better made of this use. Even if Minister Blok suggests this and says that he wants to use this post unexpectedly for these matters, it may be that the Chamber decides that mediation is more important. It seems to me that the PvdA Group deserves that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u227	I can suggest that, when that brief letter from the Minister of V and J is in, so that you can see exactly what the means have now been used for, you decide not to submit the amendment with this coverage or to indicate specifically in the explanatory statement of the amendment where you choose an alternative use. Suppose a piece of the money was spent on the police by the minister of V and J, but you think mediation is more important, you indicate that that part of the police should be used differently. I see Mr Nijboer enthusiastically shaking no. It was just a suggestion. You will receive further information on what these funds have been used for. I come to Mr Omtzigt's question about a court ruling which also deals with fines. I cannot give an adequate answer to that at the moment. I do not like to do that and I prefer to do it in writing, because then I am sure that we will give a good answer to Mr Omtzigt. I'll give you a letter from the Secretary of State for Finance. Then I'll get to the motions. The first motion by Mr Omtzigt, in part No. 4 deals with the powers of the General Court of Auditors with regard to police expenditure. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. In all cases, I am prepared to consult with the General Court on the operative part of this motion, because I believe that the General Court should have this power. If there's a limitation in that, we really need to look at it. That is my view. Judge Room, then. Mr Nijboer's motion and Mr Snels' motion for a resolution 5 is about a balanced income development. A balanced income development is the starting point of the cabinet. That is what we will do. The addition is very specific. That would be an effort obligation. I hope that we will succeed. Balanced income distribution is the start and end of our purchasing power discussions. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 6 by Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels on the 10 million. It's a call to Prince's Day. I have to be strict; that's my role. Motions must also be covered. This motion calls for money to be released for something, but motions are not free. I advise the motion because I don't see a hand-off on how we could find cover. The same applies to the motion in part No. 7 on educational backwardness policy. They're topics that are sympathetic to me. By the way, the motion is not entirely correct. The problem would be that the new system would be postponed. That's not the acute problem. The new system would in any case be a solution for a number of municipalities. The problem is that the budget has been brought in line with the number of low-skilled parents. And that's a lot lower than a few years ago. And so the budget has been adjusted downwards. That's where the big cut, if you like, is on the education deficit budget. This also applies to the fact that I do not have any coverage, and this is currently problematic in the Education budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u228	In itself, I agree that motions should always be covered. These are two themes, the backwardness policy and the culture, for which the House has always stated its support for amendments in recent times. It is true that the budgetary framework for this cabinet period has expired. It shall be re-established for 2018. What we are hopefully doing with broad support from the Chamber is saying to the Cabinet: these are the priorities that need to be taken into account in the new budgetary framework. Then there's really more room. It's getting better economically. Either way, there is more room in the budget, or there is more room for burden relief, or there is more room for expenditure. I think it'll fit in. If it does not work, then we are obliged to make amendments covered by the budget. We will certainly do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u229	That certainly happened before with the 10 million for culture. So that's conceivable. Of course we understand these signals from the Chamber, but once again, motions that are not covered will have to be discouraged. The same applies to the motion in part No. 8 by Mr Leijten and Mr Jasper van Dijk. This too, the guidance of pupils coming from secondary special education, practical education, seems to me to be a point which deserves absolute attention. It is about extra money without indicating where it is to be paid out. I'm dissuading the motion. I come to Mr Van Rooijen's motion on item No. 9 on the problem of the implementation of assistance by the municipalities. There would be a setback in relation to the previously available budgets. We are working with a macro estimate which is adjusted during the year, but in the end it is for better and for worse. In some years the municipalities are short, in others they have money left. That is not what we are here to pick up. I've talked to aldermen about it and they're divided about it. Now that there is a shortage, some say: this is a very bad system. Others remember that there was regular money left over in recent years and that they were allowed to keep it at that time. It's for better and for worse. You shouldn't throw that system overboard too quickly. Sometimes it's bothering you, sometimes it's an advantage. I'd like to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u230	A motion was adopted on 14 June this year by the Assembly of Members of the Association of Dutch Municipalities, in which, despite the various points of view, all of them were asked to deal with the 270 million deficit. Only 90% of the macro budget is covered. Will the Minister take this signal to the next cabinet meeting? This is a big problem, because the municipalities that lack money are going to tell about all kinds of important things I have just mentioned. We shouldn't want that with each other. There are plus-municipalities, but there are also heavy-min-municipalities, and the aldermen have written us many letters. Fortunately, the Minister is also aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u231	I am also aware of this, as well as of the fact that there are differences of opinion. I'm not gonna change the system right now. We really need to be careful that, now that things are bad, we suddenly don't want that system anymore. In good years, no one has complained about it. So I'm in favour of us holding this. I can imagine that a new cabinet will discuss some of these issues with the municipalities: do we want to maintain this system? But then you have to hold on to that system again, and not ad hoc, if it's a problem, say: now I want a different system. That's my objection. I reached an agreement with the municipalities at the start of my period as Minister of Finance on a number of issues at once. That was for four years. That was about the Wet Hof, the VAT Compensation Fund and so on. There was one package and an agreement was reached on it. Then we don't deal with each other all the time, but that's how we do it. The same goes for this. A new cabinet may say that it will do this differently if the municipalities so wish, but that is consistently different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u232	But I understand that you will take the message and, if you are involved, might consider a new agreement for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u233	This question has several hypothetical investors, namely that I am involved, that I would then consider it et cetera. This cabinet is not going to revise that appointment. I can imagine that the next cabinet wants to weigh that again, but you are now asking the present cabinet. I'm not gonna go over upcoming Cabinets. The current cabinet will not change the system. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u234	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u235	In the motion in part No. Mr Azarkan's 10th question is a raise in wages. Sure, I called for that, but I'm not going to force it. I think this is up to the social partners, taking into account the differences between sectors. The motion has therefore been carried out, namely with my appeal, and I will continue to make that appeal because I think it is an important point. I can't carry out the motion further, so I have to discourage her. The motion in part No. Mr Azarkan's 11th report deals with the development of purchasing power. It is requested to convert estimated loss and forecast standstill into growth. I think I need to be consistent. On the motion by the Labour Party and the Green Left, I said that we are striving for a balanced purchasing power development; I also left the judgement to the Chamber. That should therefore apply to this motion. The cabinet approach is a balanced purchasing power development. We'll see about that in August. I shall therefore also leave this motion to the House. In the motion in part No. 12 calls for an analysis of purchasing power estimates in the spring notes. I'm not gonna do that. I would advise my successor not to. The CPB does indeed present a purchasing power image, so that people know how things are in reality. But as soon as the cabinet devotes its analysis, Mr Azarkan will also say: and what are you going to do about it? We do not want to have to adjust taxes, premiums, supplements and so on to all kinds of budgetary moments throughout the year. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. That's 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u236	The Minister's answer wasn't about your motion, was it, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u237	No, it wasn't mine. But I would like to make the following point. When you submit an amendment with coverage for cultural institutions, it is not possible, because the coverage is not shared. If there is a motion with the same meaning and the call 'then arrange it at the time the government says it would be timely', it cannot be, because there is no cover. In this way we are going round and round and it is just very clear that if the Chamber wants something but the government does not yet want it, there are always arguments to be found in whether the cover or the missing cover to discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u238	I really disagree with Mrs Leijten. Eventually, the Chamber decides. It belongs to the craftsmanship of parliamentary membership to ensure that a proposal, an amendment, is supported by a majority. I'm sure Mrs Leijten will be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u239	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-5.u240	The motions and amendments tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
