ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u1	I am the first speaker from the Chamber to give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the third debate today from probably the last three debates with this Secretary of State. At least I hope there's a government statement in a few days' time. Mr. Chairman. I think today's three debates are exemplary. I also draw conclusions from this, although the Secretary of State is clearly not ready to do so. This morning's first debate on palliative-terminal care clearly demonstrated that this concern was misplaced in the system and that it created the sad state that people cannot die at home. In the debate just now, it became clear through another approach that, although a lot of austerity measures have been taken, the costs per older person have remained the same. Many provisions have therefore been removed without achieving the savings targets of the Secretary of State. And then there's the third debate we're having right now about fired employees being asked back. Actually, this third issue is my biggest annoyance. I really don't think you hang out with people like that. In the past period, under Rutte II, 77.000 people have been released from care. That is the balance of redundancies and recruitment, of inflow and outflow into the sector: 77.000 less. This means that, if things get worse economically, there will be a policy in our country that will get everyone out of it. And if the economy is getting better, everyone has to come back. Like I said, we don't deal with people like that! I really think it's one of the worst things that's happened. And who says these people will come back? Who says they haven't been working long as a security guard or in the hospitality industry, where they probably deserve a little more, and don't come back to the care business at all? It also bothers me that the layoffs are still going on, and especially the layoffs at level 2. A lot has been written in recent weeks about the legally enforceable quality framework, but that includes those people with level 2. Then how come they're still getting fired? Should we not very soon call to order all those institutions that are still firing level 2 employees and say that these employees are within that legally enforceable framework? It is insane that the Secretary of State writes in his letter in response to the intention for this debate that until 2022 some 100,000 to 125,000 new people are needed. That's weird! What kind of cabinet throws 77.000 people out to say that in a few years' time we're gonna have to add 125,000 more? The UWV says 105,000 people are already needed. I ask the Secretary of State in his, probably, final debate about his very last words towards those 77 000 redundant workers and the people in the nursing homes and the elderly at home, who now simply lack enough people to take care of them. I ask the Secretary of State what his last words are for the staff, the nurses and the nurses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP, the second speaker from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr President, thank you very much. Last Monday, I was in Lopik. There, caregivers take action, because they have to take responsibility on their own for more than 60 residents of a nursing home and shelters. You hear it right: be responsible for 60 people on your own in the night. That is not only irresponsible, but also unsafe. These caregivers take action, not for themselves, yes, a very small amount for themselves, but especially for the residents, because they feel that they deserve quality care. You can't offer them if you're alone in 60 residents. I have brought their stories; they have gathered them together. I'd like to hand it over to the Secretary of State, in case he hasn't seen them yet. I ask him not only whether he is aware of the situation, but also, of course, whether he intends to listen to the ladies who are currently taking action. I'm also asking him if he's gonna intervene there. Indeed, Mrs Agema has already referred to it. We have talked so many times here in the Chamber about the occupation standard, but the practice of the day shows that it is still far from being put into practice in all places. We find this poignant and unacceptable. Today we are talking about the layoffs that have fallen. That's 77 grand. That's just a decent city in the Netherlands getting laid off in health care. And now they're actually much needed again. In particular, many people with level 1 and level 2 have been dismissed. I remember that from my time as a union manager. Then I had to go all over the country to talk to healthcare organizations. Everywhere they flew out. And indeed, Mrs Agema is right: to this day it continues, whether it is HWW Zorg or the Sand, which is in the newspaper today. That's where 200 people start from level one and level two. 200 people! And that is when we are discussing at the same time that there is a shortage of staff. How are we gonna find these people now? How is it that they are still being fired today? And then, Chairman, what to do? Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers made a nice proposal in the newspaper last Saturday, we thought. That was basically just: sending a flower and a big apology letter to all those people who have been fired in the past period and who we now have to ask again if they want to come back to work in the nursing homes. But I don't think just excuses and flowers are gonna be enough. An action plan is needed to ensure that working in nursing homes will become really attractive again. And that is not an image campaign, but that is really about improving the quality of care and working in healthcare. We believe that more colleagues, less workload and more appreciation are needed for the people who do the work, also to ensure that the people of level 1 and level 2 who have been laid off in recent years feel invited to return to work in the care of the elderly. We shall table a motion for that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. The document you have offered to the Secretary of State will also be copied for the members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with the two previous speakers that we are now in a very strange situation. So many people have lost their jobs in healthcare and now we are trying to bring them back in. That goes a long way for these people. This affects their quality of life, their security and the situation they have put their families in. So I think we really shouldn't think too lightly about that. But we have a task now. How do we get these people back? I think that we need to look at a number of issues for that. First of all, of course, it is about security. We must offer these people security within the care and indeed prevent them from going back to health care. That starts with consistent policies. We need a government, a government, that says we're gonna do it this way over the next few years, and we're not gonna joy between cutting and intensifying. These people in care need to know what they're up to. This also means something for the public procurement policy of municipalities. Local authorities must also provide security to institutions so that they can actually pass that security on to their employees. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he sees a role for himself to address these municipalities on a prudent and responsible procurement policy. Then the influx. We read in the letter from the Secretary of State that the influx of MBO courses is still barely increasing, while those MBOs are very much needed. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he has sufficient regard for this particular group. How will the Secretary of State, in cooperation with OCW, ensure that more students will follow these programmes? Training is also a very important part of the work. If people want to continue to work in care, they also need to be able to develop. It is precisely about training in nurses and caregivers that give me very worrying signals, namely that there is hardly any training budget for these people. And that's what they have to offer perspective in their work. You have heard all the stories that there is €100 educational budget for an entire department. Of course you can't. There is still very little clarity about what exactly is going on with these training budgets. So my question to the Secretary of State is whether he agrees with me that it is important to have an overview of the education budgets for these groups in the first place. Finally, technology. I think it can help a lot of healthcare workers if they are also well supported by technology, for example home automation. For district nurses it is valuable if they feel supported by this technology. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he agrees with me and whether he agrees with me that this can be improved. In short, if we want to address this problem of recovering workers from care properly, we will have to pull different strings. One solution is not enough. I am very curious to hear the Secretary of State's response to my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you. I shall then give the floor as the fourth speaker on the side of the Chamber to Mrs Bergkamp of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like my colleagues, D66 is concerned about staff shortages in healthcare. It is good that the labour market agenda 2023 "At work for the elderly" is in place. There's a blueprint. In any case, we want to use this debate to ask a question about it and perhaps give a little push in the direction that we now consider necessary. Let's take a quick look at this. We have read in the article in the Algemeen Dagblad that people are asked back into care and that their expertise and knowledge is needed. I'll share what my colleagues have said. It is, of course, distressing if you are fired first and then asked back again, especially now that it turns out that personal attention is necessary. At the same time, I would also like to ask the Secretary of State and give a warning that we are not going to hire these people when we know that what is often asked for is more complex and sometimes also calls for a different type of care. It would, of course, be poignant if we had a zigzag policy in it again. Does the Secretary of State recognize this? Can he say anything about it? Last summer, after consultation in the sector, the labour market agenda was established with a lot of measures supported by D66. Attention is paid to the lateral influx and reintegration. It is, of course, important that all these agreements are respected. Agreements are made at national and regional level. The question arises as to who is actually in charge of the whole. Of course, the quality of our care depends very much on how these vacancies are finally filled out. You have a responsibility of the organisation itself and of the social partners, but it seems to me that the department of VWS has a clear role in this too. I'd like an explanation. Two words that we hear more often are innovation and technology. My colleague from GroenLinks has also paid attention to this, as has the Secretary of State in his letter. How are we going to implement this? How do we ensure that the necessary innovation and technology can actually be applied in practice? In order to preserve people, good working conditions and career conditions are important, career opportunities for growth. We see that the scales between hospital care and nursing care may be similar, but that people often enter nursing care at a lower level and have less prospects of growing, because there is less specialisation. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Finally, the imagery. Imaging is important for people to eventually opt for nursing care. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? In recent weeks, two nuanced reports have been published by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Of course, every report has its demarcation and limitations, but I see a lot of negativity about those reports. When we talk about nursing care, it sometimes seems like being positive isn't allowed. I'd like a reaction to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr. Chairman. My predecessors have already appointed it. Many tens of thousands of people who have been laid off by health care institutions in recent years are now personally recruited by the same institutions with the request to return. I agree with the previous speakers that this is, to say the least, harsh. This sounds and feels very contradictory to the people who are involved, but it is good that they are being asked back into service, because we need these people very much. What amazes me in reading the article in the AD that, despite the staff shortage, some health care institutions are still trying to lose staff at levels 1 and 2. Can the Secretary of State state state whether this is correct and how he assesses this? Can the Secretary of State also indicate to what extent health care agencies are part of the procurement of care in relation to the requirements imposed on the staff? There is a plan to create 32,000 additional training places and that is very good, but it will take a few years for those people to get to work. The labour market problem is a long-term problem, but the question is what we can do in the short term. In the short term, extra hands will be needed to ensure the quality of life of the elderly and to prevent the care staff who are present from undermining the large amount of work. For example, the CDA is thinking of the example of Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers. They advocate the use of side-intromers, also mentioned in the labour market agenda. According to the experts, the side-intromers could be used already after a training of only two weeks under the supervision of a qualified care worker. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether this rapid training approach is possible with the use of side-intromers and whether he considers it desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you. As the last speaker from the Chamber, I now give the floor to Mr El Yassini of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we want to be able to count on good care for our grandparents, our parents, ourselves and our children. Every day thousands and thousands of people are committed to providing adequate care in the Netherlands. We are proud of all the helpers, caregivers and nurses, but we also face challenges. The ageing population makes us all older and needs more tailor-made care. That is why we need to focus on a good mix of staff, from helpers to specialist nurses, and a mix of competences and educational attainment. We notice that we need more and more caregivers and nurses while we are struggling with cramped and unfulfilled vacancies in healthcare. This deficit could reach 125,000 healthcare professionals in 2022 if we don't do something now. That is why it is a good thing that people are being asked back to care, because that is what we need. It is not helpful for us here in the Lower House to constantly enlarge every incident and only speak negatively about labour market policy. It does not do justice to all those people working hard day in, day out and providing good and loving care. It may well lead to young people and side-instromers not wanting to choose a job in health care anymore. That is why we also agree that VWS should provide additional resources to improve the image and recruit new staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u13	This leads to an interruption by Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr President, thank you very much. A question, though. You say, Mr El Yassini, that a campaign is needed to improve the image. You are also actually calling for the labour market not to be said to be negative, but how do you look back yourself? You are partly responsible for this as a VVD at about the biggest layoff round since the Second World War? In the last ten years, 77 000 health care workers have been laid off, and it is impossible for you to speak positively about this, once again because we are concluding with each other tonight that we actually need them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u15	For the VVD it is important that we create good care for our grandparents and our parents. Indeed, this includes a certain level of care and care provision. We haven't cut back on nursing care, and you know it yourself. But we have implemented reforms in the area of domestic aid. It is important for us to ensure a good mix and a good balance. This means, in fact, that the complex question of care is a question that is becoming more and more complex, and that the right people belong to it. That also means that on the one hand we must ensure that we have those helpers. Those are the people who can sometimes have a cup of coffee or a cup of tea with a lady who wants to stay at home and need care. On the other hand, we also need the specialist nurse who can really handle complex issues and who really is much more specialised in the care that is needed at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u16	This surprises me. The helpers who are being so acclaimed here deserve that, but they have also been pointed out as a result of your policy in the past period. I just mentioned in my term that I was invited myself to come and talk about all these firing rounds. And to this day, it continues. Do you now regret this and, if so, are you prepared to send these people an apology letter? Are you going to apologize to those people by sending them a big bunch of flowers? Are you going to make sure that the workload in nursing homes is reduced by more colleagues and more appreciation? I'm asking, because only then will these people really feel invited to come back to work at the nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u17	As I told you in my story, we definitely appreciate the people who get up early every day to go to jail and help people. This includes the fact that we are looking for the right balance, as you can understand. This also means that we must do something about it when there are outliers, either too many over-educated or too many helpers who are under-educated. There must be a good mix. Where the care question is present, we really need to look at the needs of, for example, people who want to live longer at home or people who are present in a nursing home. What kind of help do they need exactly? The balance sheet is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u18	I find it a little disappointing that Mr. El Yassini of the VVD actually opposes the opposition: you should not speak so negative. But the debate we are having here is about the fact that 77 000 people have been released from care during the past cabinet period. I didn't make that up; it's just from the Ministry's figures. Now the case is that the VVD in 2012, so before this government started, it had a slogan to recruit voters. That slogan was jobs, jobs, jobs. But what the VVD didn't say was that she was gonna break down those jobs. And you don't want me to talk negative about it? Surely that is the reverse world!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u19	Our call from the VVD is precisely to ensure that we seduce people who are looking at home now, for example those in pre-university education or those who think that care is something for them, to actually choose care. What doesn't help, I repeat, is that we make every incident very big again, making it look like it's a big deal of trouble and torment in the care, while there are tremendously cool jobs in the care to get to work. We need these people as much as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u20	The people sitting at home are sitting there because they've been beaten out of their jobs by the VVD. The VVD campaigned with "jobs, jobs, jobs," but did not mention that it was going to make those 77 jobs disappear in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u21	You mean 77.000?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u22	Seventy-seven thousand. That's the balance. 77.000 fewer people have jobs in health care. That's terrible for those people. They went to work elsewhere and now they have to come back. That's not how you treat people, is it? Why doesn't the VVD just apologize for promising jobs but breaking 75,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mrs Agema pictured it as if we've opened some sort of booth where people came in, and the entire VVD group was there to send the people home. That is not the case. What have we done? We have made choices for reform. We've looked at the complexity of the care question. There's an ageing population. We're all getting older. For the VVD, the following is important: it is one of the four issues in the labour market agenda 2023. We are particularly committed to maintaining staff for the future. This means that we would very much like to see employers also look at investment. For example, employers need someone at level 2 or level 3. We would like them to look at whether people can flow through. Can they receive a training course at some point? Because we need these people very much for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u24	There is another question from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u25	I agree with Mr El Yassini that the imagery is very important. The moment you decide which sector you're gonna work in and what kind of job you want, you're gonna look at what's said about it. But I cannot escape the impression that the VVD, especially in the last two years, has also regularly requested debates on incidents in nursing care. When I hear your story, I say through the chairman, I assume that the VVD itself will be a little more selective in requesting debates. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr El Yassini, will you be more selective in requesting debates?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u27	Well, Mr President, I think I have told you very clearly here that we will be able to rewind and look back on Debate Missed that it does not help if we do so here in the House of Representatives. I think that "we" is just very important. We really need to look closely at how we look from politics at the people at home who are watching right now. The image of the care should also be good, so that people say: after my havo, after my mbo, after my vmbo, it seems nice to choose a job in care. Again, these people are really needed. As I said, 125,000 vacancies for 2022. So I'm sure we can all just scratch behind our ears and ask: how can we make sure we help improve that image?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u28	Thank you. A final question from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u29	I couldn't agree more. But when it is said "we must improve our lives," I always think: start with yourself. I always feel that way about the word "we." But I understand the argument and I therefore assume that the VVD, once again, is also more critical when asking for debates, because we are indeed contributing to those incidents ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u30	A brief response from Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u31	I would like to repeat once again that it is really very important that we also think carefully about the image of care and how we give examples. Then, of course, we look at ourselves, but it is also an appeal to the House of Representatives to ensure that the image is as good as possible, so that people will soon feel like a job in health care. Because once again, we really need these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u32	I would like to come back to those 77 000 jobs. I would actually like to put a very simple question to Mr El Yassini of the VVD. Don't you think it's annoying that these people lost their jobs first and that we are now trying to get those same people back into care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u33	Let me say first of all that we have had a very violent crisis in the Netherlands. For everyone who's lost his job, that's terrible. That's what we really feel about. That's just annoying. We in the VVD have said that we must make certain choices, even when it comes to reforms. This also means that we have made savings in the area of domestic aid and that we have considered exactly what the question of care is. We're all getting older; there's an ageing population going on. The question of care is also becoming more complex. So what type of people do we need and what should we bet on? Again, the VVD keeps repeating that it is important to have a good balance and a good mix between the helping, the caring, the nurse and the specialist nurse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u34	I hear Mr El Yassini saying that we actually need all kinds of people in care. Now it was nice news that we had all those kinds of people. But of all those kinds of people, a lot of them got fired. Shouldn't Mr El Yassini admit that the policies and reforms in this sense were shortsighted and that it was not well enough thought out what task was ahead of us in the future? Shouldn't we have invested much more in the potential development and education of these people instead of hitting them at the heart of their existence? They've lost their jobs, with all the misery that comes with it, and now with hanging legs to go back to these same people to bring them back in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u35	Again, I repeat: if you lose your job, it is indeed terrible. On the other hand, the need for level 3 and level 4 is much firmer and more intense and later, in the future, also becomes while many people who lost their jobs were often level 1 and level 2. Mrs Marijnissen also mentioned this. There is also a need for more caregivers. This also means that when we implement reforms, a situation can arise that people lose their jobs. Again, that's terrible. So it also means that we have to take care of this balance, including for the future, and that mix of helpers, caregivers and specialised nurses remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u36	That's the point you made. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u37	I honestly wonder whether Mr El Yassini realizes that the people in a nursing home who need some heavier medical care also simply need attention, that they also need to go to the toilet every day and that they prefer to take a shower every day. That is precisely why the people of level 1 and level 2, who are now massively put aside, are so desperately needed, even in nursing homes. My first question is whether he realizes that. My second question he actually provoked a little, sorry, by going into the incidents. When every week these so-called incidents come along, can you really still speak of "incidents"? Shouldn't you just acknowledge that there's something structuralally wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u38	In response to Mrs Marijnissen's first point: fortunately my mother still lives at home and I really like that. My colleague, Mrs Hermans, has also said that even if we do not let our parents live at home, but eventually let them go to the nursing home, we want them to have the best care. No matter how much that hurts, we want to be able to close the door with peace of mind and go home quietly because we know they're in good hands. We need certain people for that. This includes helpers, people who help people to get up, wash themselves and go to the bathroom. They are certainly needed, but on the other hand you need people who can provide heavier, more complex care, especially in nursing homes. That's why the mix is so important. I am therefore looking in particular at the question of the care of our older people. What do they need at the time and how can that be filled out? I did not write down Mrs Marijnissen's second point. Would she like to repeat that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u39	That was about you pointing out that we're talking too much about incidents here. I was wondering if there was something structural wrong, if there were apparently incidents here every week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u40	No, I don't think so. It is important for us to look at the overall picture and the overall policy. Where are the bottlenecks, where are we supposed to pick up certain things and how do we take care of them? We are system guardians in certain matters, but also system controller from the Empire for other matters. Where are these bottlenecks and how do we deal with them? I often notice that we immediately jump to the microphone in the regulation of work when there is an incident. Then it looks like it's all trouble and torment, while thousands and thousands of people get up early every day and really get to work to ensure that we can get good care, both for us and for our parents and for our grandparents. We should also really be careful that it doesn't seem like it's just trouble and torment, because we have to seduce side-instromers and people who want to choose a career in care to choose care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u41	A final question from Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u42	Yes, but if Mr. El Yassini wants to seduce people to start a career in health care, then it's extra gruesome that 77 000 have been thrown out. Anyway, we've talked enough about that. That's one. Two: read what people are saying in this report, which is specifically about nursing home workers who are now in action. I was there on Monday. When applicants are told that they are going to be working the night shift on their own and are responsible for 63 clients in the nursing home, they think: I'll look a little further. People are going to go to court, I don't think they're gonna take that responsibility, because that's unacceptable. Would Mr Yassini agree to that? How does he feel about this? Or does he think that's incident policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u43	Also in this case: if my grandparents or in this case my mother are in a nursing home, especially in the night, I just want them to have good care and everything they need for that. It just needs to be arranged. How do they do that? Well, just make sure it goes well and make it happen. Again, that's where we need these people. That is why we must ensure that people are tempted to choose a job in care. That is why we must ensure that we keep people who are already in care. That is why we must also focus on side-intromers, because we have considerable challenges, including for the future. We are very aware of that and we are going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u45	Yes. The VVD also wants to use innovation and technology to make people who use care more self-reliant, but also to facilitate and improve the work of professionals. We need to involve universities, companies and centres of knowledge in order to be able to take great steps. By using technology in this way, we offer healthcare professionals more space to maintain human contact, which is so important in healthcare. People must continue to be able to count on care in the future, for our older people and for ourselves. We need good staff; I cannot repeat it often enough. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u46	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has asked for a moment to be suspended, so we're going to do that very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u47	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America for the first-term answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input. Like the previous debate, this is a debate in which we look back and look forward. Then I notice how much times have changed and are subject to change. When this cabinet arrived, there was a financial crisis that was unprecedented and it was all hands on deck to ensure that the care we have organised could also remain sustainable and reachable for future generations. The measures and reforms, as well as other causes, have also led to major changes in employment. Let's be clear about that. The crisis in the Netherlands has led us to go from an unemployment rate of 6% in 2011 to 8.6% in 2015, not in healthcare, but simply in society. The cabinet has taken responsibility by saying: we want to ensure that, despite this crisis, care for the future remains sustainable. We want to ensure that people without a thick wallet will be able to get affordable and accessible care. We have chosen to organise care more closely and to take more account of personal circumstances. We have said that, in many cases, care may need to be organized on a smaller scale, not with large institutions but much more with smaller institutions, and that we need to ensure that we can operate on a decentralised basis. We want less government in care, and we want as many people as possible engaged in direct care delivery rather than with all kinds of overhead. And yes, those measures were very difficult, but they were very much needed. They led to a reduction in employment, layoffs and people looking for another job. That sucks. But let us not say to each other that these measures were unnecessary. They were necessary for the financial future of our country, they were necessary for the sustainability of care, and they were also necessary because we want to organise care closer to the people. Yes, that means that there is a shift in employment. I very much appreciate all the staff who, despite all these changes, have managed to continue to work with the best of care and support in the Netherlands. I, too, naturally felt that these measures were accompanied by job losses. Let no one tell me that we have not worked incredibly hard to face the consequences as much as possible. We have done so by agreeing with the Chamber on a number of mitigations, such as the removal of the 500 million reduction in long-term care and the cuts in domestic aid, and additional measures and delays in the reduction in counselling. We have worked with national and regional sector plans, in which almost 70,000 people have been offered training and training in this difficult situation. Where there have been or threatened bankruptcies, I have been meddling in such depths to see if there is any other way to maintain employment in this area. We had the household help allowance. I can go on for a while. Mrs Marijnissen, the cry'shoulder to shoulder' may be a bit wrong, but we were standing side by side, both to see if we could conclude a care agreement at the beginning of the period and to talk about how we could ensure that a real price was paid for decentralised contracts. We have also been able to set together a labour market agenda. I believe that was still with you, because then you were still working at the FNV. We all did that because, of course, these measures are very painful, but they were also necessary. We had an eye and a heart for its impact on people and employment, and we took everything out of the box to minimise these consequences, all at that time. At the same time, the labour market is in full swing and is changing very sharply for the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u49	There's been an interruption by Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u50	I am truly amazed and stunned by this speech by the Secretary of State. There is no "we." There is talk of a VVD and a Labour Party. There are parties who have supported the cabinet with an autumn agreement and a care agreement. But never, never was my party a part of that. We have never or never supported any kind of dismissals in the care sector. We have fought them at all times. And look what a show it's become: 77,000 people out and 125,000 people in a few years. It's a disgrace. That's not how you treat people, is it? Now we don't need you anymore, because things are getting worse economically, and you'll be welcome again, because then things will be better economically. You're not gonna do that, are you? That's not a civilisation, is it? I can't distance myself from that beyond that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Chairman. It is true that Mrs Agema has not taken part in a large number of these proposals, not even with a number of proposals for softening them, and we have taken everything out of the box in order to maintain as much employment as possible. Perhaps Mrs Agema does not agree that measures were needed. But we were in a huge financial crisis in which the sustainability of the healthcare system was at stake, including for future generations. We felt that care should be organised differently: more small-scale, closer to the people, perhaps with other institutions. We said to each other: if we bring responsibility to a decentralised level and provide more care in the home situation rather than institutional care, we need less institutions and more human care. Then there will be consequences, including for employment, no matter how worthless. Then you can expect me not only to take responsibility for changing care so that it can be sustainable in the future, but also to take everything out of the box to alleviate the consequences for people as much as possible. I have tried to indicate what we have all done, tried and sought to bring it about. Perhaps you do not agree with these measures. Then you say that nothing really had to change in the care in the Netherlands, that there was no crisis, that care should not be closer to the people, that care should not be smaller or that there should not be less government. They're all people. Care consists of human work. If we change that, we can discuss the necessity. But if care is made up of human work, it also has consequences for people, no matter how worthless that may be. Then we have an expensive duty to limit these consequences as much as possible and to give people who want to have a job in health care as soon as possible. I welcome the fact that with these measures we have succeeded in making care forward-looking and that the financial crisis has been combated in such a way that we now have room to invest, for example in nursing care, which in turn leads to more employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u52	There is no "we." Even when it comes to the economic crisis, there has never been one of us. We have always fought this and now we are no longer alone. Economists of Rabobank, ING and so on have all said that it was not because of Rutte but because of Rutte, that Rutte II probably deepened the economic crisis and that we could have been much better off in the meantime. So stop this whole story. It was the order of Brussels, that 3% standard. There were also projections on VWS that were suddenly changed. The 2014 budget was still talking about an increase in the AWBZ of 2 billion a year, but later it disappeared. I've written a book full of 31 mantras of this Secretary of State, and all 31 mantras have been destroyed. Apparently, the Secretary of State hasn't read that at all two years later. I hope that in his next position as hospital director he can take that book with him and look back at that whole period afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u53	I would indeed like to thank Mrs Agema for the book she gave me, including the one she wrote in front. We read it at home, too. But everyone has a right to their own opinion. You can say: there was actually no financial crisis, we did not need measures that would lead us to organise care differently. You can have your opinion and say that you didn't think any of that was necessary. We thought it was necessary. This has led us to take everything out of the box to make sure that we survived the financial crisis. We took everything out of the closet to make sure that despite these major financial problems we could keep care sustainable. We have managed to gradually make sure that there was financial space to invest in nursing care, which indeed offers prospects for a lot of people who can work in care. We can differ on the necessity. I'll give you that. You have a different opinion on this, but this is what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u54	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u55	Thank you, Mr President. The Secretary of State refers to the memories he has on the shoulder-to-shoulder when I was still with the FNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u56	Maybe I should have said "near each other."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u57	I remember, above all, that we were on a stage together when 20,000 people wanted to make their protests loud and clear against the austerity. I also remember you coming to the Achterhoek, when the first major discharge wave arrived at home care organisation Sensire, where 1,200 employees were fired by the front door and allowed to come back through the back door as an alpha helper. Does the Secretary of State still believe, now that he looks back, that this has been a good response to the economic crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u58	The survival of that financial crisis and making sure that our healthcare system, which we can be very proud of, is affordable and accessible, also for people with a narrow scholarship, and will remain sustainable in the future, that we get more personal care, less institutions and small-scale care. Yeah, I worked on that with my heart and soul. And yes, I am pleased that we have achieved a number of results. Yeah, I'm glad it's become sustainable. Yes, I am pleased that we have now found financial space to invest in the necessary improvements to nursing care. And yeah, it sucks if it has employment effects and you see people losing their jobs. That hurts me too. I have also tried to take everything out of the box, together with the employers and with the workers, to ensure that we are going to minimise these consequences as much as possible. You will remember that I said at the same meeting to which you are referring: Ton, come to the table, let's see together how we can mitigate and combat these consequences and how we can create prospects again. I'm glad you did. I am still pleased that we have been able to take that responsibility together, despite all the differences and despite all the differences about the need and the causes, and have said that it is important that, in the light of this changing labour market, employers and workers should not only be able to work side by side, but also to ensure that there is a new perspective for people. I think we have a perspective now. In fact, that perspective is changing because we are now facing deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u59	Thank you. Ton is the former chairman of the FNV Ton Heerts, is my guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u60	That's right. I assumed Mrs. Marijnissen understood me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u61	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u62	That was my suspicion, indeed, Mr President. Yeah, I remember. But I hope the Secretary of State also remembers that, among others, my predecessor Renske Leijten has so often pointed out here the great risks, the great dangers and the great problems that we as SP had and have with the mass cuts that have led to mass redundancies. Anyway, that's it. Maybe now we'll go to the future. I also asked in my first term whether the Secretary of State would like to comment on the fact that 77 000 people have been thrown out of the way in the last period, and the Secretary of State calls that worthless, and I fully agree with him and now turn out to be necessary again. Does the Secretary of State feel like it and is he willing to send these people a thick bunch of flowers, but above all to set in motion an action plan? If there's a new cabinet right away, it won't have to happen again. Then it's on the shelf. In any case, let us not work on an image campaign, but actually make working in care more attractive by providing more colleagues, less workload and more appreciation. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u63	Flowers are nice, but people want perspective. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen. That is precisely why we have created the labour market agenda together with employers and workers. That is what we have done to ensure that not only for the short term, but also for the medium term and the long term, the labour market in care, which is becoming tighter as a whole, and that working in care is attractive, remains and becomes where this is not yet the case. I shall go into that in a moment. But, yes, that's right. It is not for nothing that we have said with great unanimity that the labour market is changing very much, and that means that we have to take a number of measures together, bearing in mind that this change is not just that there was first job losses and that there is now employment gains. That is also in the knowledge that Mrs Bergkamp has already said that it is not one-on-one, that there are other training requirements and that we may need to do re-training and further training. Perhaps we should not impose high training requirements everywhere, but also see if we can get people with different training or lower training in other areas of care, sometimes with shorter or longer training. Yeah, that takes a lot of action. That's exactly the agenda we're building together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mrs Bergkamp has another question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u65	Yes, Mr President, although the Secretary of State has almost answered my question by adding a few more words. I have a very specific question, to clarify it a little more. In the interrupting debate with Mrs Marijnissen, it was said that 77 000 people were fired and that they should all be re-employed. I'd like to know a little more precisely. We know that, in particular, domestic helpers have been fired, the nurturing levels 1 and 2. Looking at the vacancies that exist, I would like to have a little more detail in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u66	There are actually two movements visible. On the one hand, the point at all that more people in care will be needed by demography and by increasing the demand for care. On the other hand, there is the fact that in addition to the technical care provision, for example in nursing homes, people need to be paid attention: activities, daily spending and just for a walk with someone. Ensuring this can create a lot of jobs. At the same time, and you pointed out that, we also have to deal with more complex care questions, which require specializations, which require training, for which one is well able to follow that retraining, retraining and further training, while another may not have the right to do so. It's en-and. So it's not like you can say that 77.000 people are gone, they can be taken back one-on-one. I hope to a large extent, sometimes with retraining, retraining and retraining, sometimes in another job, in another place or with other skills. But sometimes we don't; then we need specializations. So there is no clear, simple answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u67	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. As I said, the labour market is now in full swing. Employment has been growing since the second half of 2016. The current forecast also shows that deficits are threatening. That is why, in July, we agreed with social partners in the labour market agenda 2023. At work for the elderly, in which the joint commitment is aimed at attracting more people into care, not only with new and labour market campaigns, because I very much agree that you may have to do so, but that you should not expect the full benefits of this, but also train them, from other sectors and from people who have already worked in care. Very, very important is also the part about how we ensure that we keep people who are now working in care; bind and cuff. Appropriate policy in the workplace, absenteeism, more permanent contracts, more the same faces, continuous development, Mrs Ellemeet mentioned that already.............................................................................................................................................................................................. I think that will have to be a very important part of the labour market agenda. And indeed, as a third point, the use of innovation and technology, already mentioned by several Members, often to support and stoop to the heavy task of the caregivers. Through the healthcare pact, the Quality Impulse Staff Hospital care as well as other projects, we ensure that innovation and technology get a further boost. VWS supports this with nearly 350 million for the coming years for labour market and training. With these resources, a lot of people can also go through qualifying training courses. A lot of targeted training can be set up in which we focus on new influx, side influx, re-enterers and retention of employees. Mr. Chairman. This too will be a long-term issue, sometimes with long-term results, sometimes in the short term. I am pleased that we are seeing in different regions that parties with this agenda are increasingly starting to find each other. New agreements on placements and sometimes internship guarantees. In Noord-Brabant, employers under the name of Zonder Zorg have agreed the ambition that they want to achieve fifteen placements in a structural way per 100 employees. In Zeeland and Gelderland work is done with internship guarantees. In Limburg, cooperation is being developed to interest theyintromers in care with concrete training places and internship opportunities. We are working with the training institutes to ensure that more training is provided. The influx of the HBO Nursing programme increased from over 5,000 students to over 6,600 in 2016, and an additional 2,000 are expected for this school year. The labour market is therefore in full swing. This means that we can implement what Mrs Marijnissen calls the action plan in very close cooperation with employers and employees. We have had a discussion on this recently. That's kind of the directing question. I shall return to the specific questions. You can see it's actually on different levels. Labour markets are often very regional. This means that regional employers and regional workers agree on how to proceed. Collective agreements are important: what about working conditions and training? But also at national level, we have agreed that municipalities, insurers, employers and employees will monitor how these agreements are going, so that we can also tell each other at national level where things are going well and where things are not going well, and where we can possibly stimulate them. In short, I am glad that the labour market agenda is there. It will be important not only to provide perspective and employment for those who need it, but also to simply respond to the huge labour market developments that we are about to see. Mr. Chairman. I now come to a number of specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u69	A brief interruption by Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u70	A very short one, Mr. Chairman. It's about the labour market. How does the Secretary of State look at the actuality of the day? Today, for example, there were messages from Zwolle. Yet again 200 layoffs, level one, level two, while we are here talking about getting these people back into the nursing home. How does the Secretary of State look at this and what is he going to do in concrete terms now to stop these kinds of dismissals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u71	I cannot, of course, judge a specific situation, because it may have to do with the question of care and how it is with the institution. We have also agreed with the social partners to see how we can create much more job security, as Mrs Ellemeet has already asked for it. Then you see what other functions there are within the organization, how you can retrain, retrain, and if there are jobs elsewhere in the region if there is no other way. Those regional agreements are very important for this. This is what parties are doing much more than before. Of course, you cannot look at this per institution, because there are very specific situations. But in the labour market agenda, social partners also agreed that you should not just look at the job security perspective for your own cluppie, but that you should look at it more broadly, including in the regional context. I see that's what everyone wants. There's no misunderstanding about that. A specific situation per healthcare provider can lead to that not yet being the case, but we will monitor this with each other. That is why we agreed to this monitoring. There were a number of specific questions. Mrs Marijnissen drew attention to the discussion on the occupation standard that was not achieved in practice in Lopik. Two things. One is that we have made the 2.1 billion available for a reason. This will mean that this quality framework will also apply to the institutions where the best is the norm, which we have just discussed. If there are now signs that will allow you to discuss whether the quality of care is in order, I will bring it to the attention of the inspection from my responsibility. I will certainly do that with the document she gives. Mrs Ellemeet asked whether I also see a responsibility for a responsible procurement policy. Yes, that's the case. One of the agreements we have made is that we have come in close consultation with employers, employees and the municipalities with an AMvB to ensure that a real price is demanded, so that the tender is fair and fair. We also agreed that we would exchange signals and knowledge, that there would be transparency on how the contracts would be conducted and that we would set up a national monitor with each other to see if this would work properly in terms of market conditions. That consultation will also take place with me, or with my successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u72	A brief question from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u73	These real price agreements are, of course, very important, but they are also often about the duration of the tender. I hear from the institutions: if you have a contract for only two years, you will not invest in employees. So the problem is also expensive. Is that on this agenda, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u74	If you talk to each other about creating more security and job security and making innovation agreements for the longer term, then it is often necessary to make longer-term agreements. Municipalities are in a bit of a dilemma. On the one hand, they want to do this and are going to make room to see how you can make arrangements to get security for the longer term. At the same time, it has often been said in this Chamber that you must also have innovation and that you give new small institutions the room to ensure that good care can be provided. So municipalities will have to keep looking for a balance between making change with the existing institutions, where more certainty needs to be given, and keeping room for innovation, where you do not take everything for granted, but also give small new institutions the opportunity to work in a new way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u75	It is often complicated that innovation does not occur until there is multiannual certainty. Sometimes you have to switch.............................................................................................. Is this also a topic of conversation? Does the Secretary of State actively interfere with this, or does he leave it entirely to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u76	It is primarily the responsibility of municipalities, but it is not for nothing that we have agreed with each other that national monitor. How's the contract going, anyway? What is the experience of municipalities and healthcare providers with the contracting? Is there sufficient attention to continuity of care on the one hand and renewal on the other? So yes, that is indeed a subject of consultation between those parties. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ellemeet also asked if we had sufficient attention to the influx, particularly in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science. Yeah, that's definitely the case. This also applies specifically to the question of MBOs, on which she asked a question. Firstly, we are doing this with the additional resources we have provided for the retraining, retraining and retraining of new people. Secondly, we agree with parties at regional level on sufficient traineeships so that a regional approach can be adopted. At national level, the Ministry supports this approach. You can see a lot more overlap now. Healthcare institutions, together with training institutions, agree on how training takes place. Sometimes the training comes into the care institution, so that you can operate much faster, care training becomes more practical and the connection between education and the labour market is closed, especially at MBO level, where this is perhaps the most important. Still not everyone who drains the training automatically finds a place in the care. The link between the labour market and education must therefore be much stronger. That is indeed being worked on together with OCW. We are trying to reflect the training budgets in the VWS budget, which the government is also encouraging. It is primarily part of the collective agreements that parties make with each other, but these statements are in the VWS budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u77	However, there is still no clarity as to the use of these training budgets. You're hearing huge differences. Some nurses and nurses say they only have €100 to spend, but we also hear stories that educational budgets are spent on reorganisations. It concerns the actual use of training budgets and their use. I have not yet been able to hear from anyone that there is an overview of the commitment and level of training budgets for nurses and nurses. Does the Secretary of State recognize this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u78	How training budgets are used in the institutions and the sector is the responsibility of employers and employees. We are trying to show in the VWS budget what we are doing about cofinancing the training budgets of the sectors. I'll see for myself if that's sufficiently clear. In addition, sufficient training is part of the quality framework. Everyone talks about the bonding and cuffing of employees for the long term. This includes continuing education. It is not for nothing part of the quality framework. I expect that both the quality framework and the labour market agenda agreements we are making will give an impetus to the training of existing employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u79	Finalizing, Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u80	Rounding up. It is about the staff in institutions, but certainly also about the staff outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u81	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u82	So it's also about caregivers who provide home care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u83	Sure. Mrs Ellemeet asked if I agree that technology can contribute to improving quality. Yeah, that's right. Cold technology can be very supportive of warm care, so to speak. I share that view. I think it is good to encourage the use of technology, including in long-term care. This will also be discussed in the discussion that the new cabinet will have on the healthcare infrastructure scheme. I can see from Mrs Ellemeet's questions that she is wondering whether the funding rules of the Dutch Health Authority are sufficiently encouraging the deployment of infrastructure. I promise her that I will consult with the NZa to see if there are any bottlenecks in the current funding and whether they can be cleared up. I say at the same time that there are two schools. School one says: if you want to stimulate technology, you have to name it and make a separate rate for it, with all the consequences and administrative burdens. The other school says: you have to make room in the existing funding, so that if you want to do it in another way with more technology, you don't run into unnecessary performance rules. With that remark, I will consult with the NZa to see if there are any outstanding issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u84	That leads to a question from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u85	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I have another question from the previous debate, namely on the health infrastructure scheme. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State himself has now come back to that. I understand that that arrangement will cease to exist from 1 January 2018. There's gonna be a new arrangement. What's this arrangement gonna look like? Is it going to be very different from the current regime, which should actually be seen as a transitional arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u86	In shaping the new scheme, we want to make great use of our experience with the existing healthcare infrastructure scheme. We also want to discuss with municipalities, healthcare providers and professionals what is needed for the coming period. That is a fairly open debate. What you see is that if you go to very much project-wise funding of care infrastructure, those projects often stand or fall with the fact that a grant is being provided. What we need to look out for is that if that grant stops, then one of these projects will fall over. That's actually not good. It should actually be to stimulate something that becomes normal in the operation, in the provision of care. That question will play. I don't have a final picture of what that should look like right now. However, we need to learn from the experience and see how this might be embedded in a new scheme in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u87	I understood that there is less money to be spent on this healthcare infrastructure scheme by 2018. The Secretary of State himself states that there is no continuity in some initiatives. Some initiatives are not so directly related to innovation, but are in the neighbourhood and supportive. So what about those initiatives that may be in trouble in 2018, because the scheme will be filled in differently and the budget will be less?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u88	1. It has been clear in advance that it was a finite budget. I understand that when the end approaches, everyone says: it is a pity that it ends. But there are also legal difficulties in continuing this scheme at all. 2. We have made agreements with the municipalities: you get the remaining budget, you can decide to do new things with it, to honour existing projects or to make other arrangements. That's really up to you. As soon as the transitional arrangements cease, municipalities will receive the remaining budget and we will look at the new healthcare infrastructure scheme with a clean slate. I thought we had already talked about this, but Mrs Bergkamp says the following. I make it a little too simple: be careful with the one-on-one reasoning; people who have left can't just bet anymore. Sometimes you can, sometimes you can't. If you look at the projections, it will be all hands on deck in the coming years and we can use a lot of people, if not everyone. Let's see if we can strengthen the training, whether we can strengthen the side influx, whether we can reduce the workload and whether we can stimulate innovation. I think we need everything to deal with these problems. I think I have also answered the question about direction. We are working at regional level, where consultation between employers and employees takes place, also with the municipalities. We have also set up a rural group to see how the various regions are doing. Then we can also look at whether we should take action if it turns out that insufficient agreements can be made in a region. Employers, employees, municipalities and VWS will periodically monitor this with each other. Mrs Kuik asked whether a two-week course under the supervision of a qualified healthcare worker could lead to employment very quickly. I do not think that a general answer is possible, but it is true that we have to think very pragmatically. I think that for a large number of tasks, for example in a nursing home, when it comes to company and day activities, daily spending and attention for people, we can use a lot of people with some life experience and wisdom, who may have worked in care, very hard. So indeed we must be very pragmatic in this, recognising that some care tasks require specialist care, with the knowledge of dementia, huntington or korsakov. So it's a little less important. But let's have that luxury. We need a lot of people in the coming years and let us also be very pragmatic. If fast training can be done under the direction of a care worker, let us do so in particular. And let's also invest in training when more specialization is needed. Do health care agencies influence the demands made on the care staff? Yes, I think so, because healthcare institutions and health offices simply apply the quality framework and will therefore require health care institutions to indicate how they develop the quality framework, including the quality of staff and the composition of staff. I believe that this stimulating influence could play a major role in ensuring that there is acceleration. Finally. We may be there, at least not all parties...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u89	There is still a short question, on the basis of your answer, from Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u90	A word about the previous point. If healthcare agencies have an influence on this, does that mean that those level 1 and 2 people will not get a chance because healthcare agencies say: we want at least level 3? Is there room for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u91	Yeah, I think so. The core of the quality framework, among other things, is that you need a staff mix. You don't have to reason: everything needs a higher level. Just for all kinds of other welfare issues and simple care things, we can use a lot of people, including level 1 and level 2. When you talk to settings, you can also see that change is taking place. There has been a time when everyone was looking for higher levels "because care becomes more complex." But the quality of life is determined by good knowledge of the technique of care and by life wisdom, daily spending activities and attention to people. For this, literally and figuratively a lot of hands, perhaps not at the bed but elsewhere in the institution, can be very valuable. I think there's still big opportunities out there. Finally, Mr President. I think we can see that we have perhaps not all agreed on causes and measures in the past period. I think it is very good to note that it has been very difficult, but it was also necessary to ensure that care remains sustainable in the future. Perhaps we do not all agree on this, but we have succeeded in creating sustainable and affordable care for those on a small stock exchange in the future, while at the same time making room for the necessary investments in nursing care. Let us ensure that this perspective is a good guide for the new cabinet, which hopefully is certainly something more fortunate than we were at the time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u92	Thank you, Secretary of State. Some members have indicated the need for a second term. I intended to proceed with that immediately. I give the floor to Mrs Agema. All Members have one minute's speaking time. That includes the time available to file any motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that 77.000 people have been dismissed in the care sector during the past cabinet period and the Secretary of State indicates that 125.000 people need to be hired by 2022, employees at Level 2 are still being dismissed today. That is extra strange, because level 2 has been given a place in the quality framework and is therefore legally enforceable. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that level 2 employees are no longer dismissed, as the legally enforceable quality framework requires sufficient level 2 staff,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A minute's like that, so I'm going right over to the motion we'd like to table today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a huge shortage of care workers;]] [[noting that 77.000 care workers have lost their jobs in the last period;]] [[noting that in all nursing homes as soon as possible the occupation standard as set out in this Chamberwide is to be complied with in order to provide proper care;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare an action plan as soon as possible, in which:]] [[redundant care workers are actively tracked down by the UWV;]] [[dismissed care workers are initially sent a bunch of flowers and an apology letter recognising, among other things, the importance of level 1 nutrition assistants and level 2 helpers in a nursing home;]] [[be actively invited to return to a nursing home on decent terms, which means: if required, permanent employment with certainty, participation in the shift schedule, sufficient appreciation and less workload by more colleagues;]] [[current nursing home care workers are actively approached and invited to expand their contract with more contract hours;]] [[and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-286]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u95	Mr. Chairman. We will have to do a lot to get employees back and to get them to work in healthcare again, including investing in training and in technology. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the possibility of continuing education makes working in care attractive to new employees and promotes the maintenance of care staff;]] [[Whereas there are considerable differences in the training budgets for nurses and nurses;]] [[Whereas understanding of the level and use of training budgets for nurses and caregivers is important in order to give expertise promotion a full place in the labour market agenda "At work for the elderly";]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the level and use of training resources in health care institutions and to identify differences between them and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-287]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u96	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that technology makes an important contribution to good care, provided that it is developed from the demand of the patient and the care professional;]] [[Considers that technology can have an important supporting function in the work of healthcare professionals;]] [[Whereas care technology is explicitly included only in the financing component for inpatient care and not for the Full Package Home and Modular Package Home;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether a change of funding of healthcare technology in the Long-Term Care Act can promote the use of healthcare technology,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-288]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I have a small correction to something from the previous debate. I said, "Am I satisfied?" a satisfaction survey was among employees, but it's a client investigation. Here's to it. Furthermore, in this debate I have two further questions open to the Secretary of State. I asked him for a reaction or reflection on the imaging of the two reports of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. I also asked a question about nursing care and hospitals. We see that there are the same scales, but that employees who opt for nursing care are often scaled down at the start. If we want to make it attractive, we need to look at it. It is also necessary to look at the flow of staff in nursing care, because there are simply fewer specializations. My question to the Secretary of State is: how can we concreteise this with each other and pick it up? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u98	Thank you. I see that Mrs Kuik does not speak in second term. Mr El Yassini does not need that either. Then I'll look at the Secretary of State. He's gonna be looking for his papers together for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u99	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Bergkamp did indeed have two more questions open. The first question was about the imaging and the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. When the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau came up with the research which said that people are generally quite satisfied and happy with the way in which care is provided, but want more personal attention, I also noticed that this in itself is almost impossible. I think that's what Mrs Bergkamp said. When I had to comment, I also noticed to myself that I was actually looking for exactly the same balance sheets. I think it is very nice that people say now: I am generally quite satisfied with the care in the nursing home, but much more personal attention is needed. We should also be a little happy when things are going well and when the path of development has been taken for the better. So my position on the basis of these investigations is: let us be glad that the path to development seems to have been taken for the better and let us at the same time realise that we are far from there. I hope that this way of reasoning will help a little bit to ensure that we do not continue to argue too much in extremes, but that we are aware of today's problems and also of the positive developments that are taking place. I was happy about it. It is good to say that again, so I would like to thank Mrs Bergkamp once again for that question. I think she's quite right about that. Then there is the question of working conditions. What about the salaries and the flow? This is, of course, a matter for the social partners. The government makes money available to make good agreements with each other. I note that collective bargaining is becoming increasingly exposed to the preservation, bonding and handcuffs of staff. I am sure that this is one of the subjects that workers' organisations will bring in in their consultation with employers. When you talk about the attractiveness of the profession, it is of course about the imagery, the way in which it flows and the working conditions. I therefore assume that this will indeed be one of the subjects that will be explicitly discussed at the collective agreement table. Then there's the motions. In the motion in part No. 285 the government is asked to ensure that employees are no longer dismissed. Of course, we can't do that as a government. I would point out that we have made an agreement with the social partners to ensure that there is as much security as possible, that dismissal is avoided and that, if this is unavoidable, there is an examination of opportunities elsewhere. But this is of course not the way we can determine it for everyone from this level. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u101	A brief question from Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u102	It's really weird that a outgoing Secretary of State should decommit a motion to a missionary chamber, whereas the entire missionary chamber actually indicates that she thinks that all these layoffs should stop. That is a very strange advice, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u103	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u104	My question is therefore: in recent weeks it has been the Labour Party's responsibility to make us believe that the 2.1 billion for nursing homes does not come from the manifesto-Borst, the PVV motion or the CPB transfer, but from the quality framework. And now, suddenly, the quality framework is no longer important enough to bring it to the attention of the public. I think that's really weird. So I'm really asking the Secretary of State to reconsider his judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u105	You're asking me for advice from the Chamber. I can give it to you as Secretary of State. The Chamber is about its own votes. That's right. But I would point out that we have agreed on how we can provide more job security. If employment falls and it is inevitable that something else will have to be found, we can also look at it more regionally and with others. That's what we've agreed on. But we cannot guarantee that there are no redundancies anywhere in the country for any reason whatsoever. It can't be. By the way, I do not have the impression that the Quality Framework for Nursing Care has not been sufficiently highlighted in the past period. I think there has really been a lot of attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u106	Thank you. I see that there is still a need for a short round.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u107	In this legally enforceable framework, the employees at level 2 have simply been given a place, but they are still being dismissed. But what does the Secretary of State say to the employees at Level 2 who are fired? Never mind? You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u108	No, I note that the quality framework says correctly: let us ensure a good staff mix and not just look at the highly educated. There's got to be a good staff mix. Mr El Yassini also stressed this. A good staff mix is the basis for good care in which you have all the skills and perspectives. This does not mean that you can determine the composition of the staff mix with an individual healthcare provider. It's really supposed to be invented at a local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u109	Thank you. Your appreciation of motion no. 286.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u110	The motion No. 286 is asking for something we are already doing on the one hand. We have already agreed on the labour market agenda with employers and employees. On the other hand, the motion contains a large number of points which should, as it were, be included in the action plan. I don't think that's a good idea. There's an action plan. That's what we agreed with employers and employees. They're gonna have to fill that in for themselves. I want to give them that space, too. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In part, it is superfluous, partly too detailed, and the partners are at their feet. In motion No. 287 are asked to carry out research into the level and use of training resources. The VWS resources for training are on the budget. That's not the point. I think it is impossible to investigate at every care facility what training resources are being used. It is up to the social partners, within the framework of the collective agreement, to agree whether there are sufficient training opportunities, whether they are being used adequately and whether they should be raised. I expect it to be a much more important subject, including on the collective bargaining tables. So I do not think it is right for us to investigate the level and use of training resources in health care institutions. This is particularly for the social partners, and I think this will be much higher on the agenda. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u111	A question from Mrs Ellemeet on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u112	Nothing's happening now. It is not known in the field how training resources are used. The signals we get about this are very different, and I think we agree that it is important that every healthcare professional should really be entitled to a good education budget and that it is sufficient. Does the Secretary of State see any other possibility or role for himself in which he can stimulate that clarity and that overview?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u113	Yeah, two ways. Firstly, I have pointed out that this need for adequate training of staff in the Quality Framework itself has been permanently stated. Secondly, the agreements we made in the context of the labour market agenda highlighted the importance of adequate training opportunities. Then it is up to employers and employees at industry or institution level to check whether it is sufficient for these institutions or whether it should be up or down. So I think that we have created the framework conditions for parties to ensure that this is and remains high on the agenda, thereby making their own arrangements. I'm assuming that's enough incentive. Then motion No. 288 the request to examine whether a change of funding can promote technology. I think that the motion calls for barriers to the application of technology to be removed, and I believe that there should indeed be room for technology both in institutional care and in home care. On the one hand, you can see that some care institutions think that there is enough room and that they are just doing something, while others say that the rules should be replaced first. We agree that the use of technology becomes and is very important. I am very willing to clarify or remove rules that hinder this. If I may read the motion in such a way that I instruct the NZa to investigate what is going on here and to indicate if there are any problems, I will leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u114	There's a nod in agreement. So you may, then we come to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-9.u115	Vote on the motions tabled is next Tuesday. This concludes the meeting of Wednesday 27 September 2017. Get home.
