ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported by Mrs Erpenbeek de Wolff, Mr Maes, Mrs Senne and Mr Dees in the defence of their initiative proposal in Box K; they are also welcome. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. It will act as an advisor to the Chamber in the examination of this initiative proposal. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of this legal process is on Thursday. At least that's the planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the initiative law that should lead to the permanent ban on the distribution of profits by health insurance companies. The CDA is pleased that we can discuss this with the initiators today. We would like to thank the initiators for the speed with which they have responded, so that we can now have the plenary part-session. It is important to preserve the good but to look critically at what can be done better. The current healthcare system offers opportunities for improvement. The CDA believes that market forces within the healthcare system, especially in recent years, have gone too far and sometimes seem to have become more of an end in themselves, while the aim of the system should be to ensure the quality, accessibility and solidarity of care. From a Christian-democratic vision of care, health insurers are increasingly expected to behave like social enterprises. This is also the reason why, in the current system of health insurance, regulated market functioning is one of the guiding principles, with the emphasis on "regulated'. In the opinion of the initiators, therefore, an extension of this general public-law pre-condition, as envisaged by this legislative proposal, is not strange, as I read in the note on the basis of the report. Can the initiators explain in detail why this is not foreign to the system? Have there been more public-law conditions in the system in recent decades? In an article in the Volkskrant dated 5 January, two professors claimed that this bill would cost the premium contributor €100 to €150. The members of the CDA Group have precisely understood this initiative proposal in such a way that profits can be spent, for example, on reducing premiums, on increasing solvency by allowing the money to go to the reserve or on purchasing more care. In short, we have understood that the health insurance company will have a choice menu. By the way, do the initiators want the health insurance companies to make this transparent in their reporting, or is this part of internal management? In his background study on ten years of Health Insurance Act, a report entitled "Health of Value," the CDA's scientific institute has expressed its views on a possible profit distribution by health insurance companies. In the recommendation, the Scientific Institute states that health insurers are social enterprises. This means that no profit-sharing should be allowed and that there should be a strong democratisation by giving insurance councils more control and patient organisations more influence on procurement policy. This should aim at increasing health gains, taking into account specific population characteristics. What do the initiators think of this? Do they consider that only making a temporary ban on distribution of profits is sufficient for health insurers to be able to be a social enterprise? Or should there be more? I'd like a reaction to that. Finally, but no less important. Not only profit distribution by health insurance companies, the CDA is a thorn in the eye. As far as we are concerned, care institutions which pocket large amounts of money while older people and disabled people with less or no care should also be stopped. Not so long ago, for example, we were confronted with the health care company Alliade, where the directors were very good farmers over the backs of people who depend on care. When you look into this matter, it turns out that it is even explicitly allowed for healthcare providers who provide care on the basis of the Long-Term Care Act and the Health Insurance Act to pay out profits. Why is that? Why one does and the other doesn't? Shouldn't this just end, too? I would like to receive a response from the proposers. I have looked into this issue over the past few days. I can make a proposal here today to make this impossible by means of an amendment to this legislative proposal, but perhaps the authors think that this is going too far at the moment. For the CDA, it is certain that it is indigestible for older people, for example, to have fewer hours or no more domestic help at all, while the drivers of these companies then put the money in their pockets. Care money has to go to care!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u3	I hear Mrs Keijzer thanking the initiators in detail for the speed with which they got this law on the role here. Prior to that, the Council of State, a very serious court, issued an opinion on this law. The Council of State recommends reconsidering the bill, inter alia because it would be contrary to property law according to the same Council of State. Why does Mrs Keijzer not consider this bill to be contrary to property law? Does it have better legal sources than the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u4	This bill does not interfere with property law, it intervenes in the ability to pay profits. Health insurers are still allowed to do with their money what they are on earth as far as I am concerned, namely to provide good care, to provide adequate quality care, and to buy care in such a way that care does not become more expensive and that if money is left over, this can, for example, be put into lower care premiums. So I'm judging this in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u5	I repeat, the Council of State is making a very fundamental statement. He doesn't say that it's rubbing around with some legislation. No, the Council of State says it's in violation of property law. The information we have from other sources also shows that health insurers, at least investors in those insurers, are expropriated. Expropriation is a point that is very sensitive to the CDA. When it comes to farmers, the CDA is in the highest tree; it must not be expropriated, it must always be compensated, it must be done immediately. The Council of State says that this is a violation of property rights, one of the most fundamental rights in our country. This is not examined by the initiators and is apparently not further examined by Mrs Keijzer either. How can she say that this bill is not contrary to that same property right? What sources does she use for this? Can I check it out? Or is that just Mrs Keijzer's feeling? It seems very dangerous to me if, on the basis of the CDA's feeling, we undermine the right of ownership in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u6	With my feeling nothing is wrong at all, but that aside, although that can of course be judged differently by the VVD-group. I think the proposers have handled it in the right way. I would also like to explain this from my perspective to Mr Rutte. It is not a question of expropriation. How do health insurance companies get their assets? They come from the fact that they receive a premium, because they receive money through employers' contributions through the Health Insurance Fund and because there is a risk of their own. That's how it's built up. That's publicly acquired assets. What's that for? This is to buy high quality care for as low a price as possible so that ultimately the insured do not pay more premium than is necessary for the care. In itself, I am not surprised by this from the VVD group, which also states that there will be no further investment, for example from abroad. Every comparison is limp, but every now and then I have to think about V&D. V&D has also received debt from abroad, and look where we are now. Is it really in the interest of all those people who work in healthcare every day and who work for us all, especially for the sick and vulnerable, that we have a system that invites us to do so? The CDA Group considers that fundamentally different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u7	Mr. Rutte, finally. Short, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u8	Finally, Mr President. I see that Mrs Keijzer has read very well the answers of the initiators but has not looked very closely at what is actually going on. Indeed, the answers given by the initiators correspond exactly to what Mrs Keijzer said: it would be about public money, about premium money, and about the dowry that was received during the time of the sickness fund. But what does it turn out to be? No less than 600 million euros of non-contributory money from the Achmea group is in Achmea care. That's just money from non-life insurance and home insurance. That money just lost Achmea's damage. How can you describe this differently than what the Council of State is already warning, namely expropriation? Also insurer a.s.r. points out that its capital was not created solely by premium money and public money, but also by private money. So does Mrs Keijzer say that private money can be taken as soon as it is in a health insurance company? I would like to have a very clear answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u9	I read other amounts. I read in the Financieele Dagblad that in 2015 Achmea's healthcare company was by far the most profitable part of Achmea. Of the profit for taxation of 386 million, 287 million came from health insurance. In my view, therefore, what Mr Rutte is putting forward here is not correct, but perhaps the authors can go into more detail. For the CDA Group, all that matters is that care money should be spent on care and not disappear into shareholders' pockets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u10	Mr. Chairman. It is already ten years since the then Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport introduced the Health Insurance Act and thus also the market forces in healthcare. However, the introduction of that law established a ban on the distribution of profits by health insurers. Initially, this was for ten years, but later it was extended by two years, ending in 2018. GroenLinks agrees with the bill of SP, CDA and PvdA, which ensures that benefits by health insurance companies are prohibited for an unlimited period of time. Healthcare insurers have a very important social role to play, namely the contracting of good care. I do not think I need to dwell here on the importance of this. After all, everyone wants the very best care for others and for themselves. For this we have in the Netherlands very good doctors and nurses, but for that we are also dependent on the policies of health insurance companies. They negotiate which care is eventually contracted and thus determine which care the patient receives. GroenLinks believes that the quality of care should be at the heart of the procurement process. So it's about good care and not profit making. That should be self-evident. A health insurance is something other than a phone subscription. You can replace a phone, not your body. GroenLinks is convinced that the possibility of profit distribution brings wrong incentives to healthcare. There has been a lot of unrest over the role of health insurers in our care in recent years. People are concerned about the effects of market forces in our healthcare system. In the Code of Conduct on Good Health Insurance, health insurers have defined how they want to fulfil that social role. This code of conduct is based on three pillars: security, involvement and solidarity. The Council of State wrote: "The health insurance company is guided in its business policy by the interests of the insured person, by the social views on responsible health care, by legal provisions, by the importance of a well-functioning insurance system, and by the pursuit of the continuity of its business." Although it is of course a good thing that health insurance companies themselves pick up the glove to reflect on their social role through a code of conduct, GroenLinks believes that this has not yet proved to be sufficient in practice. We therefore believe that the argument that a non-binding code of conduct solves all problems is an illusion. Unfortunately, the practice is different. This is demonstrated, for example, by the reactions I have received from some health insurers. It gives me an uncomfortable feeling that they are turning so strongly against the bill, against what is already an existing situation. I wonder what the health insurers are afraid of. They're actually sending out the wrong signal. It also does not contribute to the image of the health insurer who attaches importance to positive social appreciation. It doesn't add to the impression you have to give me as a health insurance provider, namely that you want to deliver the very best care to you insured and that it's not about making as much profit as possible or actually making any profit at all. Indeed, some health insurers argue that a ban on profit distribution removes possible incentives for efficiency from health insurers. But efficiency must not be driven by profit, but by quality. Making a profit should not be a guiding principle in the choices made by health insurance companies. This does not give insurers the impression that they are guided by the interests of their insured persons or the pursuit of responsible health care, as agreed in the code of conduct. On the contrary, the reasoning that profit leads to better care is, in my opinion, a misconception of reality. People who work in healthcare do not need a financial incentive to provide good care. They do this from their ideals and beliefs. I will therefore be pleased when all health insurance companies are on that line and act accordingly. In the playing field of health insurers, healthcare providers and insured persons, the power relationships are disproportionately in favour of the health insurer. Ideally, GroenLinks would see more room for healthcare providers and insured people to strengthen their negotiating position. It is not yet in balance and this only brings with it additional responsibilities for health insurers. As has already been said, they have the task of buying the very best care, but also of making their insured people's confidence as high as possible. There are too many bottlenecks there now. Instead of shooting into the defensive or pretending that people don't understand the health care system, it would be nice if health insurance companies really showed that it was up to them to do that good care and trust that. That is why GroenLinks recently presented a vision of the care in which market forces are not further stimulated, but rather countered. Of course, there is no profit distribution by health insurers. In 2015, the general practitioners with the manifesto The helm has to achieve a better negotiating position by claiming their place in front of the health insurance companies: less bureaucracy and more cooperation. As far as our group is concerned, this should apply everywhere in health care, for example to the physiotherapists, the district nurses, the caregivers and mental health care. As has been said, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports the bill to ban the distribution of profits by health insurers. We would like to take the initiative to extend this to include a ban on the distribution of benefits by health care institutions. In this way, perverse incentives are eliminated there too. We would like to take a number of further steps in this legislative proposal. That is why we have tabled three amendments. Two of these amendments ensure that individual drivers of health insurance companies can be fined in the event of inappropriate behaviour and that this fine is for the benefit of insured persons. The third amendment aims to exempt health insurers from their right to provide health insurance. We hope that the initiators of the legislative proposal will be in favour of this and will be happy to wait for their response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u11	That was a nice ideological story of GroenLinks. I don't share it entirely, but you can have it that way. I did hear Mrs Voortman announce something new. In fact, she said that no healthcare provider should make a profit. Does Mrs Voortman realise that this could have a huge impact on the new construction of all kinds of healthcare institutions in the Netherlands, including in the first line, the one and a half line, the care of the elderly, the residential care complexes and other complexes, in which investors such as pension funds are now investing heavily to achieve this? Is she well aware that this actually means that that is no longer allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u12	Right now, you shouldn't want benefits from healthcare providers. If a party only wants to invest in a new building if profits can be made, what are we doing? I want people to invest in making the care better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u13	That's ideologically very nice and in fairytale land that kind of thing happens, but in the real world, not just a building is put up by someone who never needs his money back. In this way, investment in residential care complexes will not come off the ground, which are very important for care of the elderly in the future. These investments are hardly being made in the first place. How are you gonna do that? You may want that ideologically, but what if that leads to baldness? If this leads to a total halt in healthcare investment in the Netherlands, is it still what GroenLinks wants? Is ideology really above content here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u14	This is indeed a debate of principle. The VVD wants the money to be given to shareholders. We believe that the money should be spent on care or on insured persons. That's what this is about. I don't think it's unrealistic to want that. This law prohibits the distribution of profits. That ban is now also applicable. If we could do this for the last ten years, we should be able to do it longer, right? The question is whether you want to make it possible for shareholders to benefit from insurance funds. That is the fundamental question. We say: no, it's people's money; it's social money and you shouldn't want to spend it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u15	I'll do my best, but we'll talk past each other. It seems as if Mrs Voortman doesn't want to understand that when you don't have an investor, you can think that something needs to be built, but that this will not work. Then the ideology. Ideologically, GroenLinks thinks this is a very good proposal. The Council of State and other parties that have reported to the Chamber say that this bill may lead to premiums rising because insurers are no longer able to obtain capital in a decent way. Then there is nothing left but to increase the premiums. The Council of State says this and I usually take it fairly seriously. A number of insurers are saying the alarm clock and I think the ACM is also saying something about that today. Does GroenLinks still have ideology over content? Even if this bill increases the premium, does GroenLinks wholeheartedly support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u16	If there is a group that often puts aside opinions from the Council of State, it is unfortunately the VVD Group. That the VVD takes the Council of State so seriously, I haven't noticed much about that in the last few years. Mr Rutte says 'if this leads to an increase in premiums'. There is no reason to believe that this will lead to an increase in premiums, as this would already be the case. We now have the situation that health insurers cannot make profit payments. We are simply going on in the same way, and why would that lead to huge changes in the premiums? I really do not understand what that is based on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u17	I have a practical question on the amendment to item No. 10, which provides that the health insurer and the driver may be fined. We have the Drivers Liability Act. What does this amendment add? Does the Driver Liability Act not fully cover the load so that Mrs Voortman has to come up with an additional amendment? What has been the consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u18	I thank Mrs Wolbert for this question. You don't want insurers to be able to calculate that fine, so the profit distribution is so high that they don't notice any of the fine. We want the driver to know personally that this is not possible. We think it is immoral to use money from insured persons for the profits of shareholders. We therefore believe that we must ensure that directors are jointly and severally liable for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u19	In substance, the Labour Party fully agrees with this line, but in order to determine whether we can support the amendment or not, I think it is important to know whether we are not stacking unnecessary legislation because the Drivers' Liability Act is sufficient. Perhaps Mrs Voortman and I could discuss this in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u20	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators for their efforts and congratulate them on this bill. As far as PVV is concerned, we do not need to waste too many words. After all, the legislative proposal regulates on a permanent basis what was previously supported by this Chamber, namely the amendment that has been adopted that prohibits the distribution of benefits by health insurance companies for an indefinite period. It is actually up to the Minister to refrain from legalising this ban. If we look back, we can see that the health insurance companies have been operating fine for ten years without profit distribution to shareholders. Despite being non-profit-making, profits are being made, and much is being done. Over the past four years, the combined profit has been around 4 billion. That's a large part of citizens' contribution money. The PVV is not in principle opposed to making profits, but it does take the view that profits in health care should benefit the premium payer in the form of a lower premium. If it were to disappear into shareholders' pockets, public money would be taken from care. We don't want that. This bill prohibits health insurers from making profits to shareholders, but leaves the initiators in the middle where the health insurance companies are allowed to channel profits. Adding the profits to the reserves can't be the intention, can it? After all, we know that healthcare insurers' reserves are already much higher than required by law. Shouldn't we set limits to that? In the media, criticism sounds that this bill may lead to a premium increase. Can the initiators comment on this? This would be the opposite of what we want to achieve. I also refer to today's ruling of the lawyer Klaas Miersma in Zorgvisie. He states that this bill forbids the use of profits for reduction of premiums. I would like to receive a response from the initiators and from the Minister. I'm rounding up. It is undesirable that profits from health insurance companies go to shareholders. Shareholders want a return. Care will be affected by this and the patient will pay. This bill is blocking that road and my group will therefore support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u21	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the authors and their supporters for this initiative law. I can imagine that they have spent a great deal of time on this and I am glad that we can talk about it this week. Now eleven years ago, we started with the current healthcare system, a private health insurance system with public-law conditions. Because the reserves of the then sickness funds, around 1.7 billion, went to the health insurers in the new system, it was logical to say that these reserves should not be distributed as profits. We got a non-profit health insurance law. At the time, in 2006, it was said that within ten years, a health insurance law was adopted for profit. Then those old legal reserves would be settled. This first deadline was due to expire in 2016 and was then extended by the SP by two years. Now the big question is: do we want a Health Insurance Act with or without a profit for health insurance companies? For D66 it is clear that we need to avoid incentives in the system that have negative effects on care. The risk of profit distribution is that insurers will focus on shareholders instead of the quality, availability and affordability of care. The prohibition of distribution of profits to health insurers is also a continuation of current practice. Even now, health insurance companies are not allowed to make profits. The D66 Group is therefore in favour of the purpose of the legislative proposal. I do have a few questions for the proposers and the advisor to the proposers, the VWS Minister. These concern three issues: the profits of health insurers and the reserves, the added value of the legislative proposal compared to current practice and the involvement of supervisors. I'll start with the profits of the health insurance companies. In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the proposers write that health insurers may indeed make a profit and this profit may be used to reduce premiums, invest in improving care or to strengthen the reserve position of health insurers. This is also in the interest of the insured person. I think that's right. This money is all for the benefit of the care. This bill makes it impossible to pay profits to shareholders. This is understandable from the past, when the health insurance companies started with public reserves, and also from the fact that reserves are made up of premium money intended for health care. However, that is not the full story. In the intervening years there have also been insurers who have used money from other parts of their company to absorb losses or to meet the reserve requirements of the Nederlandsche Bank. The reserves are therefore not only built up with money intended for care, but also with insurance companies' own money. My first question to the applicants is whether they have taken this into account. I ask this because the Council of State makes critical comments on the legal sustainability of the bill. They're about the article on the protection of property. Mr Rutte also spoke just now about this. Isn't there a risk that a judge, if the bill is passed, will say that this money should be returned to the provider of the money? The Council of State explicitly states that it is not convinced that the bill can pass the test of Article 1 of the first Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights. So this is about ownership. This is what my group considers to be an important risk to the legislative proposal. What does this mean for possible legal proceedings? Is it possible that this law will require insurers to claim compensation from the Dutch State, especially for sums not derived from care money or premium money? Shouldn't contributions be raised precisely to supplement reserves, with negative consequences for health care in the Netherlands? I would like to hear a response from the authors to this question, but also explicitly the vision of the VWS Minister. As a result, I have the following question. As a financial spokesman, I am, of course, always working on capital and capital. I asked in the note on the report whether this bill does not affect the acquisition of equity by health insurers. The applicants replied that they are based on current practice, where health insurers without profit distribution are able to perform their task properly. That's right, and I think that's a strong argument. However, this has partly been done by adding reserves to the health insurance company from other parts, through deposits from reserves of other activities, of equity that does not come from care. This is actually in line with my first point. If the bill is passed, chances are that it won't happen again, that there will be no donations from other parts to the health insurance leg. This may mean that health insurers are forced to work more with debt, with higher costs, because debt costs more money than equity. Do the proposers have any idea of the possible consequences of this? I'd like to get a reaction to this. My second point concerns added value over current practice. We realise that this bill has a great symbolic value. There is currently only one health insurance company that owns a profit-making company. That's A.S.R. Moreover, the insurer of A.S.R. non-profit-making itself. All other health insurance companies are non-profit cooperatives. The health insurance companies themselves indicate that they do not want to change this. In the written round, the D66 Group asked whether the proposers also looked at other ways of achieving the objective of the bill. This objective is to prevent profits from being distributed to shareholders. These are the possible wrong incentives in the system. My group is very much in favour of this. That question has not yet been answered in the note on the basis of the report, in my view. That is why I would like to ask him once again today to reply to the authors on Thursday. I'd like to get a reaction to this. My third point concerns the involvement of supervisors. In the Netherlands, we have several supervisors involved in the healthcare system: the NZa, the ACM, the Nederlandsche Bank. They all have important knowledge of the field or of insurance. For example, this morning the ACM published a report on health insurance, which also addresses this bill. The ACM states that this can increase costs. I would like to hear a response from the authors to that report. I have the same question about the Dutch Bank. The proposers argue that this bill will have no impact on solvency. That seems to me to be a difficult point, let me put it this way, even in view of my questions on point one about own funds or assets that have been put into the health insurance company from other parts of insurers. Therefore, my question is whether the applicants are still willing to check with DNB whether this does not indeed affect the solvency of the system. That was my three points. I'm rounding up. D66 supports the purpose of the legislative proposal, namely to avoid wrong incentives due to profit distributions to shareholders by health insurance companies, but has some fundamental questions about this bill. I look forward to the reply of the proposers. I wish them good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u22	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the three authors of this proposal for all the work they have done. I think it is right to name and thank their support in this regard too. It is incredibly much work to write an initiative bill, but today it is there and we are discussing it with each other. The proposers are the spokesmen of three parties who think very differently about the future of our health insurance system. It's nice that they found each other at this point. Where the Labour Party still voted in favour of the bill to allow benefits in medical-specialist care, it is one of the proposers today. It's possible. The care is not of health insurers or healthcare institutions but of society, of the people who need care and of the people who provide care to a fellow person as a caregiver or care professional. Solidarity within our system is of great importance to the Christian Union. Due to the compulsory basic insurance, healthy people contribute to the care costs for sick people. At the same time, rising healthcare costs put pressure on solidarity, including for future generations. For the Christian Union, it is clear that our healthcare system needs to be improved. This should not be done by abolishing all health insurance companies and throwing away the child with the bath water, but by returning the care to people. We want to give more influence to insured people on the policies of health insurers, who will have to organize themselves closer to the insured. Many insurers pride themselves on being cooperatives, but then they really have to work as such. We will certainly come back to this in the legislative proposal on strengthening the influence of insured persons. In short, the Christian Union wants less market and more control. Words such as "competition," "consumer," "damage burden," "marketing," "entrepreneurship" or "profit" are actually purely financial-economic concepts. They do not fit in with the public interest of our health care. This includes for the Christian Union that health insurers or healthcare providers do not pay any profit. Care money coming in from public funds or contributions should be spent on care. Profit benefit provides an incentive for too low purchasing prices and a lower volume of care, while the focus should be on improving the quality of care. The maintenance of the current ban on the distribution of profits by health insurers that propose the proposers therefore sees the Christian Union as a logical step. My group welcomes this initiative proposal, but still has a number of questions for the proposers. It would also have been an option to simply lay down in the law that a health insurance company should not be organised as a public limited company. By excluding certain legal forms, you prevent profits from being distributed. You also prevent shareholders from exercising relatively much power, regardless of the possibility of profit distribution. Why didn't the proposers choose this route? I also have a question about the use of profits. In this proposal, health insurers have the opportunity to use the profit I would prefer to talk about "results" myself, to improve care, to reduce premiums or to increase reserves. Suppose an insurer is a cooperative, where the insured can be seen as members but also as shareholders. What is the difference, according to the applicants, between the distribution of profits to members/shareholders and a reduction in premiums? Doesn't that mean the same thing? For example, is it possible, according to the applicants, to give the members of a cooperative a discount on the basic care premium of that year at the end of the year? The proposers make an important distinction between basic health insurance and supplementary health insurance. The prohibition of profit distribution does not apply to supplementary health insurance. Healthcare insurers may, however, pay out the positive result of this. Will the pursuit of profit maximization in supplementary insurance not result in health insurers more often refusing patients with high risk for supplementary insurance? And can the proposers confirm that the transfer of the positive result from the supplementary insurance to the basic insurance with this bill remains possible? My final question is what happens if a health insurance company still makes a profit distribution. In that case, the profit distribution is recovered and an administrative penalty imposed. This amount shall be paid into the general health insurance fund. This means that the insured persons will be harmed by this insurer, because they will ultimately take the blame for this. Is it not better to force the insurer to allow the amount to benefit its own insured persons? The Christian Union attaches importance to our health insurance system, but improvements are certainly possible within the system. This initiative proposal is one of them. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u23	In its opinion, the Council of State states that this bill may be contrary to a fundamental right, namely the right of ownership. That is one of the most important fundamental rights we know. Wasn't that a reason for Mrs. Dik-Faber to have some doubts about the bill? Apparently not. Then the question is: on the basis of what legal sources, what external advice does Mrs Dik-Faber consider that this bill is not contrary to property law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u24	This bill does not remove the opportunities for health insurers to make a profit, although I prefer to speak of results. Those possibilities remain. However, this bill limits what health insurers can do with it: not pay the profits, but provide better care, reduce premiums or maintain large reserves. These are the three options that this bill leaves open, in fact in line with the current situation. My group believes that it is not a disproportionate infringement of property rights if it is implemented in this way. We have also weighed the public interest of better health care, which is served by this bill, against the interest of health insurance companies in attracting and profiting from foreign capital. We have made an assessment of this. We think it is very important that with the money that health insurers attract that is mainly premium money care is improved and profit distribution simply does not relate to good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u25	Now we have received a letter from Achmea and A.S.R. Both insurers explicitly indicate that their assets are partly made up of capital from other companies and investors: 600 million euros at Achmea. The amounts at A.S.R. We do not know, because the initiators are not prepared to find out. Apparently, Mrs Dik-Faber believes that all this is not contrary to property rights if that money remains in the health insurance company. But does it not think that the parties who have provided that money are entitled to compensation, as is normal in the case of the right of expropriation? That is simply in the foundations of our laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u26	I would also like to have an answer to this question from the initiators of this bill. I have interpreted the bill in such a way that parties are certainly free to invest money in health insurance companies. The question is whether you want to make a profit on that. I know that Mr Rutte is about to say, because that is what he said to Mrs Voortman: we do not live in an ideal world. In the ideal world, it might work that way for parties to invest money without having to get a profit in return. But I was elected in politics to pursue my ideals. My ideal is for health insurers to focus on better care and the interests of their insured persons, not on shareholders' interests. That is why my group welcomes this bill with warm feelings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u28	Mr President, this is a far-reaching law. It's really about ownership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u29	Yes, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u30	I don't quite understand Mrs. Fat-Faber. She says she doesn't just want profits to be distributed. I understand that, but this is about money that has been put into health insurance companies by others in the past. That's part of the money to keep that health insurance company from falling over. That money should normally at least be able to be repaid again. Now the investors seem to have just lost the money. We are talking about hundreds of million euros. Well, at least you're supposed to pay compensation, right? Or is that true throughout society, but not when it comes to health insurers? Do they have a status separate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u31	I would like to pass on this question to the initiators of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u32	Mr. Chairman. "The right of initiative" is an expensive definition of the right of members of the House of Representatives to make their own laws. That is the oldest parliamentary law in our country. In 1814 it was the right of the States-General to make requests to the prince. A year later, in 1815, the right of initiative was granted to the Chamber. Only many years later, in 1849, did Parliament also have the right to amend the government's legislative proposals. The right of initiative has been strengthened over the years. For example, since 1989 own-initiative proposals, as in the case of legislative proposals made by the government, should seek advice from the Council of State. That is quite right, because making laws requires a great deal of responsibility and care. New laws should not conflict with existing legislation. This would undermine the rule of law and legal certainty. In addition, a new law must take account of the effects of that law. In addition to the intended effect, there can be unintentional additional, sometimes very negative effects of a legislative proposal. So like the government, the authors of an initiative law are not obliged to follow the Council of State's opinions. It is common practice, however, that these opinions weigh very heavily. The weight of this weighting increases as the opinion of the Council of State is more negative. For example, Mrs Dijkstra van D66 has substantially amended her bill for an active donor registration system in the Lower House last year, after the Council of State had pointed out some legal and substantive undesirables in her original bill. In particular, Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA still did not consider those amendments and the additional amendments made by Mrs Dijkstra sufficient to support the initiative legislative proposal. Mrs Bruins Slot specifically referred to the opinion of the Council of State and the concerns it expressed about the violation of one of our fundamental rights. Mrs Bruins Slot is today one of the proposers of this bill, which aims to ban health insurers from paying returns forever. It is therefore very relevant to look at the Council of State's assessment of the present legislative proposal. Firstly, the Council of State concludes that the bill is at odds with the healthcare system. The Council of State questions the justification put forward in the explanatory memorandum for the proposal in the light of ownership rights and the free movement of capital. In other words, according to the Council of State, the bill is at odds both with the health system and with essential foundations of our rule of law, such as property law. This leads the Council of State to the particularly harsh opinion that the initiators are advised to reconsider the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u33	Indeed, I think it is important that you take a serious look at the criticism of the Council of State. I also assume that the authors will respond in detail to the criticism of the Council of State and will indicate the arguments they do and which they do not agree with. But do I understand now that the VVD says that if the Council of State is negative about a bill, by definition, you should not continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u34	If the Council of State says you need to consider the bill, you're gonna have to prove very well what you've done. That is what you will have to do with external advice, with advice from people who know how to work externally, especially when it comes to fundamental rights, something as fundamental as property law. Then you can't send a law to the Chamber as a quickie, as soon as possible, and try to coat it through. No, then you really have a problem and you don't take what the Council of State says seriously anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u35	I find this very interesting. I have not all the legislative proposals ready, but over the past period there have been several legislative proposals on which the Council of State has been very critical. Those were cabinet proposals, proposals that the VVD was very much in favour of. I understand that from now on the VVD is going to follow a different line and that if the Council of State says 'this is not a good proposal', it will say: we are going to reconsider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u36	In any case, the VVD always looks very seriously at the opinions of the Council of State. If they are fundamentally affected by the rule of law, we will test very carefully what is going on. It's quite a big difference whether you design a law yourself, which lets you test and then do anything at all with the criticism you get. That has not happened or hardly has happened here; I will go into it later. It's really about very fundamental things. Property law is the foundation of our economy, of trust in our country. It's kind of about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u37	One would almost want the group of the VVD to be so fundamental when it comes to caring for vulnerable people. Then it's different. How does the fraction of the VVD respond to the extensive efforts of the initiators which, in simple terms, amount to: there is no expropriation, but regulation of ownership. That's what's going on here, isn't it? I mean, no one gets a hold of the health insurance company's cashiers here, right? No one is saying: that money - how much billion is on the shelves again? We need to get to the state budget now. Says who?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u38	There is a very big difference between taking money, so doing a hold in the cash register, and a fundamental limitation in ownership. The initiators actually say: the money is not gone, you can look at it. That's very strange, isn't it? External parties have invested in health insurance companies and so they can never get their money back. This affects confidence in the Netherlands as a country with a healthy investment climate. You have to be able to trust that if you invest in something, you can get your investment back at some point, according to the rules of the game. Otherwise, property rights will be fundamentally affected, and trust in the rule of law. So yes, I found those answers completely inadequate. I'll tell you why later. The initiators were not prepared to have that tested externally; they were in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u39	Then I am in no hurry to wait and see how Mr Rutte arrives at the conclusion that this is expropriation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u40	An important aspect that the VVD calls for is the investment climate. This would be detrimental if health insurers were regulated in relation to the prohibition of profit distribution. Those health insurance companies have made 4 billion profits in the current system over the past four years. They own $11 billion worth of reserves. Why do they need foreign capital?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u41	The health insurance companies are currently highly capitalised. I'm glad. That's very good. However, that does not mean anything about the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u42	This result says everything about the present and past years. 1 billion or more profit per year. 11 billion in reserves. Billions of reserves over Solvency II. What are we talking about? We're talking about a non-existent danger. Does the VVD acknowledge that on the basis of current facts?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u43	I do not recognise that at all, if only because, for example, Achmea had to increase its capital by EUR 600 million in the early years of the system. At that time, the solvency of that insurer was under pressure and it was necessary to raise capital. Fortunately, this was possible within the group, otherwise the premiums would have been increased at the time. I am very happy that insurers are currently well capitalised and I may share Mr Van Gerven's view that they have more in cash than is strictly necessary. In the coming years, a little premium can still be given back, but that doesn't mean anything about the future. Risks in care are increasing and costs are increasing. This can quickly make the solvency of an insurer problematic and then ultimately the premium increases, if no worse things happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u44	I do not know anyone who doubts the solvency of the health insurers in the current system with all the public guarantees. The health insurance companies can hardly go bankrupt. That is the opinion of many economists who are looking at it. But take Achmea. You come up with the story that 600 million had to be added in the past because losses were made in the early years. You're familiar with the profits of recent years, aren't you? You know the fact that Achmea... that the care is the great moneymaker? 287 million out of 386 million: almost three-quarters of the profits come from the caretaker. If we allow the distribution of profits, wouldn't there be a real risk that there will be a reverse movement and that money will then be paid out to non-healthy shareholders? Wouldn't that be a life-threatening danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u45	I would remind Mr Van Gerven once again that the fact that insurers are now very well capitalised does not say anything about the future. In the past there have been problems, especially with Achmea. It's a good thing they've been solved by raising capital. Furthermore, it is simple: health insurers do their work in a very regulated playing field. That is right, because they have to comply with the duty of care. They cannot simply buy insufficient care of insufficient quality. Then there will be intervention. They also have to meet the requirement of solvency, because otherwise the other supervisor, namely the Dutch Bank, will act. That's perfectly right. And if they were just to spend money on shareholders and they didn't cut the premiums sufficiently, their customers simply walked away. So it's not so easy to pay out money, but it is essential that you can at least repay the parties that have invested in you. If you do not, there is expropriation in normal trade. It seems to me that you have to take that into account when you make a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u47	The Council of State's opinion is not only very negative and harsh, but it should have set off all alarm bells with the initiators. A bill that violates property law is not nothing. There is therefore every reason to at least have this thoroughly examined and to seek additional external advice. In fact, if the bill is really contrary to property law, it is not only contrary to the most fundamental fundamental fundamental rights that our country has, but can also lead to major claims for damages. However, the initiators, including Mrs Bruins Slot, who systematically invoke due diligence and fundamental rights in other legal proceedings, do nothing of the kind. They do not conduct an external legal investigation but they send the bill with some of their own findings to the House of Representatives as soon as possible. However, there is more than enough reason to share the concerns of the Council of State. I have therefore put many questions specifically on this point in the written round of proceedings, which precedes any legal procedure. Because there is every reason for this, I have asked for an additional external legal test. It is a question of ownership: one of the foundations of our rule of law. People must be able to rely blindly on the government not to suddenly take over their property or restrict the use of those property. Imagine what would happen if there were any doubt about selling your house to whomever you want, because the government suddenly decides that living is such a great public interest that there are further rules for that. What would happen if we limited farmers to the possibility of paying back investors in their business, because food is a public interest and, in addition, there is, in part, public money in the form of subsidies in the farm? What would happen if farmers were to be expropriated from their land without compensation or, worse still, without compensation, that a road be built over their land where the land remains the property of the farmer, but where that farmer can then no longer use it in any way, let alone sell it? He can only look at it. We don't live in Venezuela, do we? This is really not normal, but this is the result of the legislative proposal before us. Why should citizens and entrepreneurs still rely on ownership if it can apparently be affected by a pen stroke?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u48	I have a quiz question for the honourable Member of the VVD. We do that a lot, so I thought, "Let's throw another one in." What's worse? Is that a proposal whereby companies are summoned to cease to exist and do what they are doing at the moment, or is that the bill of Members Leijten, Bruins Slot and Bouwmeester?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u49	Quiz questions are always very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u50	Apparently I'm not intelligent enough, because I don't understand this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u51	That's the danger of such a long question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u52	I suspected Mr Rutte would say that he did not understand and that he would not answer, but I will help him. We know the Law against fur farming. That law requires fur animals to stop farming in ten years and to switch to another holding. That's on moral ethical grounds. That law was passed by the Second and First Chambers. A large majority was in favour and this was supported by the Council of State. The Council of State has found that law to be an agreement. Can the honourable Member give an account of this? As a parliament, we made that act and passed that law. That law has stood, until the supreme judge at this time. Can Mr Rutte give consideration to that in view of his story about the farmer's road?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u53	No, I can't. I am not competent enough to do so in the field of fur farming. I know, however, that legal provisions are laid down that compensation must always be paid to the parties who are expropriated. That's just normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u54	Finally, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u55	That is not the case in this case. This has been about regulating ownership, where companies have been given the opportunity for ten years to recoup an investment and to start a new business. That was the core of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u56	Where do you want to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u57	That law is much and much more radical in regulating property than the bill we are discussing today. The Council of State has taken a positive view of that law. I would just like to point out that the extent to which action can be taken in the form of regulation of ownership by the Council of State is interpreted much wider than the VVD is currently doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u58	It is clear that the VVD has also voted against the law referred to by Mr Van Gerven. Apart from that, it is quite a difference whether you do this kind of profound thing with a huge transition period of ten years or that you regulate the ownership of certain parties at a furious pace with a stroke of pens and do nothing about it. I do not think that this is careful, especially when opinions are issued which show that it is indeed contrary to property law. I understand that the SP attaches less importance to this, but I find it difficult for a lot of other parties who have a strong interest in ownership to agree to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u59	The point is, of course, that ownership is not an absolute thing; it is not something you have nothing to weigh against. Under both laws, you weigh the property right against the general interest. In my view, this has also been the case in the debate on fur farming. But when I hear Mr Rutte talking like that, I wonder: what are we talking about here? We're talking about health insurance. Are health insurance companies? Or are they institutions with a social function that use people's money to buy care? That's what this is about, isn't it? We're not talking about a company that makes a product and then sells that product at a profit, are we? Mr Rutte, too, must recognise that there is a difference between a company that makes products and wants to make a profit on them, and a health insurance company with a clear social objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u60	In our country we do not have public health insurance companies but private health insurance companies that ensure care within very strict public rules. As Mrs Voortman also knows, the VVD wholeheartedly supports those strict public rules. We attach great importance to the care obligations of insurers. We attach great importance to the solvency requirements that insurers have to meet. They can't just do something. However, if private parties have ever put money in such an insurer, it does not matter to say with one stroke of pens: you have lost it. It could be hundreds of millions of euros, for example from people who have insurance at Achmea, who have a house or car insurance or who have a life insurance policy there. That's completely unreasonable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u61	It is a question of whether the money can be used to distribute profits to shareholders or whether that money should be used for the benefit of insured persons. That's what this is about. Mr Rutte talks as if we are talking about private companies, but these are insurers who work under public law, as he himself pointed out in his response. They are therefore institutions with a clear and important role in society. I totally miss that in the speech of the VVD. I knew the VVD was from the market. I knew that the VVD is mainly focused on the commercial interests of companies. But I don't think I'm gonna be too happy that things are going this far. It's also about the interests of people, of insured people, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u62	I'll get back to you on that. I hold this plea very much in the interests of people and insured persons. I attach great importance to the stability of health insurers and to the healthcare system, in which healthcare providers are very dependent on the stability of insurers. And even though this bill deals with things that Mrs Voortman ideologically likes, it does touch on other things, such as property law. That is a fundamental right. When you're in law enforcement, you have to have a real eye for that. There's my big concern, among other things. I shall deal with this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u63	Mr Rutte uses a great many examples, including from agriculture, to strengthen his speech. What I keep hearing is expropriation, expropriation, expropriation. I took the bill once more quietly, but I don't see it. This bill is about regulation. It's about: no profit distributions to shareholders. It's not about expropriation. We're not taking anything, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u64	I do not know how Mrs Dik-Faber would describe it. Let's say I have 600 million euros. A health care provider in trouble says at some point: I need capital. I say, "Okay, I'll give you that 600 million euros to make sure your solvency is back on track, but if you can do it again, if you're healthy again, I'll have to get my money back. I put that money there to keep you stable, but if you're financially healthy again, I'll be able to get that money back in time." And then there comes a legislator who says, "That's too bad. Then you shouldn't have invested it in that health insurance company. You've lost your money." What should I call that other than expropriation? The money's still in the health insurance company. I can look at it, but I'll never get it back. That's expropriation. Even if you are no longer able to dispose of your money, if your property rights are affected, there is expropriation. But in agriculture, for example, it is very common to have to pay compensation in such a case. That is even stated in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u65	I read the bill. It expressly does not prohibit the parties from investing in health insurers. It does not say that parties that have invested in health insurance companies will be expropriated. That's just not the bill. The bill means: investing is fine, but not with profit, because maximum profit instead of maximum quality becomes the focus. I want to make that change. In my view, this is exactly what the initiators of this bill want. I hear the words "expropriation, expropriation" over and over again, but I don't think they do justice to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u66	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u67	I would like to give a very brief answer, Mr President. We have to be very precise. You can write in a description of a law what you may have meant by it. That is exactly what Mrs Dik-Faber is describing. That's probably what the law meant. But the practice is that people who have invested money can never get that money back. The 600 million euros that went from other parts of Achmea to Achmea care are stuck in Achmea care until the end of juttemis and can no longer come out when this law is passed. I hope that Mrs Dik-Faber also realises very well that this is the result. Achmea points out, a.s.r. also points out, Health Insurance companies Netherlands points out, and yes, the Council of State also points out that. I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u68	Proceed, Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u69	I have another question, Mr President. I was just quoting: in 2015, 287 million came from Achmea's health insurance leg. If this bill weren't there, we'd have profit distribution in 2018. Does Mr Rutte see that this can give an incentive to buy less care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u70	I think that is absolutely impossible, because the care obligation in the Health Insurance Act and the strict supervision of the Dutch Health Care Authority do not allow less or less good care to be purchased. The law simply forbids that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u71	That is the system answer that I also get very often from government officials of this government. In practice, all kinds of things are being devised to give less care, for example. People get cut off on care. So the conclusion from Mr Rutte's answer to my first question is that he does not see it. He doesn't see the effect that profit distributions have on companies. That is very special for a VVD'er by the way. It makes sense: you have a business and you want to make a profit. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, unless it leads to people getting less care. But that wasn't spent on the VVD, of which I take note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u72	I can repeat: health insurance companies do their work within strict public rules, which the VVD attaches enormous importance to. The duty of care is a foundation of the Health Insurance Act. It is not appropriate for an insurer to buy insufficient care, incorrect care or inferior care. That's absolutely impossible. The Dutch Healthcare Authority will monitor this and intervene if necessary. And that's a good thing. I have asked the initiators to do two pressing research into the composition of the capabilities of health insurers. That question is very relevant, because if part of that wealth has come from outside over the past 11 years and has not been created by the original reserves and contributions paid by insured persons, it is not allowed to pay out a form of expropriation. That's what you told him. We just talked about that. In the case of expropriation, as stated in both the Constitution and the Financial Supervision Act, compensation must be paid. Mr Koolmees pointed that out. That compensation must be established in advance. Moreover, in this case, the bill affects investors' confidence in the reliability of the government. This can be very negative for investors' willingness to invest in relevant civil society organisations. Think of the many housing care combinations that are being realised at the moment, partly thanks to money from external investors. How can they be confident that such socially necessary investment will be repaid? GroenLinks thinks that the money doesn't have to be returned, that's what we just heard. The initiators' answer to my questions about the composition of the abilities of health insurance companies was very fast up to two times. In the first round, the answer was that the question was not relevant. That was a strange conclusion given the alarming opinion of the Council of State on property law. In the second round, the answer came that the investigation was not necessary. All assets would by definition consist of the dowry from the sickness fund time and any returns on paid care contributions. But then, last Thursday, a letter came from Willem van Duin, the chairman of the board of directors of Achmea group. Turns out what? Achmea's ability to provide care includes more than 600 million euros that have been replenished years ago by other parts of Achmea. Achmea care was in the early stages of the health care system in solvency problems. To the extent that it is EUR 600 million of premium money, it is premium money for car insurance, house insurance and life insurance. It's not a former dowry, and it's not a care premium. These 600 million euros have invested other Achmea components in Achmea care to ensure the stability of health insurance company Achmea. Achmea care is one of the major health insurers in our country and thus crucial for the stability of the entire healthcare landscape. If the present bill is passed, the parts of Achmea will simply be rid of the money they have given to Achmea in the past for the sake of the stability of the system. The chairman of the board of directors of Achmea calls it an infringement of the property rights of a private company and a de facto expropriation that is unprecedented in the Netherlands. Also insurer a.s.r. In the meantime, by letter to the Court, the assets of the health insurers covered by the a.s.r. group are partly made up of private capital contributions by shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u73	In doing so, Mr Rutte indicates that the 600 million we are always talking about have actually been dotations from Achmea's subsidiaries to Achmea's caretaker. But now the world's turned around. I read in the FD that Achmea's concern is doing very well and dots to the other subsidiaries of Achmea. Isn't that right? After all, you would have settled the bill quite well, let me just say on his Dutch. How does Mr Rutte view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u74	Achmea care makes a profit, but does not dot to the other parts of Achmea, because that is not allowed at all at the moment. At the moment the power is still constrained. It is very doubtful whether this will happen in the future. It is essential that the money invested should eventually be allowed back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u75	I do not agree with the latter, because it was in the interest of the entire group that Achmea cares. Just kept doing his job nicely. So that's not what we think. Once he's been doped. Then it is neatly on the balance sheet, the accountant sign it and the money has ended up with the care daughter of Achmea and it is no longer of other parts. In my opinion, the Achmea group is still equally wealthy. That 600 million is still in the group. I do not understand why that is such a thorny point for Mr Rutte at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u76	This shows something very serious, namely that the PvdA understands absolutely nothing about what property rights do. The money is definitely gone. It's within the group, but Achmea care is a separate company in there. It doesn't matter that if a health insurance company doves money to the health insurance company to ensure the stability of that insurer, he can never or never recover that money, even if he needs it for his own business? The millions of people in the Netherlands who have insurance at Achmea can ultimately pay for this and pay the bill for it. I find that incomprehensible. It's a form of expropriation, whether Mrs Wolbert likes it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u77	It's just what level you're looking at it from. Achmea, as a group, has not become less than one euro. The money has been redistributed within the group, but that has been a group choice. I haven't been a billion-dollar driver myself, but I have been millions with different daughters. Everyone knows it's B when you transfer something from A to B, unless you make a loan, but then it's on the balance sheet as a loan and you can pay it back nicely. No one in this room gives a shit about that. If you dot, if something's on one of the daughters' balance sheets and the accountant signs it, it's there. The whole group is not gonna lose a penny of that. It's getting more stable and firmer over all the daughters. I think that's how we talked about it. I do not understand why Mr Rutte is so strong as to defend such a group. After all, we are not talking about expropriation at all. It's about an internal redistribution of the money. No one forced Achmea to do that. That's what it did voluntarily. It's also wise to do something like that. But no euro has been written off from Achmea's balance sheet as a parent company, no way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u78	It's still an amazing answer. Moving money from A to B in a group is a very fundamental decision. It is then of course insane if it can never return from B to A. As long as it was in A, the group could freely dispose of it and do with it what was necessary, but if it puts this money in B with good intentions, the legislator comes along, saying that it must remain there for eternity. That's really weird. Mrs Wolbert would not find that normal in any other form of enterprise; she really would not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u79	What is unusual is that one subsidiary claims from another money's balance sheet, unless that would happen as a loan, but then there are neat agreements between them. This knowingly is voluntary, because it is good for the sake of the group to strengthen parts with power from another part, or because money there simply redistributes or stabilizes better, never happens by chance. That was well thought out, also in terms of: that money might not come back. Apparently, such a group takes that risk. It's also good that it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u80	If you change the rules of the game in the meantime, taking risks is, of course, very weird. When the money was still in Achmea's way, the money could be made available and do the sensible things that were needed at the time, but now that it's in Achmea's care, the money never comes back because we change the rules of the game. That can only be described as a form of expropriation, which is a limitation of the possibility of having that property. That is completely separate from all the solvency ratios that need to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u81	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u82	No, Mrs. Wolbert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u83	I've heard it now. We just don't agree. Maybe we don't get each other either. It happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u84	In addition to Mrs Wolbert's question, I would like to ask the following question. Is it not true that many health insurance companies, especially at the beginning of the health insurance system, had too few reserves and were forced by the supervisor to raise additional capital to meet the reserves? So wasn't it true that there was no voluntary shift from A to B, but that it was a demand of the supervisor to keep extra money? Wasn't that the reason for insurers to move money from the prop leg or the life leg to the health insurance leg? That's my first question. In addition, Mr Rutte always talks about the example of Achmea and a.s.r., but does Mr Rutte have a view on more health insurance companies in which this could play? We just happened to have two letters from a.s.r. and Achmea, but does this apply to more insurers in the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u85	The fact that it was necessary to hold on to money because the supervisor said that the assets needed to be strengthened is simply true. That was necessary. That money had to come. Other roads could have been found. External capital could have been attracted by other means at that time. But if another investor had boarded up, if this bill is passed, he'd just lose his money too. A.s.r. notes also that its capital is partly made up of external capital. I shall return to Mr Koolmees' second question in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u87	It is shocking to note that the initiators seem to have had no contact with health insurers during the legislative process, even though they have very strong judgements on health insurers. So they obviously haven't looked into the actual situation of health insurers. We would never accept that in a government bill. It now appears that the initiators, partly due to a lack of research, have wrongly replied to the Chamber, and that in the case of a bill which the Council of State considers to be contrary to property law. It's incredibly careless, actually. It leads the VVD Group to the following pressing questions to the initiators. We would also like the Minister's role as advisor to reflect on these questions, insofar as they give room for them. Why did the initiators see no reason to discuss with health insurers the consequences of the law they have developed throughout the whole process? Do the initiators think it is normal to develop legislation on a specific target group without submitting that legislation to the target group? For example, would it have been normal for the initiators to make legislation on pgb-holders without exchanging views with pgb-holders and submit the law to them? Do the initiators consider that their initiative law complies with the basic principles of care, as no consultation of health insurers has taken place? As a result, the initiators misinformed the Chamber on an essential subject, namely the question of what the asset position of health insurers looks like. They have said that they are all public resources, but that turns out to be factually incorrect. If they'd figured out the question, they'd have known. Can they back up their answer? Why did the initiators in the opinion of the Council of State not see any reason to seek external legal advice? What legal sources, at least as important as those of the Council of State, do they have that they can conclude that the judgment of the Council of State on ownership is incorrect? Why didn't the petitioners issue all the alarms when the Council of State concluded, among other things, that the bill was contrary to property law? What claims can be expected if the present bill enters into force? Who's gonna pay for the damage? Can the initiators justify this with a sound calculation and corresponding research? Why were the initiators not willing to investigate twice the composition of the capabilities of health insurers? On the basis of what information and what research have the initiators come to the wrong conclusion that health insurers' assets are entirely made up of public funds? How is it that the initiators were not aware of the major problems at Achmea and a.s.r. are created if the present law is passed? And, in line with what Mr Koolmees wanted to know, is it possible that such a problem also affects other health insurers? Are the initiators now prepared to have this properly investigated? What consequences do the initiators draw from the fact that the premise that all the assets of health insurance companies are made up of public money is simply wrong? Are the initiators prepared to amend or withdraw their legislative proposal and, this time, to talk to health insurers, now that they have been found to have based themselves on wrong information?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u88	I would like to take a small point out of the world, at least I hope to be able to do so. Mr Rutte said that there had not been any discussions with health insurers. However, in replying to the questions, I think I read that there was talk with health insurers and that they actually said what is in the answer in many other places, namely that they had no objection because they were not looking for profit. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u89	Not to my knowledge. If I'm wrong, in the sense that there has been talk, it could be. I know, however, that health insurers have generally responded to this type of proposal, in which most have indicated that they are not looking for profit at all. However, that is different from the actual consequence of the legislative proposal as it was made. Normally, you submit it for consultation and parties can find something about it. If the parties then ask questions about them that are fundamental to such a bill that you should still have that contact, you give the right answer because you have been in touch for a while. That didn't happen here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u90	I understand from the answer to the questions that there has been contact with health insurers. I can understand why they didn't make an affirmative statement. However, in order to present the picture of "in bgp legislation, you talk to clients and when you pay a profit, you talk to health insurance companies and the applicants did not do that" I find it annoying. If the proposers have spoken to the health insurance companies, you know that this is the case, then I also think you should say that out loud here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u91	On that point, I will wait for the answer. If I'm wrong, I'll just admit it, of course. I conclude, however, that in the two rounds of questions I have asked very strongly to investigate the capital position and that a factually incorrect answer has been given, suggesting at least that there has been no proper investigation. But we're gonna see it. Mr. Chairman. Between 2011 and 2015, Rob Adolfsen, the former managing director of health insurance company Agis, tried to start a new health insurance company, namely ANNO12, a real co-operative where members could have an intensive participation in the choice of the insurer through an online model and where reducing costs by promoting health would be paramount. A bit of a health insurance company that Mrs Dik-Faber hopes they will all do. However, the creation of such a new insurer proved very difficult for several reasons. One of the big bumps was getting the necessary initial capital. ANNO12 found the solution in a one-off membership fee of €850. That turned out to be too big a bump and it was not possible to start with at least 10,000 insured persons. Perhaps that is a good thing, because the Members would have lost this €850 if this bill were passed, because ANNO12 should never have given it back, not even in small pieces in the form of return. That is precisely the serious infringement of property rights that I have just mentioned and which calls for a more detailed legal analysis. This brings me to my next point: new entrants. One of the things that has failed since the introduction of the Health Insurance Act is to obtain new entrants to the health insurance market. Because there have been many mergers between health insurers during the first ten years of the health insurance system, the choice for consumers has unfortunately declined. This is often complained about here in the House of Representatives: four large groups make up the service and new entrants do not stand a chance. New entrants can only arrive if they have sufficient capital to meet the solvency requirements of the Nederlandsche Bank. But how can new entrants still obtain the required capital if no return can be paid on that capital? Why do the initiators choose to strengthen the position of current health insurers by making joining new entrants virtually impossible? What social purpose is served by strengthening the position of the current health insurance companies? Can the initiators justify how it is still possible to start a new health insurance company in our country if their bill is passed? After all, who could still be prepared to provide the necessary capital, and the composition of that capital then meets the requirements of Solvency II? Have the initiators taken this issue into account at all when submitting this bill, and if so, how was that consideration and how and by whom did they take advice on it? Do the initiators consider it reasonable that participants in health insurance company ANNO12, if that insurer had still existed, would have lost their €850 after the adoption of this initiative law? Can the initiators also comment on the report published today by the Authority Consumer & Markt on entry and growth thresholds in the health insurance market, which concludes that a ban on the distribution of profits makes it more difficult for potential entrants and existing healthcare insurers with growth ambitions to raise capital? The ACM says: "A capital provider wants to receive a reasonable remuneration on the capital invested. If he does not get it, he will not invest in the Dutch healthcare sector." The concerns of the VVD Group about the legislative proposal before us are not just of a legal nature. The VVD Group is also deeply concerned about the financial consequences. It all seems so logical: if health insurance companies are not allowed to make a profit, they can use it for good care or lower premiums. Who could be opposed to that? However, reality is a different one. Both the insurance companies Achmea and a.s.r. if the industry organisation Zorgverzekerings Nederland indicates that this bill could have a significant impact on the solvency of health insurers. Since the bill makes the transfer of capital within the group de facto impossible, the individual health insurance companies within a group will each have to maintain higher capital buffers for themselves to meet the requirements of the Netherlands Bank, and this can have immediate consequences. Even if new capital is needed in the future by new solvency rules or defaulting returns, problems will arise. Higher capital buffers will not be able to be collected from investors, as they cannot be paid a return and there are no investors in the real world who at least do not provide capital for nothing. That actually only leaves a premium increase. In theory, an insurer can knock on the door of a bank for the necessary capital, but it will charge a high interest rate in view of the increased risk. Insurer a.s.r. indicates that an interest rate of 10% must be taken into account which, again, has a negative effect on the premium. Moreover, capital built up from bank loans does not comply with Solvency II rules. Premium increases will therefore in practice be the only way to meet the requirements. Do the initiators find this a desirable outcome? Why, knowingly, do the initiators opt for a law that, as I just outlined, warned the Council of State, will also lead to increases in premiums and not reductions? What social purpose is served by this? Premium increases are not only very negative for the contributor. They can also have far-reaching consequences for the stability and future stability of health insurers, with care providers in their wake. But I think I will have to go into that later, because I see that Mr Van Gerven would very much like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u92	There are dark clouds coming together again above society, at least according to the VVD, if this law is passed. But let's look at the current practice. Reserves have increased by billions in recent years. This has been done under the current system without profit distribution. We are talking about 11 billion or more reserves. How can you say with a dry eye that health insurance companies will find themselves in serious financial difficulties if we allow the current practice to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u93	I don't have a glass ball. I can't predict that 100%. Everything ultimately depends on the degree of solvency of the insurers. We don't know exactly what the future will bring. Mr Van Gerven also knows that there are great differences between insurers. There are a few little ones who really have more problems than the big ones. As long as the insurers are all well capitalised, there is no problem. Care is extremely important and also affects the stability of our society. It's better safe than sorry. When that is not the case, an insurer must be able to raise capital properly. If the only way left is to increase the premium, I find that worrying. Apart from that, a number of insurers point out the following. Since the capital of one part of the group can no longer be in favour of the other, the Netherlands Bank is likely to increase the required capital buffers. This can also have a negative effect in the short term. This is a very technical answer, but it is the way it is. So today's situation doesn't say anything about the situation in one or two years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u94	I think so, because we have a hybrid system with regulated market forces. We can intervene when necessary, including from the government. In today's practice, the insurance companies are just picking up their money. They're bursting with money. It's bumping into the skirts. Next, the VVD says: I can't look into a glass ball, but I predict that they may have to raise foreign capital and can't do that anymore. Isn't it just like this? Insurance companies swim in the money. They have 11 billion or more reserves. However, they refuse to do what we are all in favour of: either investing in improving care or reducing contributions. No, they're just picking it up. That's the reality, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u95	I'm repeating myself. The insurers are very well capitalised at the moment. If this bill is passed, I predict to Mr Van Gerven that insurers will do one thing: even harder, simply because the required capital buffers will go up. Then Mr Van Gerven achieves exactly what he does not want. He is keen on this ideologically, but I do not think he has given sufficient thought to what this could mean in the long term. I'm trying to make a little future-proof and sensible policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u96	The VVD has that doom scenario. It is a question of cheaply acquiring foreign capital by paying out the money to shareholders. Can you follow that, Mr. Chairman? In order to acquire foreign capital, therefore, we need to spend money out of care on shareholders who have nothing to do with their concerns. I don't think that's understandable. I repeat, there is no problem. It is precisely the VVD that is trying to shoot this proposal, which is very good for care, for ideological reasons. She probably does that to strengthen ties with Achmea or a.s.r., with health insurers or I know anyone, or to pursue certain people who may have an interest in this in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u97	In this case, total nonsense is being told by Mr Van Gerven. He might know that, but he probably likes to put it that way or he wants to believe it ideologically. I have no interest whatsoever in anyone except for good care, now and in the future, throughout the Netherlands. Insurance companies play a crucial role in this. As long as the insurers are well capitalised, we will not notice much of them at all if an insurer cannot obtain capital. Well, that doesn't play. In fact, if he can't get capital, he's gonna raise money even more than he is now, because he simply doesn't want to get into that scenario. If an insurer comes under the required solvency and then knocks on the door of the Dutch Bank and says he has to raise capital, I think it is crucial that not only the contributor pays the bill. I do like it when an investor, for example a pension fund, can board for the long term. Such an investor then says: "I am strengthening this, but there comes a time when some of that money has to be returned. I want a modest return on it, not because I love it so much that it is being invested, but because it may simply be necessary." Mr Van Gerven wants us to close that door. The only person who pays the bill is the contributor. That's where I care. If Mr Van Gerven thinks a little bit more about it, that should be his concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u98	We have been in this healthcare system for 10 years now and for 10 years it works fine. The health insurance companies do not need any additional capital at all. They're full of money. They have 11 billion in reserves, of which 7 billion is required. We have also had discussions about this. That 7 billion is pretty high. That could be a little less. However, the Dutch Bank has determined that this must be 7 billion. They have 11 billion in cash, so 4 billion too much. How is it that Mr Rutte added that health insurance companies would need capital and that they would no longer be able to raise capital through this bill? I do not understand Mr Rutte's doom scenarios at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u99	I'm repeating myself. Insurance companies are very well capitalized at the moment and that is a good thing. This contributes to stability. I share Mrs Klever's view. In fact, there could be a little bit back to the contributor, perhaps a little bit more than last year. There's still room in there. That is quite different from the fact that it could not happen that because of changing circumstances such as higher damage charges or this bill, the Netherlands Bank will be making other demands on insurers, which will certainly have to increase their solvency. This has happened in the past. That 600 million euros was deposited at Achmea because it was necessary, because the Dutch Bank said it was necessary. If that scenario is to take place, it must be possible for an insurer to obtain capital. I'd like to keep that option open because otherwise, the contributor will pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u100	Yes, if the Dutch Bank says that insurers need to build more solvency. When the Dutch Bank was in charge, there were certain solvency requirements. After that, the EU was in charge of Solvency II and had to raise solvency requirements. Solvency II actually meant that the requirements of the Nederlandsche Bank had to be raised. If the Dutch Bank were to be in charge, the solvency requirements would be lower. How does Mr Rutte feel about the fact that the Dutch Bank will say out of the blue that the solvency requirements need to be raised? These requirements are already incredibly high and health insurance market is not at all a very difficult market. People can only change once a year. Afterwards, the revenue flow is fairly stable. During the year, no insured people can run away. How does Mr Rutte think that the Dutch Bank will say that solvency must be much higher than the already too high requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u101	The Solvency II rules are as they are. I didn't make them myself. Those rules impose requirements on the capital of insurers. Those demands can change. Solvency rules tend to become stricter rather than less strict. The adoption of the legislative proposal alone, apart from the fact that it will make it more difficult to raise capital in the future, has a negative effect because the assets of one part of the group may no longer be taken into account for the solvency of another part of the group. The adoption of this law alone probably means that under Solvency II the capital buffers must be raised, whether Mrs Klever likes it or not. This is at least something the initiators should have investigated or investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u102	I do not follow that reasoning at all. The bill extends the status quo. The situation we now have is being extended. That doesn't include any other solvency requirement, does it? Moreover, the health insurance companies are bulking the money. They have far more buffers than they should in fact hold. I really do not follow Mr Rutte's reasoning that this means that more capital must be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u103	The current situation is not being extended. That's too simple a thought. We know that in the past money has been provided by investors to health insurers, even if the initiators say not. Those who did so were able to count on the repayment, at the end of the moratorium, of the ten-year period extended once to 12 years. With that, there was always the opportunity to invest and get your money back. If this law is passed, that possibility is no longer available. Whether we like it or not, this has negative consequences for the solvency of insurers now and in the future. Premium increases are not only very negative for the contributor, but can also have far-reaching consequences for the stability and future stability of health insurers and in their wake healthcare providers. If a health insurance company is forced to increase its capital buffer, the rising premiums could lead customers to turn their backs on this insurer. And an insurance company that loses a lot of customers can quickly get into financial trouble. These problems directly affect healthcare providers who depend on that health insurance provider for paying an account. All in all, there is every reason to believe that the present proposal can ultimately lead to significantly higher premiums and a greater risk of instability of health insurers and healthcare providers. That leads to the following questions. Have the initiators at the Nederlandsche Bank asked for advice on the consequences of the bill for the required capital buffers for health insurers and their impact on the premium and stability of health insurers? Have they consulted the Dutch Healthcare Authority on the impact of the bill on the premiums, the stability of health insurance companies and the possible effects on healthcare providers? If not, how then have they come to a decision? What expertise have they consulted on this? Have they thought about this at all and taken into account when drafting and submitting the legislative proposal? Given the potentially far-reaching consequences for the contributors and healthcare providers, are they prepared to seek additional advice from the Netherlands Bank and the Dutch Healthcare Authority? Maybe a little less big, but still: the VVD also sees a financial risk as regards the value of insurer a.s.r. This insurer is owned by the State and is currently being sold. It is important for the Netherlands that the proceeds of that sale are as high as possible. Now that the present bill, provided it is passed, makes it impossible for the two health insurers, which are part of a.s.r., to pay a return, this will have a negative impact on the value of that group. Have the initiators figured out how much that possible reduction of a.s.r. Will be? Have they taken this into account in the drafting and submission of the legislative proposal and are the initiators prepared to find out? Who, according to the initiators, should pay for this reduced proceeds from the sale of a.s.r.? Finally, following the major legal and financial objections and concerns that the VVD has with regard to the present legislative proposal, I would like to address fundamental substantive concerns. Health insurers, supported by a majority of the House of Representatives, have become more and more at risk in recent years. This means that profits and losses are borne by the insurer. A profit distribution or the distribution of return is nothing but a compensation for the risk to the capital provided. Can the initiators state why, despite the risky nature of health insurers desired by a majority of the Chamber, they should not pay compensation for the capital provided to them? Why, according to the initiators, should compensation be given in the form of higher bank interest but not a modest dividend to a pension fund that wants to invest in a long-term health insurance company? What makes a bank loan more in line with public objectives of health insurers than a dividend payment to a pension fund? The initiators indicate that there is a lot of money involved in health insurance and that that market, if we didn't do it, could be interesting as a earning model for investors. They could then encourage the health insurance company to buy less or less good care, Mrs Keijzer pointed out just now that there is more money left for return. In this way, easy money could be taken from care. We should avoid that, so the initiators find. I have to say, I think that's an undesirable scenario, too. But is that even true? Is it really easy to withdraw money from the health insurance companies at the expense of caring for the insured? Can the initiators outline realistic examples and scenarios in which this can happen? Those scenarios and examples must take into account all the safeguards in existing legislation and regulations, because it must be done within them. The VVD thinks that's completely impossible. After all, there is supervision by the NZa of the care obligation laid down in the Health Insurance Act. The insurer is obliged, for all insured persons, to contract all necessary care of good quality at a travelable distance. Under-contracting is contrary to that duty of care and will lead to intervention by the NZa. Easy return cannot be achieved if it puts the solvency under pressure. The Dutch Bank will intervene well before that can happen. Also insured persons will not allow an insurer to pay unnecessary returns to investors. They will quit if there is no explanation as to why return is being paid. I'm rounding up. It is clear that the VVD is deeply concerned about the present initiative proposal. It is contrary to fundamental principles of the rule of law, such as property law. It leads to great uncertainty about that property right and thus extends far beyond health insurers alone. It leads to claims for damages the height of which is not in the picture and causes damage to the so important investment climate in our country. The legislative proposal came into being without consultation of those directly involved, although we are still letting it be assessed whether this conclusion is true. In any case, it has not been properly investigated in part with regard to the capital position. Partly because of this, it is not properly substantiated. It can lead to major financial damage for the Dutch contributors and to instability of health insurers and healthcare providers. This in the eyes of the VVD careless bill doesn't seem to make anyone any better. I therefore sincerely hope that the initiators will take the concerns of the VVD seriously. They could do that by answering the questions this time well-founded in terms of content and seeking external legal and financial advice. There is every reason for that, and let us be honest: there is plenty of time for that too. The draft law may enter into force at the earliest on 1 January 2018. This gives the initiators the opportunity to restore the far too much haste that has been made in the drafting of this legislative proposal. To do good research and seek advice for an initiative law is not a sign of weakness, but rather a sign of wisdom, strength and courage, especially if, as with this bill, the Council of State's opinion is to reconsider the bill as it stands. I therefore wish the initiators that wisdom, strength and courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u104	I just wanted to use the time between two speakers. I want to keep the focus of the debate clear. That is why I withdraw one of my three amendments. That is the amendment to item No. 10, on which Mrs Wolbert and I have had a brief debate on interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u105	The motion for a resolution (Doc. 10) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u106	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues on behalf of the Labour Party for their initiative. I would remind you that the Labour Party voted against the coming of the new Health Insurance Act in 2005. An important motive for the Labour Party at the time was that the group had serious doubts about the introduction of market forces into care. In fact, we can now see that the last ten years have been considerably adjusted towards the better position of the Labour Party. Budget ceilings have been agreed, which has put an end to unbridled growth in the supply of care, which is specific to market thinking. Better arrangements have also been made for settlement, the premium has been reduced or barely increased in recent years, the patient, although it may be much better, has been given a much better position and agreements have been made on how the contract negotiations between health insurance and healthcare provider should be conducted in the sense of decency. More corrections and adjustments have been made. All in all, the adjustments made in recent years have been increasingly in the direction the Labour Party envisages in the private performance of public tasks. The ban on distribution of profits is the most recent. My group welcomes that. That won't surprise the Chamber. The initiators argue that we are actually talking here about no more and no less than a legal consolidation of current practice. This is underlined once again in the most recent letters we received, for example, from healthcare insurers in the Netherlands. In a letter to the Chamber of 23 January Zorgverzekerings Nederland writes that the legal prohibition is actually superfluous because none of the health insurance companies has a profit-making effect. Nevertheless, Zorgverzekerings Nederland objects to the legislation it considers superfluous. It even suggests that the Dutch Bank and a few more heavyweights should look at this seemingly superfluous legislation. I ask the proposers: who is right now? Is it unnecessary legislation and are these heavyweights therefore not necessary at all? Or is it the other way around and should the Dutch Bank and the NZa look at this? So it is not unnecessary legislation at all. What does the recommendation of Zorgverzekerings Nederland say about the current financial robustness of the health insurance companies? A second question to the applicants concerns an argument that the health insurance companies should quote about the fact that, by prohibiting the distribution of profits, one part of the parent company was just extended to cover the purchase of services from another business unit, e.g. ICT services. According to the applicants, profit should be spent on reducing the premium, improving the quality or increasing the risk reserve. And so, as the health insurers argue, internal purchasing of services would no longer be possible. I am assuming that the necessary procurement of services for the performance of tasks of health insurance companies is not normally made out of profit, even if that purchase is made from another group of companies. Purchases for the purposes of the business operation are simply operating costs. Although they determine the result, they are not part of it. How do the initiators view this? Do the insurers have a point here or is my rebuttal of this argument correct? Another objection that the health insurance companies raise is that profit should not be used to cover the risk of another business. We have just discussed this in detail. Conversely, some insurers have in recent years made donations from other business lines, because the care part was loss-making. We are talking about the early years of the Health Insurance Act. How do the proposers look at that? There has been no forced dotation in the eyes of the PvdA Group. Those groups could, of course, have chosen to acquire foreign capital at the start of the Health Insurance Act. They didn't. The reason for this is clear: the premium at the start remained very low, because foreign capital is more expensive. In fact, at the start of the Health Insurance Act, the groups knowingly made sure that other departments did not need to borrow any foreign capital. They took interest and the bounty was low. They pushed other health insurers off the market, but of course they didn't have to. My group is therefore curious to see how the authors of this initiative proposal look at this. I note from the reactions I have received from the client organisations that they wholeheartedly support the prohibition of profit distribution. I take that as a compliment to the proposers, because in the health care sector, considered on the one hand, everyone works out of commitment and drive to the profession, but more often from the motive to help people. Care workers work for the well-being and health of another person. The Labour Party would like to keep it that way, and that is why it does not want to give shareholders, whose motives are often very different, room to introduce a financial motive alongside this motive. I'm rounding up. The PvdA Group supports the commitment not to pay benefits from care to externals, but to return to investments in quality, lowering the premium or increasing risk reserves. The private performance of a public task requires different behaviour than strict market behaviour and a different focus than only profit maximization for shareholders. Without the distribution of profits, the system has worked well in recent years. We firmly believe that it will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u107	Mr. Chairman. The handling of a bill submitted by MPs is always very special. They don't have an entire ministry behind them to do all the work that comes to look at filing and handling such a law. It becomes even more special when several parties table a legislative proposal together. But it is quite unique that opposition and coalition parties jointly table a bill with an important principal charge. Because that is what we can now talk about in dealing with this bill on the prohibition of benefits by health insurance companies. I therefore express my appreciation for the law submitted by the members of the PvdA Bouwmeester, Bruins Slot of the CDA and Leijten of the SP, and for their associates. It has undoubtedly been a great deal of work for them and all those involved. The law has a long history, starting with the introduction of the Health Insurance Act in 2006. It was decided to allow the distribution of profits by health insurers only after ten years, which clearly showed the controversial nature of the distribution of profits by health insurers. On 1 December 2015, in the Eerste Kamer de novelle Wet ontwikking vaatschappelijksbeheerd related to the preservation of former legal reserves Zfw was adopted. It provides that health insurance companies holding former health insurance reserves may not make profits until 1 January 2018 unless they return the former health insurance reserves to the government. This novelle extends the period during which health insurers who have old health insurance reserves are not allowed to make a profit by two years. It is a political compromise between those who are in favour of profit distribution by health insurers and those who do not want it. We are now faced with the decision whether we want to make profit distribution possible by health insurers and third parties outside of care in 2018. For the SP, benefits in health care are like curses in the church. We therefore wholeheartedly support this proposal. Why is this proposal desirable? In order to achieve good, well-accessible and efficient care, the distribution of profits to shareholders or third parties is undesirable, as the financial benefit of socially invested funds shifts to an external party. This legislative proposal promotes the importance of quality and accessible care. This is done in concrete terms by the fact that, although profit is not prohibited, it can only be used to reduce the premium, improve care or strengthen the reserve position. That's in the best interest of the insured person. In this way, contributions remain within the care. Although health insurers are often non-profit-making now, this does not offer any guarantee for the future. The current practice should therefore be laid down in the law. In fact, it is not inconceivable that, when the opportunity for profit distribution is created by the legislator, health insurers will eventually take over. Think of examples elsewhere in the care, such as the IJsselmeer hospitals who changed their legal form from a foundation to a private company pending the bill that allows profit distribution by hospitals. What other risks are there? By allowing profit distribution by health insurance companies, you run the risk of shareholders placing the financial result above the general interest of a well-functioning healthcare system. Making a profit is then the primary goal instead of having a health care system in which quality care is purchased. This may lead to the perverse incentives to avoid certain groups of insured persons or purchase worse care. Allowing profit distribution would also mean that the positive result would not fully benefit the insured person through a lower premium and to the patient through better care or maintenance of reserves. The positive result could go to shareholders, which would result in public funds being transferred to private parties. The proposers want social money from contributions, general funds and own contributions from insured persons to remain available to keep the care affordable, including in the long term. The SP also takes this view. Is it in violation of the system? Unlike the Council of State, the SP does not consider that the proposal is at odds with the nature of the Health Insurance Act. The system as introduced eleven years ago is a private system characterised by public-law conditions. It was therefore a hybrid law from the outset, in which, on the one hand, you have elements of competition and market forces, and, on the other hand, measures to curb this competition and market forces, because this was considered socially desirable. The legislative proposal is an extension of these public-law framework conditions for the future, because we already have this situation. In this sense, it restricts the functioning of the market and competition, but does not fundamentally alter the hybrid nature of the Health Insurance Act. Competition between insurers remains possible in accordance with current practice. The bill doesn't fall out of the sky either. It reflects the way society looks at benefits in health care and the risks associated with them. The idea of profit distribution in the public sector cannot count on much support. What do you think if primary schools were to pay off profits, or the police? It is true that health insurers are private institutions, but they organise a public service that society considers so crucial that profit distribution does not fit in with that. Over the back of patients, you shouldn't make a profit, is a deeply felt value in our society. The legislative proposal is a safety lock to prevent inefficient and undesirable use of public funds. The system is not static and has undergone many unforeseen changes in recent years when it was introduced. The aim of the legislative proposal is only to perpetuate the current practice of non-profit distribution, nothing more and no less. Then I come to the question of whether it is contrary to European law. Contrary to the picture that some seem to always have, this initiative legislative proposal does not result in expropriation of reserves or a ban on profit-making. Healthcare insurers retain their reserves and can simply continue to make profits, as they did that year in, year out. The profit alone cannot be distributed, but it can be used to reduce the premium, improve care or strengthen the reserve position. It is therefore only a question of regulating the right of ownership. What is the European Convention on Human Rights about regulating the right of property? This can be done if interference with the right of ownership takes place by law, serves the general interest and is proportionate to the objective pursued. This bill provides for point 1: the general interest is served. It provides for point 2 by setting the profit for goals that include improving care. Finally, point 3: interference is proportionate because it is not possible to achieve the same objective with a less significant measure. The interference in the interests of health insurers resulting from this measure is in balance with the importance of protecting the patient and insured person. Moreover, interference in the regulation of ownership is only limited. There are many far-reaching forms of interference which are considered acceptable by society, the government and the courts. A recent example is the ban on fur farming. The Court of Justice of the Hague has ruled on appeal that the Law on the Prohibition of Pelsdier Farming is lawful. Recently, the Supreme Court confirmed this. This law lays down that fur animals must have stopped farming by 2024 at the latest. The court in The Hague considers that fur farms could have known that the production of fur is controversial and that there has been a long discussion about banning it. Let's get back to the bill before us. There is no doubt that the health insurers were aware of this and that this is a controversial issue and that it is not unthinkable that politics would sooner or later come up with legislative proposals to prevent profit distribution to third parties. It is striking that most health insurance companies and health insurance companies in the Netherlands did not oppose the current bill, at least until recently, until a few days ago. 'Cause who's sketching my surprise? At the eleventh hour, Achmea came forward and spoke out against legislative proposal 34522. Achmea's letter states that it embraces the cooperative idea that makes profit distribution of health insurance companies impossible. As you know, it says that it embraces the cooperative idea that makes profit distribution of health insurance companies impossible. However, it is against the law because it would affect the dynamics of the healthcare system and thus the quality and accessibility of care. I can't make a chocolate out of this. So I would like to receive a response from the authors to the letter from Achmea. At 11 o'clock also has a.s.r. reported in. That insurer is also sending a double message. On the one hand, a.s.r. does not intend to pay profits, as it has statutory commitments that it does not have a profit-making effect with its basic insurance. A little further down we read: profit maximization at the expense of our insured persons is still excluded from our moral beliefs in the future. On the other hand, for her magical reasons, she also opposes the ban on distribution of profits. I can't make chocolate out of that either. So I would also like to get a response from the proposers to the letter from a.s.r. Also at the eleventh hour Zorgverzekerings Nederland finally has itself, yes, in the end! Reported. Literally, the health insurance companies write: "Health insurance companies have been non-profit-making for years and have no reason nor need nor a simple opportunity to change that." A little further on we read: "ZN stresses, should there be a misunderstanding about this, that none of the health insurance companies is profit-making." The word "none" is therefore emphasized. Next, we read that ZN gróte now I would like to stress this word, which has reservations about the legislative proposal 34522. You have to remember that song, because it is an important bill, namely the bill banning the distribution of benefits to health insurers. After that, ZN indicates that the initiative legislative proposal may have undesirable effects in its current form. It is therefore becoming even more complicated, since it suggests that health insurers are not responsible for banning the distribution of profits for health insurers. I can't make chocolate out of this, either. So would the authors also like to comment on this letter? Fortunately, the bill 34522, the bill banning the distribution of benefits to health insurance companies, is also receiving approval today. This support comes from Patient Federation Netherlands, from patients and from 120,000 healthcare professionals, who operate in the heart of our healthcare system. They fully support the proposal from the proposers. They do so on professional grounds, but they are also concerned about what happens when benefits are paid by health insurance companies. In particular, they are concerned about what Achmea is going to do. Achmea is the largest health insurance company in the Netherlands and its care-taker is the major profitmaker of the group. Of the profits in 2015, 287 million came out of the total profit of 386 million of this caretaker. The VvAA company that originally stands for Association of Doctors Motorists; it is a somewhat old name, that certainly, but this association represents up to 120,000 healthcare professionals... does not consider it impossible that morbid shareholders of Achmea will force a profit distribution from the health insurance business. This can be done by a simple amendment of the statutes. As a result, Achmea's distribution of profits is likely to be at the expense of more than 5 million individual insured persons, or almost a third of the total number in the Netherlands. How do the applicants assess this, as well as the other elements mentioned in the VvaA letter? It is good that this legislative initiative is now on the table. It is clear from statements made by the health insurers themselves, at least before yesterday, by the Minister and by the Chamber that benefits are not intended by health insurers and that, moreover, socially undesirable and controversial. According to the initiators, these statements have a normative effect. The present legislative proposal aims to lay down this standard in legislation and thus responds to a widely cherished wish. Benefits paid by health insurers and effective care are incompatible quantities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-33.u108	We came here at the end of the first term of office. The first-term response by the initiators will take place next Thursday at 10.15 a.m.
