ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u2	Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the bill on owners' associations tonight. There are about 125,000 of these associations and they are extremely diverse, from just a few homes to large complexes. A total of 1.2 million homes are involved. There are associations that have everything in order, and associations that have virtually nothing arranged. Living in an apartment complex has the consequence that there are not only individual rights under property law, but also collective responsibilities and obligations. The Labour Party is right to believe that legal rules should be laid down for this collective responsibility. Thus, the owners who take the collective responsibilities seriously are protected against the owners who do not or do not do enough. This bill takes a number of good steps to improve those legal rules. In particular, we have examined whether this proposal brings the legal protection of the weakest parties in vves to an adequate level. The weakest parties are generally the owners-dwellers and tenants in apartment complexes. The bill regulates the mandatory reservation for maintenance. Reservations should be made on the basis of a multi-annual maintenance plan. That must at least meet minimum requirements. If there is no such plan, the reservation for maintenance shall include at least 0.5% of the reconstruction value. The Labour Party would actually consider it wiser if, in all cases, a multi-annual maintenance plan became mandatory. This costs money, but it also gives more legal certainty and more clarity to current and future owners. It is about defining the maintenance situation and the rights and obligations that owners have towards each other. Especially when purchasing an apartment it is often very difficult to estimate what future charges can be expected. Why does the Minister make a different assessment and does he consider that the legal protection of new buyers of apartments in the current situation is sufficiently protected? The Labour Party agrees with the representative of the VvE Interest that the compulsory contribution to the reserve fund should actually be paid annually, including by large owners. The Minister left open the possibility for associations to take decisions themselves. The Labour Party is afraid that in those cases it may happen that the money will not be available in time when maintenance is required, because an owner may be bankrupt and has sold his apartment in the meantime. We have seen that Mr Ronnes has tabled an amendment on this. We would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. The Labour Party is satisfied with the possibility for the association of owners to conclude loans. This makes it possible to perform additional preventive maintenance. Borrowing can also help if some residents cannot get the financing individually. When selling the apartment, the share in the obligation is transferred to the new owner. That is fair, because that new owner will enjoy the continued benefit. With regard to energy saving by VVEs, we have another wish. We would like to see a decision on profitable investments with a payback period of 10 years or less no longer requiring a qualified majority, but sufficient majority voting. This promotes sustainability and does not create additional costs for apartment owners, because they can see the return in their energy bill. We have tabled an amendment on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u3	I have a point of order first. That amendment has not been tabled, so that makes it difficult to debate it. I therefore hope that this will be done soon. Just a little bit of substance. I am trying to see what it means what Mr De Vries is going to pour out on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u4	Let's get to the point of order first. Mr De Vries, when do you intend to table the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u5	I delegated it to my associate, and he commissioned Bureau of Legislation at about 5:15 p.m. So it should have been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u6	You're always responsible, aren't you? You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u7	I understand, but you're asking how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u8	It should have been there, in your opinion. We're gonna see if we can speed it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u9	If I understand correctly, Mr De Vries wants to make it possible for people, against their will, to be taken into account by the other half of the vve in investments in sustainability. When it was about tenants, Mr De Vries said that there should be a housing security. There had to be a guarantee that no tenant would go down a penny if they were preserved. Where's the housing security in this idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u10	The Labour Party advocates the possibility of taking a decision with a slightly smaller majority. The same dilemma that Mr Van der Linde presents also arises when the requirement is that 61% or 71% of the owners should be ahead of it. So that doesn't make any difference. The reason we are tabling this amendment is that we want to speed up sustainability in this kind of difficult decision-making process. The condition in the amendment I will table...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u11	The amendment is now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u12	The condition in the amendment I have tabled is that the payback period is ten years or less. That must be sufficiently proven. If so, the owner who participates in sustainability will see it on his energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u13	Who's gonna prove that? Who's gonna check that out? Where do I, as co-owner, get the assurance that it will actually be paid back in ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u14	If the law states that such decisions can be taken by simple majority and the condition is that it must be earned back in ten years or less, then the board of the vve is responsible for proving that the payback period is ten years or less. If that turns out not to be true in the end, owners have the opportunity to address the board accordingly. Other rules are laid down in the legislation, which are also based on a payback period. There have been cases of five years, there have been cases of ten years. That's just what the law says, and apparently we can keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u15	My observation is that Mr De Vries says about tenants that they should not go backwards. He wants to set that up in the housing security. However, he says about buyers that they have to figure it out with their vve and that he is not going to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u16	We are going to get involved, because I say that such a proposal really has to meet the requirement that it must be shown that it will be paid back within ten years. We cannot impose exactly the same requirements on owners' associations as on tenants. However, I try to get as close to it as possible in the wording of my amendment. We still have doubts about enforcement. Shouldn't administrative enforcement opportunities be extended to make the adaptation to this law effective? An individual owner is generally extremely weak compared to a larger owner in the association. Things don't always go as neatly in those kinds of situations. Unfortunately, there are many situations where less cooperative cottage milkers are co-owners. I tell no secret when I say that this category of owners still exerts pressure that may exceed the limit of intimidation. That is why we are calling for a policy of sanctions to be developed to better protect the owners, residents and tenants. We are looking forward to the Minister's response to this. Even more difficult is the legal protection of the tenant in apartment complexes. We have understood that there are some large landlords, as far as we know, all corporations that facilitate tenants' participation in the management and maintenance of the residential building in which they live. Does the Minister agree with the Labour Party that it would fit into this law to give tenants at least the right of access to the general assembly of members and the right to an advisory vote? We also wonder what the position of the tenant is when he addresses the owner and wants to solve the problem, but the vve does not or does not do so in time. What rights does a tenant have in such a situation? Another important point we consider to be adjustments for people with disabilities. A resident may call on the Wmo for adjustments behind his front door, but in the common area the vve must invest in accessibility. How can the resident enforce this? Are or are there gonna be rules for that? The Royal Notarial Professional Organisation is working on a new model regulations for VVEs. This would become available in 2016 and the Minister would consider whether this would give rise to the inclusion of certain issues in the law. What is the status of this model regulation and can we possibly expect a new legislative amendment if that model regulation gives rise to it? Last year there was a lot to do about the service flat Boswijk in Doorn. Is the problem of service flats with this change of law easier to address? If not, what else should be done to prevent such problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u17	Mr. Chairman. The CDA welcomes this proposal. In particular, the legal obligation to reserve sufficient money for necessary maintenance of apartment complexes appeals to us. As a starter at the market, you'll want to start quietly with the purchase of an apartment and the contribution to the vve is not so bad. It seems like a nice place to start with. But when you're a year away, it turns out there's concrete rot, the roof of the complex leaks, spoils the place and doesn't give the vve home. Then it turns out why the vve contribution was so low. If there's no money for maintenance, you have a problem. There are many such situations. Fortunately there is now more attention to it and the number decreases, but still brokers hide the vve-cost when they sell an apartment. There are vves that allow the short-term own interest of a low vve contribution to prevail over the long-term interests of a well-maintained apartment complex. We also welcome the fact that the possibility for vves to take up a loan is being laid down. I'll be on box three. We are not quite satisfied with the explanation as to whether an apartment owner's share of the reserve fund should fall into box 3. Legally speaking, there is a right of membership. The vve is the legal owner of the reserve fund, but the value of that fund is reflected in the value of the membership right. Can the Minister state if this is true? Can he also confirm that the value of the membership right does not affect the WPA value at all? If the property is valued higher by a large reserve fund, the taxpayer is taxed both in box 1 and in box 3 for his share of this fund. The main problem is that legal and economic realities differ. Legally, you have a membership right that represents money, but that's only on paper. You cannot have your share in the reserve fund, but you have to pay taxes on it. You can't sell your membership right and make money if you stay in your home, but you have to pay taxes on it. Would it not be much more just, I ask the Minister, to exempt this right of membership in box 3? I'm coming up on the hard pecunia now. We do not agree with the Minister on one aspect of the legislative proposal before us. It concerns compulsory maintenance reservations, which, according to this law, can also be paid in the form of a guarantee. A guarantee is a document, a piece of paper with signatures, with which the contractor who repairs the roof of a complex cannot be paid. You need hard pecunia for that. The current legal text may mean that a vve does not have the actual money at its disposal. We have therefore tabled an amendment which provides for the annual reservation fee to be paid into a bank account in the name of the owners' association before the end of the year in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u18	That amendment is in and has number seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u19	The background to this is that the vve should be able to pay bills. A vve doesn't need a stack of bank guarantees. Furthermore, it is not unimaginable that an owner of an apartment goes bankrupt. So what's the situation? That guarantee evaporates and the vve can whistle at the money. The Minister states that a majority within the vve can decide whether or not to use bank guarantees. But in many situations, investors or corporations have a major interest within a vve, with which they dominate governance. That's when perverse stimuli come on. Then vve's might not be able to reserve enough money for maintenance again. We shouldn't want that. Hence this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u20	I now give the floor to Mr Bashir of the SP Group, who has signed up for the longest speaking time this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u21	Mr. Chairman. There are 121,000 associations of owners. These are home owners who together provide maintenance of, for example, the roof or stairwell. Together they bear the responsibility for the building and often it goes very well. Unfortunately, things don't go well too often either. The bill now before us has to fix this. In order to improve the late maintenance of buildings at VVEs, it was stated in 2008 that each vve had to hold a reserve fund. We are now eight years ahead and a quarter of the VVEs have too little money in the reserve fund and even one fifth of the VVEs have no reserve at all. It is now proposed that the annual mandatory reserve of a vve should be a minimum amount, which would amount to half a percent of the rebuilt value. The SP Group can therefore support this proposal. At the same time, we are aware that this goes a long way. You're forcing people to save up for something, and besides, that savings are taxed. But what if a vve has already saved a lot of money? This is not imaginary, by the way. I don't know many vves, but the vves I know have saved a lot of money. This bill obliges people to start saving more. If they do not wish to do so, they must support it through a multi-annual maintenance plan. In both situations it will cost money. Or you're gonna deposit money every year and then you're out of the obligation. Unless you hire an agency that also costs a few thousand euros to draw up a plan that shows you have enough cash in your pocket. And that is what we want to do with this bill, when we want to tackle vves who are unwilling, who do not fulfil their obligations, who do not have enough cash and who do not carry out maintenance. We therefore propose, by means of an amendment, to delete the saving for vves who already have enough money in their pockets. That amendment has now been distributed. If you already have 5% of the rebuilt value of your property in cash, that amendment does not require you to save annually.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u22	The amendment in question is part of the text of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u23	There is an obligation for a minimum reserve but the Minister has forgotten that he must also think about enforcement. The minister literally writes: there is no active government supervision. So what I'm wondering is why there's no enforcement. Information by municipalities, the government and trade associations did not ensure that all VVEs saw the need to have a reserve fund. Why, then, would this bill improve on those 50% of those who are now doing nothing or too little? I'd like to know who's gonna check with those 60,000 vves to see if they're okay. How does the Minister keep track of whether the late maintenance is being dealt with? A municipality can only intervene if the situation is so serious that safety or health is at stake. Should we not intervene earlier if there is cause for this, for example if there is a clear lack of maintenance or if there is a savings fund but there is no maintenance? The possibility for a vve to take on a loan is clarified in this bill. The Minister states that it provides security to banks. In addition, the Minister writes that the government does not expect more loans to be granted. However, I wonder how the vves can carry out their future tasks if, at the same time, more loans are not expected to be granted. Then where's the problem? A concern are the inter-power relations within a VVE. And this bill doesn't change that, while we all know examples of owners with multiple apartments or of specific problems in mixed complexes. Why are no measures taken to deal with this? Wouldn't it be better to expect owners to just deposit the money into the vve's account instead of giving a guarantee? After all, what is the use of a guarantee when it is required to carry out necessary maintenance? If such an owner goes bankrupt, the vve must also try through the court to cash in that guarantee, while in reality just some money is needed to do the maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u24	At first, I thought I heard wrong. What if I'm in a vve with two, three or four apartments? Will Mr Bashir really say that he wants to send someone from the government or from the municipality to see if we are keeping track of everything properly and if, for example, everything has been cleaned properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u25	We're talking about late maintenance. If someone from the municipality or one of the neighbors comes by and finds that the property is spoiled, then of course the vve can be addressed. At least I would find that useful, even in the general interest. After all, back-up maintenance can cause dangerous situations. Think of rooftops falling down from the building or other parts of the building that can reach passers-by. It's also about security. It would therefore be useful if there is indeed supervision, so that a vve does the maintenance that needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u26	But that is what you would really like to do with all the other houses, which are not part of a vve, because all of them can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u27	I'd say that's for sure. With a housing corporation you know who to address, namely the landlord or the housing corporation. That's easier too, because it's usually benevolent. However, in the case of a vve, these examples are of course known to us that the property is very badly maintained. If there is no money in cash, it is very difficult to contact the owners. Soon there will be a law regulating the need to spare, but if no one complains and the municipality has no powers, you can do nothing at the end of the day. Then we have a law, but nothing is happening about the maintenance itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u28	Mr Bashir and I are so far apart from the right to property that I leave it at that. They don't even do this in North Korea, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u29	Eventually, it's about what kind of street you want. What kind of street view do you want? What kind of neighborhood do you want? Do you want the neighborhoods to be well maintained, do you want the houses to be well maintained, or don't you want them to be? With tenants, everyone thinks it is normal that the owner of a rental house can be contacted. The housing corporation is called upon, and then that corporation is also going to carry out maintenance. However, when it comes to owners, suddenly the property right comes up and apparently owners don't have to do anything anymore, even if the place is spoiled. I do not think that is possible and I believe that this bill should also be used to appeal to owners. They should not only save, but they should actually do the maintenance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u30	Thank you very much. You're quite apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u31	Mr. Chairman. You are the proud owner of a flat and that means that together with the other owners you make arrangements about the painting and cleaning of the stairwell and of course about the periodic inspection of the lift. That cooperation between owners is regulated by law with an association of owners, and it is perfectly normal that every resident pays a monthly contribution to it. But what happens if this isn't normal, if no one feels called to sit on the board of the vve, so that there's no money in the greenhouse while the roof leaks? It has already been said that there are 121 000 vve's and one third of them are inactive. In practice, there are many owners who cannot or do not want to contribute to the common costs. We also see a lot of house milkers in that category. If half of a complex is in the hands of an asshole, the other well-willing owners have a good look at it. Filthy stairwells, leaky roofs, leafy paintwork: I don't think that's normal. That's not how you want to live. And I'm not even talking about the hardworking family in Rotterdam that had to have his house demolished by order of the municipality because the pawn shop owner in the same block didn't want to do anything about pile rot. That's the kind of problem we can solve with the bill. What are we gonna do? The residents together draw up a maintenance plan and agree on what they will have to pay monthly to the vve. They can also agree not to perform maintenance or maintenance themselves and therefore pay nothing. If they do not come out, a legal minimum of 0.5% of the rebuilding value applies. As an individual resident, you can rely on this if you are in the final case in court. In that respect, the SP amendment seems superfluous to me, because you can simply agree to allow money to flow back or not to save any more. It will also be easy for vves to enter into a mortgage loan, for example for sustainability or maintenance for which no reservation is made. The VVD agrees with the bill. From a liberal point of view, it is a pity that we have to dictate to residents how much they should reserve, but the protection of the living enjoyment of the benevolent citizen must be paramount here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u32	I am being challenged, Mr President, because it is said that my amendment is superfluous. If a complex already has enough cash in it, wouldn't it make sense for us to put in a bill that says that people are obliged to save, also that that obligation doesn't apply if you have enough cash in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u33	It already says in the bill that they can decide that themselves with all of them. They can create a multi-annual maintenance plan. They can say they're gonna do it themselves and not go on saving. If you do that by mutual agreement, it's already possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u34	Suppose a complex of three apartment units has to create a multi-annual maintenance plan. Does the VVD realize that you're talking about a lot of money or that at least you've lost a lot of time to make such a plan, while we can also just give people clarity? If you have enough in cash, namely the percentage that I have mentioned about that percentage can be talked about, then you do not have to save.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u35	That is exactly what we discussed two years ago in the context of this bill. Then we said it shouldn't be a big paper exercise. If you put your multi-annual maintenance plan on half an A4's, it's fine, too. You can decide that between yourselves. That's the core of the bill. The core is also that you decide on reservations together. It's gonna go wrong if you don't get out of there. Then I want to protect that one good-willing resident of one of those blocks from the rest, but the starting point of this law is that you do your own business? That is why I am appalled by Mr Bashir's idea that someone from the municipality should come along or that someone from the municipality should check what the maintenance plan looks like. That's none of the city's business!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u36	If you really stand up for the well-willed owners and not only want to deal with the unwilling ones, you also have to give clarity to those willing owners: if you have enough money in cash, you don't have to worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u37	But that's what the bill says. Mr. Chairman. I said that the pleasure of the benevolent resident must be at the forefront and that we can agree with the bill. This is going to be a little different when it comes to the amendment that Mr De Vries has just tabled. This could mean that this benevolent owner suddenly needs to make thousands of euros more sustainable because the big investor in that property has so decided. How would the 87-year-old lady who really doesn't want troubles feel about that? It is a pleasure to live here, but what Mr De Vries wants is simply an infringement of your property right. In addition, I think that this is a thorough method of undermining the social basis for sustainability; I am just saying as I think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u38	Mr. President, this is what they call entrapment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u39	Or a difference of opinion, election time, choose!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u40	Mr Van der Linde makes a distinction between deciding something by 51% or deciding something by another percentage. In both cases there are people of 89 who look up to it. In both cases, there are people who can say what Mr Van der Linde has to say about ownership. I don't see the difference. I only see a need to make speed with sustainability in the Netherlands. In an association of owners there are always people who look up to the troubles and misery of what has to happen, or people with a very short horizon who think they live there for a short time. I believe that the social interest must be weighed against the interests of the other residents. Then it must be possible by a simple majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u41	I think it's perfectly normal that when it comes to your own home, you and other owners take care of business and the government doesn't interfere. If you agree to make decisions on sustainability by 51%, that's fine. Mr De Vries forbids the owners from actually saying: we only make such important decisions by qualified majority. He shall exclude that possibility from the statutes. Surely it can't be that the government is going to tell me what to decide with the co-owners about the maintenance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u42	Once again, Mr Van der Linde does the same. Whether 71% or 51%, socially it is necessary to speed up the sustainability of the built stock. We have made agreements in the energy agreement and we are way behind that. I think we should turn a little bit on the buttons we have. I really think it is perfectly reasonable in this case to take such a decision with 51%. That's half plus one. In a lot of situations, that's enough to make decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u43	This is the core of the VVD. We think it's normal that when it comes to your own home, you can decide for yourself about the investments in it. If you have to do this in vve context, then you also have to agree on how that decision-making takes place. I think it's a big deal that the government would go about that. In fact, if this amendment succeeds, we are talking about a far-reaching intervention on property rights. This bill would just have to go back to the Council of State. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. It is a pity that the debate is going this way, because these loans are the major gain in the legislative proposal. In view of the energy agreement, the VVD wants the VVDs to be able to achieve maximum sustainability, but on a voluntary basis. In the report I asked the necessary questions about the tax treatment of the mortgage loan. This debt is allocated pro rata to the members of the vve and is transferred to the new owner in the event of sale. A mortgage debt of the vve is tax deductible as an equity debt while a positive asset falls into box 3. Can the Minister explain the logic of that? If it's positive, it's in box 3, and if it's negative, it's a home debt. Like colleagues, I also received a visit from VvE Belang, who is concerned about the fact that large owners can make their contribution to the vve in the form of a guarantee. The Minister writes in the note following the report that it is up to him to determine the requirements for such a guarantee. Mr Ronnes has tabled an amendment to which I would like to hear the Minister's response. Did we miss anything? VvE Interest concerns large investors, but what does this mean for the private owner? I can imagine that many people would prefer to put their money in the bank and agree that they will pay when the time comes. Again, I think you should be able to agree with each other. If we adopt Mr Ronnes' amendment, will we ban it? Do we then forbid the contribution in kind? I think about the gentleman who mops the stairwell every week or the painter who grabs the brush on Saturday. That remains possible, I hope. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. We are now introducing a minimum reservation that residents can enforce against each other. So it is not a reservation standard that the municipality can just use to look behind the front door or to force a renovation. Can the Minister confirm this, aboundingly, heard the debate just now? For dealing with shacks, we have other means, such as the Housing Act. I believe we adapted it to that in 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u44	Mr. Chairman. I'm allowed to replace my colleague Barry Madlener who's indisposed tonight. I have a fairly short contribution. There's six minutes, but it's got to be shorter. Much has already been said about the vve itself. Several colleagues have actually already given a little lecture on what a vve does. That's really good. A lot of people have gained experience with a vve themselves. They know what that is and they know that buying a house entails obligations. They know you have to take care of things inside the vve. According to the Minister, this bill should ensure that vve's in the Netherlands do even better, namely to maintain the buildings they are responsible for. According to this law, this is not only about necessary maintenance, but also about energy efficiency. That is where the PVV is going to itch, especially because it is mandatory to ensure energy efficiency. My first question to the Minister is: is this law really necessary? Indeed, in the explanatory statement, I read that research shows 'that 51% of the vves do not actually reserve enough'. It is therefore a majority, almost half; let us ignore that 1%. In ordinary people's language, the Minister means to say that half of the vves currently reserve enough money. That is the other side of the matter. I have a question about that, too. What happened to the belief of this liberal minister in the responsibility of the people in these VVEs? Why does the Minister think it is necessary to have a legal basis for dealing with these matters? A law is a very heavy instrument. Did the minister really look at all the other ways? The previous speaker has already made a comment on piss-off. In 2014 we have already amended the Housing Act in order to prevent rebuffing. But there is also the discipline of the market. That sounds very heavy, but that's what it's called. We also have the banks. They're involved, too. We hear from notaries that the banks are now exerting pressure to raise the reserves held. Otherwise, they won't give us a loan. That's a market incentive, isn't it? Why doesn't the Minister believe in this road? Why, in a nutshell, does he choose Marx instead of the market? I'd like to hear a response. My second point concerns enforcement. The numbers of vve's have already been mentioned. How does the Minister intend to control all these vves? How does he intend to ensure that the 51% of those who are currently underbooking will soon have sufficient buffers? How's the secretary gonna check that out? How will the law ultimately be respected? Do we have to have an army of civil servants pulled over for that? Should we open a can with civil servants going through all the doors? Should they attend all the meetings of VVEs? If we do not have enough reservations, will we have a strict official who is going to run such a meeting and then tap people's fingers? How's that going? Perhaps a miss of the municipality is needed for this with a club and tight glasses on. How's the Minister gonna do that? The PVV doesn't see that happening so soon. We also have great difficulty with the fact that housing costs can go up through this law. The Minister himself has already acknowledged that this can happen. The PVV wants the housing costs to be reduced. Does the Minister also see a responsibility for homeowners here? The PVV sees its own responsibility here. Residents, members of the Vve, should themselves assume the financial responsibility to keep the reserves sufficiently high. The PVV finds it only normal for a new resident to ask about the position within the vve before the purchase. Lots of real estate agents tell you that when you buy a house. Does the Minister share our opinion on this? This change of law is, of course, two-fold; I said that at the beginning of my contribution. There's a sustainability factor in it. This law is not only about the functioning of the vve, but also about agreements in the energy agreement. This law is used to make the built environment more sustainable. It is well known that the PVV has always been an opponent of the energy agreement. This legislation is partly the result of that energy agreement. That is why this bill does not have to count on much sympathy from the PVV. Making ownership energy efficient is not a priority for the PVV. This must be done through incentives from the residents themselves. We think it's very good to be sustainable, but it's not expensive. Self-responsibility is the most important thing. We do not want any pressure on sustainability. The Social and Cultural Planning Office doesn't always have our biggest friends. However, I would like to quote them this time. Here's what they say. "In general, there is little support for mandatory environmental measures from the public authorities. Only 15% would like the government to act much harder by banning or taxing forms of energy use and by imposing high demands on energy saving and sustainability." Under 85% of the population, therefore, this has no basis for support. I will ask a question about this later, but now Mr De Vries is at the interrupting microphone, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u45	I'll keep an eye on all that. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u46	Does Mr De Graaf give up the legal protection of all those small owners who are dealing with a house milker who is serving in the same complex because the bill states that sustainability is also being promoted? Is the PVV going to abandon all those people, because somewhere in the bill there is the word "sustainability"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u47	Mr De Vries may have missed the first part of my speech. I also talked about our own responsibility, about agreements that stimulate a broker, that stimulate banks, that things are said from the notary's point of view that point in that direction. The market must also provide sufficient incentives. We don't let people down at all. If we do not adopt this law, it does not mean that all those people are in the cold and have no legal protection at all. That is, of course, a misrepresentation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u48	We are now living in such a situation where all these institutions are watching, but there are quite a few complexes that are squandering. A lot of people in their vve have no influence at all and see their property decay because the rest do not want to participate or they feel pressured by a large owner. Does the PVV abandon people who suffer damage in the current situation with their own responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u49	No, we're not abandoning them. We still have the Housing Act. It's just been mentioned. In addition, it remains partly the case that you make appointments when you move somewhere, also with a larger resident there. You also have a choice not to live there. So there's plenty to choose. I come to my last question to the Minister. Why does the Minister continue with this kind of legislation if according to the SCP there is only 15% support for the population? Perhaps it is better to listen to the people very carefully this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u50	Mr. Chairman. My group supports the importance of necessary maintenance and investment in sustainability for owners' associations. If the necessary maintenance is not carried out, it is bad for the value of the building and thus for the housing in that building. This can lead to unsafe situations and can cause degeneration in the neighborhood. The question raised by this bill is whether we should make the reservation of money by vve's compulsory. You might ask yourself that. Reservations are in the interests of the members of the VVE itself. Then there should be no need for an obligation. Unfortunately, in practice, it appears that booking through a vve is not enough. One in three vve's is malfunctioning and almost every three vve's does not have a multi-annual maintenance plan. You will only buy an apartment in a building without a well functioning vve in which the necessary maintenance was not carried out. In an overstretched housing market, especially in the big cities, there is a chance that people will buy a property without going into how the vve works. My group therefore considers it justified to impose an obligation to reserve. After all, it is not an additional cost for the members, but a guarantee of a reservation that is necessary if you buy your own property. This legislative proposal is not an additional burden for those who have already taken care of things well, but it is a guarantee that those who have not done so are also well prepared for necessary maintenance. Having said that, we must prevent very small vves from being saddled with all kinds of extra hassle and extra rules as a result of this law. I know several people who live in small mini-vve's with two or three homes to each other who together form a vve. The residents know each other well, speak regularly and can trust each other. They do not need to make mandatory reservations or make agreements at all, and can arrange that very well among themselves. The clarifying question is: is it true that this law will only be enforced if one of the members of the vve calls the bell? In my example, that would mean that one of the three residents cannot make agreements with the other two residents and then says that he wants a multi-annual maintenance plan with a reservation. Is that interpretation correct? In fact, I can well imagine that such a small vve is agreed in good agreement that each person makes the reservation and the money is not stored in the vve's account. The law is intended to protect individuals from a majority of residents who do not wish to reserve. As far as I am concerned, if everyone agrees to do it in a different way, that must be respected. I look forward to the Minister's response to this. My final point concerns Mr Ronnes' amendment. On the one hand, I understand his amendment, because you want some kind of certainty that money is being reserved and that you do not fish behind the net if maintenance is to be carried out. On the other hand, I can imagine that, especially with owners of larger apartments, it is a lot of extra compulsory savings. They are, as it were, dead, while institutional investors and pension funds, for example, have all kinds of liquid resources in place to invest in the necessary maintenance. To make a long story short, I would therefore ask the Minister to respond to the amendment. Then we can make our choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u51	I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the political group of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u52	Mr President, thank you for the careful and correct interpretation of the abbreviation SGP. It indeed stands for the Reformed Party and not, as a student once answered a question about its meaning, for the Reformed Socialist Party. I didn't count that answer right, you know that. A democracy is alert and fearful of a one-sided dominance of the majority. Such a simple majority seems democratic, but can in the meantime bring about substantial interests of minorities. We want to avoid that as much as possible. This democratic rule is also important for owners' associations. In order to function, these associations sometimes have to take far-reaching decisions. And yeah, that's true, so you can't always keep everyone on the same page. That's not their job either. It is important, however, that as many owners as possible are given justice and that wishes are met. This is the focus of the SGP's commitment to this bill. The Committee welcomes the removal of uncertainties about loans. Borrowing by an association of owners may be useful, for example in the case of a strong investment in energy saving, but we still lack a bit of the rules of the game that ensure a careful process. The acquisition of a loan by an association can have a significant impact on the owners. The question is whether everyone is motivated to do so. A firm investment could be worth tens of thousands of euros. The SGP considers it only logical that such decisions should have broad support. On the basis of the bill, however, a simple majority is enough, half plus one. This has been discussed for a while in the interruption. I have now tabled an amendment to ensure that there should in principle be a two-thirds majority. In doing so, we have arranged a careful procedure for all associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u53	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u54	That's right. Why should we leave this protection entirely to model regulations? That is apart from the fact that a qualified majority is not found in all existing model regulations. I'd like to get a reaction from the government. The following point has been raised and raised by the Royal Notarial Professional Organization. He said about this bill that it would be undesirable for owners' associations to take out a loan without first considering whether the own fund is sufficient or whether there are opportunities to finance the plans through an additional contribution from the members. The SGP considers that to be a logical line, but does not see it in the proposal. Can the Minister confirm that taking out a loan cannot or must not be dealt with until there is a lack of own resources? This idea seems to be reflected in the explanatory memorandum, but we do not see it clearly enshrined in the legislative proposal. As far as we are concerned, it is important for Members to have clear criteria. There is still a lack of clarity about the role the notary would have in transferring the apartment. The explanatory memorandum suggests that the notary should check the size of the reserve fund, possibly even if the fund is adequate, but the notaries contradict this. The law only expressly contains provisions on the set-off of contributions to the association. Can the Minister clarify the expectations of the parties? Can the Minister confirm that at least the proposal is not intended to create obstacles to the supply of an apartment, with all the consequences it would have? Finally, the proposal stipulates that the exclusion of the possibility of borrowing should be regulated in the regulation. For substantive reasons, it could also be chosen to settle this issue in the statutes. These are obligations which concern the members of the association and not so much the rules governing apartments. Would the Minister please explain why, in his view, the choice to regulate it in the Rules of Procedure would make more sense? From the point of view of costs and procedures, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, it does not seem to make much difference. I await with tense attention the Minister's answer to the questions. We will then determine, partly on the basis of that, our voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u55	Thank you very much. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suspend to allow the Minister to prepare his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u56	I would ask Members to take their place and give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u57	Mr. Chairman. In the contributions of the members the question always came back in different ways: why does a law need and how much do you actually have to regulate? Mr De Graaf was the most explicit in that; he just came in. In itself, it is right to ask such a fundamental question. Because of the existence of the law of association and the wider law of legal persons, Dutch society has introduced an order in private relations, which has been said over time: that helps anyway. This history goes back hundreds of years, not only in the Netherlands. I have mentioned here once before the example that I was treasurer of the tennis association and that I liked the fact that it was laid down by law that I was not responsible as a person for the financial situation of that tennis association, but that under the law of association that that was the association. I had to look after the pennies and get permission from the Assembly of Members. In my opinion, our society works better, whether it is a tennis association or an association of owners, if we lay down some of these traffic rules with each other. The association of owners has already gone a little further than general association law in the past, because it has been established that the intertwinedness of the members is more profound there than with the tennis association. You can't just join and join. The risk of hidden defects is also a little higher than at the tennis association. There are also some kind of external effects between them. These external effects could even be extended to the outside world because a building or a lift, which can be used by all kinds of people, can become dangerous in the most extreme case. This does not mean that we should then arrange such an association in detail or that we should limit the possibility of vve-members to make mutual agreements endlessly. I will go into this further in the answers to the questions. The legislative proposal as it stands today is the result of a learning pathway. We agreed a number of years ago and laid down in the law that an association of owners should at least have a reserve fund. That was then evaluated, as we do with laws. We have carried out a thorough investigation into this too. A number of MPs referred to this. It has been found that the process of reservation and maintenance is going well in about half of the owners' associations, but not in the other half. That's a lot of them, isn't it? Then, of course, you will consult with all kinds of stakeholders: VvE Belang, as representative of the associations of owners, and the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation. The Vereniging Eigen Huis has also been consulted and the Vereniging van Nederlandse Gemeenten. We are going a long way towards this kind of legislation. Everyone inevitably has their own accents and tastes, but very widely all those ranks have said that this addition is sensible. That is sufficient reason for me, without wishing to intervene very deeply in the way in which such an association regulates its relations with each other, on the basis of the practical experience of recent years and a broad-based advice from all the organizations concerned to submit the bill to the Chamber as it stands. Against that background, I will answer the specific questions. As usual, I shall do so again in the order of the questioner. Mr De Vries began with the fundamental question of whether there is a need for more administrative enforcement. From the point of view I have just given that this is about the relationship between members of an association, I do not think that makes any sense. Why should administrative law maintain such matters as painting or glass washing? It is quite possible under the Housing Act to intervene when there is real danger, but that is regardless of whether the owner of the building is an association of owners, a private or a company. If there really is a danger criterion, then the government is the only one who can act. That makes sense. That's not what this law does. It's already taken care of. I would not think it appropriate to extend this law to include further administrative measures. Mr De Vries asks if I am going to amend the law when the Royal Notarial Brotherhood will have come up with a new model regulation. I'm not ruling that out, but I can't promise that either. That is what I need the new model regulations for. On that basis, I can then let the Chamber know if that requires legal amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u58	I have an informative question. I had asked when to expect that. It says in the documents that it would already be in 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u59	I must ask you to be patient. Today's papers say it'll be in the middle of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u60	I do not want to correct you, Minister, but just say the following for the sake of clarity. It used to be the Royal Notarial Brotherhood, but now it is the Royal Notarial Professional Organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u61	Ah, the brotherhood has disappeared from the notaries. They could also have made it "brotherhood and sisterhood." Anyway, the expert notaries have been consulted and will come forward with an opinion. Mr De Vries also asked how the tenants' access to a membership meeting of an association of owners could be arranged. At the moment, the landlord can allow tenants to participate in a general assembly of members, at least to be present there. However, the landlord is the owner. It is logical that it ultimately has the decision-making power. This also naturally entails the right to property. Fortunately, there are good examples of tenant participation in associations of owners. I've also sent a letter about that before. It's always gonna have to go this way. Mr De Vries has tabled an amendment requiring that energy saving measures with a payback period of 10 years or less always provide for an absolute majority of votes in a sitting. The result of this amendment is that an association of owners no longer has the freedom to agree that large investments require a different majority. I think that is a very serious restriction. At present, it is very common for owners' associations to agree on a larger compulsory majority than an absolute majority for large investments. Mr Bishop is also asking for this specifically for loans; I will come to that later. From the balancing framework that I have just outlined, namely that we are assuming the freedom of agreement between adult Dutch people unless there are very good reasons to frame it further, I really do not know why this amendment should prevent people from agreeing with each other that they need a greater majority for investment. That is the effect of this amendment. It's gonna be impossible. The amendment surprises me somewhat against the background of Mr De Vries' speech today, in which he expresses his concerns about the influence a large owner may have in a complex. That influence is even greater with this amendment. It also surprises me somewhat against the background of another debate which we have had extensively, on the subject of energy saving, and the urgent request of Mr De Vries and a majority of the Chamber, to which I have also contributed, to enable a guarantee of living expenses. If this amendment is adopted, and given the large numbers of people, the following situation will arise. It concerns two persons with an income of, say, €30,000 each, with access to the social rental sector. If one person with an income of €30,000 is asked by the landlord to agree to energy savings and an energy performance compensation, then there is a 70% consent requirement and there is that housing security. If that other person, with exactly the same income, lives in an apartment that is part of an association of owners, then there is not 70% possible, even if those members want to. This amendment will then require half plus one, without guaranteeing that this energy performance will also be delivered. I read in the amendment that it has to be recovered in ten years, but that was not enough for the energy performance compensation. There had to be a guarantee on top of that. You're really gonna have a crooked relationship between people on the same income. The combination of this fact and the first point, that this really is a major breach of the freedom of members of an association to make very reasonable agreements with each other, means that I have great difficulty with the amendment. I would therefore ask Mr De Vries to reconsider the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u62	The operative "great effort" is not very common.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u63	I think there will be more, but I see that Mr De Vries might make some sensible additions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u64	Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u65	I'll do my best. It is a question of whether the association of owners has the right to impose a greater condition in relation to the majority. The Minister has the task of increasing sustainability in the Netherlands, with some delay as far as the savings in the built environment are concerned. I don't understand that he doesn't get excited when we can give him a turn on that by putting in a gear for those vve's as well. But the point is that a majority can simply decide on investments that recoup themselves. So it's really something other than really big maintenance investments, because that means you've lost that money forever. You pay this money, and you get the revenu back from it in your monthly energy payments. Is that 100%? I admit that the Minister has a point there, but it really is a big difference whether you make profitable investments or final investments where you don't see your money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u66	Unfortunately, Mr De Vries does not go into my point that two people with an income of €30,000, i.e. below the rent surcharge limit, really get into a completely different legal position when investing in energy saving. It's totally different. Investment in energy saving can involve substantial amounts. That is, in fact, always a question of substantial sums. People with a small wallet therefore need a serious consideration. I also agree with Mr De Vries that there are very good reasons for this and that we welcome and encourage it, including for owners' associations, for example with cheap loans. However, it involves large amounts, and a lot of people who own an apartment in an association of owners have a small wallet. And then we say to those people who own: nothing is a 70% majority, even if you want to, and nothing is a guarantee of living expenses. The majority can then simply force it, even if that majority is, for example, the housing corporation that has the majority in the apartment block. That's gonna happen. And someone with that same income in a social housing unit we give all that extra protection. I really can't reconcile that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u67	The Minister brings in a lot, but the difference is that it can be decided by a simple majority. If a decision is taken by qualified majority, there are still people who have to deal with the consequences in the Minister's comparison. We cannot therefore exclude this in decisions taken by associations of owners. I'm weighing up that it's profitable investments that people get back through their energy bill. I think we should make demands. It must be demonstrated that the payback period of 10 years is guaranteed. But if that is the case, I think it is important that we boost energy saving. Then we have to accept that it has consequences for people with the income that the Minister mentions, but it also has consequences for a majority of 70%. There's really no difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u68	If we had now had a fervent debate here about the 70% that is common in housing corporations, with the contribution 'that should also be half plus one', I might not have supported it, but I would have recognized a consistent line. I do not recognize this consistent line at the moment, not even in terms of the guarantee of energy savings. The fundamental legal point is: why would you ban people from making a reasonable agreement among themselves that they want a heavier majority in the case of large investments? Why do we have to forbid people from doing that? That is what this amendment does. I have therefore already indicated to the President that I have great difficulty with the amendment. If it is maintained after the first deadline, I would ask the President to ask for an opinion from the Council of State on the amendment and to open the second deadline after the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u69	Of course, the President-in-Office's answer to that is: yes. We'll see how it goes first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u70	I shall now turn to the other questions put by Mr De Vries. He indicated that it is actually desirable that there should always be a multi-annual maintenance plan. He asked me once again to consider the possibility of making this compulsory. A multi-annual maintenance plan is wise, but here again the question arises when you as a government are going to use the knot of the obligation. Mr Koolmees addressed the many very small associations of owners where for years there has been a lot of fun working together and the maintenance is perhaps also done partly by himself. Why would you want to impose such an obligation? So I think that is a step too far. In fact, I'm inviting you to this bill, but I'm going a little less far. Then Mr De Vries asked about the position of a disabled resident who lives in an apartment that is part of an association of owners. He is dependent on the association of owners for taking accessibility measures. Different situations may arise. If the measures are taken on the basis of the Social Support Act, that law already explicitly indicates that an association of owners should participate in the adjustments. This can be a stair lift or a ramp, but also make the space suitable for a scooter or a wheelchair. Even if an association of owners would not agree to this, a municipality can enforce it. Measures not covered by the Social Support Act are subject to the Equal Treatment Act on the basis of Disability or Chronic Disease. It states that additional, generally simple, facilities must be provided for people to enable access. Think, for example, of the placement of scooters in common areas. In addition, Secretary of State Van Rijn announced that an action plan for the accessibility of buildings will be drawn up as part of the implementation of the UN Disability Convention. We'll come back to that before the summer. This means that accessibility is guaranteed along different routes. Mr De Vries also asked what is the position of a tenant who has a complaint about the quality of the property, where the landlord again depends on an association of owners. He asked what the tenant's position is if the association of owners does not want to invest. A tenant always has the right to claim compensation if the maintenance of the property is completely insufficient. He can go to the Rent Commission. He could also charge rent reduction there. The ratio of the tenant is therefore a ratio to the landlord. The tenant can therefore also ask for all these measures without the association of owners having already cooperated. The landlord can then appeal to the association of owners and indicate that he has become a landlord liable for damages and that he will recover that damage from the association of owners. He will of course prefer that the association of owners simply jointly finance the maintenance. So the route is a bit complicated, but closes. Finally, Mr De Vries asked whether this law also helps to address the problem of service flats. There are a number of issues surrounding service flats, not all of which can be addressed by this law. For example, social changes in a number of places reduce the demand for service flats. However, this law explicitly helps the service flats with an active association of owners when booking for maintenance and the ability to borrow. I'm coming to Mr. Ronnes. He asked whether the membership right of an association of owners has an influence on the World Trade Organisation value. The right to membership does not in itself affect this. When selling an apartment, the amount present in the reserve fund will generally be taken into account, because a well-stocked wallet will not be given to the new owner for free. The state of maintenance will of course affect the value of an apartment. That makes sense. Mr Ronnes asked whether the share in the reserve fund could be exempted from box 3, at least for the part that should be spared. If that were to happen, an owner of an apartment in an association of owners would be in a different position than an owner of an independent house. Also at an independent house a sensible owner will reserve for periodic maintenance. That's just in his savings account. If that amount exceeds the threshold, it will be taxed in box 3. You'd create legal inequality if you treated it differently with an association of owners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u71	Is that true? The difference between the two is that you can have the amount in the savings account at your own house. At the time the money is reserved at the association of owners, you cannot have it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u72	This self-determination at an independent home is, of course, only relative. You fool yourself if you have reserved €5,000 for the painting but used it to go on winter sports. Technically, you can have it yourself, but the bill comes anyway. So I really think that the money in such an account is treated fairly in both cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u73	Did I see some skis in the walkways? Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u74	I do not agree with the Minister's explanation. I think it should be interpreted in two ways: can money be made available or not? I do not think it is important for what purpose it is being used when it comes to taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u75	Again, in both cases there is money in a savings account for a specific purpose. It is practically possible to remove it if it is an independent property, but with this the owner does not fail because the maintenance does not disappear as a future obligation. Mr Ronnes has tabled an amendment to item No. 7. The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that the annual contribution to the reserve fund is actually paid into a bank account. That too is an intervention in the freedom of the members of an association of owners to make agreements. Mr Koolmees illustrated that there are a lot of small associations of owners of suit and three members, who have been working well for years and who, if the amendment were to be adopted, would suddenly be forced to deposit money into their accounts without having to consider it necessary for them to do so. The research that everyone has actually referred to here indicates that about half of the owners' associations are now functioning well. All of a sudden, you're gonna make tens of thousands of people an obligation while they're just doing their job right. That does raise the question: why would you want that? Then there is a specific group of owners, namely the housing corporations and professional investors, which generally have net liabilities on the balance sheet. It is of course very unattractive for them to have to park money in their savings account while they are in debt. So with this amendment, too, the President is already looking critically at me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u76	I don't think it makes much impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u77	We are here today with the aim of getting the reserve funds in order so that money is available if the necessary maintenance is to be done on the premises concerned. I mentioned earlier the example of bankruptcy, where the amount actually intended to be used as a reserve fund cannot be available. How does the Minister see it in such cases? In addition, I have the following question. If the voting ratio in a vve is such that a corporation or a large real estate owner who owns a certain part of a complex can actually push through any way of guaranteeing...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u78	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u79	As the President actually points out, I am suffering from an emerging flu. So I would appreciate it if we could suspend the sitting now and continue at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-34.u80	I'd already suspended. Just go away, Minister. You look a little pale; you have the flu. We are suspending this debate now and are going to discuss with you when we will continue to do so.
