ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u1	I welcome the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Secretary of State for Finance. Speaking time is four minutes per group. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is rolling out the red carpet for multinationals with our attractive tax environment and the "Dutch Foreign Investment Agency" is holding information meetings all over the world, together with embassies, to praise the Netherlands as a country to channel money flows virtually untaxed. On the eve of this debate, it became clear once again in a grotesque way how that is going. A tax advice that companies buy to pay as little tax as possible is paid by the Dutch government. As a result, an ordinary taxpayer suffers twice as much: once there is too little tax paid and once he pays too little. I think that's serious. Is it true that for the past five years it has occurred no less than eleven times? How much money was involved in this? Shall we agree that we don't do this anymore? Constructions to keep assets or profits out of sight of tax administrations or arrangements to use constructions to reduce profits are a shady process. Should the Dutch government be involved in such practices? Using constructions to pay as little tax as possible, legal avoidance, often differs only a hair thickness of tax evasion, and that is illegal. Who's to say that a Ukrainian oligarch or a gun manufacturer doesn't get his criminally obtained money through the Netherlands or let it go through the Netherlands, perhaps even with certainty in advance from the Tax Office? The gatekeeper function of the trust companies that have to check whether the money has been obtained properly and whether the person who gets the money does not work properly. Can the Secretary of State assure me that the gatekeeper function of the Tax Office does function? Does he guarantee that we have not given certainty to companies that work with criminally obtained money or who have favored people who are on international penalty lists? I am not necessarily opposed to companies knowing in advance where they stand when they operate in the Netherlands, have shops, run production and hire staff. But it will be something else when we offer these companies security to use constructions that do nothing but avoid tax. Take the CV/e.g. structure that enables US multinationals to pay no tax on their profits anywhere, not in the US and not in the Netherlands! Or take the construction where the profit is valued lower than it is. This undermines the basis on which tax is paid. Furthermore, there is the informal capital structure or route, whatever you want to call it. As a result, a large part of the profits remain untaxed. Pretending to make no or less profit is the withdrawal of money that society needs. Why does the Dutch government promote and accept these constructions? Can we agree today that these two types of security are no longer given in advance? The fact that US companies keep 500 billion euros of profits out of taxes through the Netherlands is possible because the anti-abuse clause of the tax treaty between the United States and the Netherlands has been repealed. We could read it today. The Netherlands has been deliberately made the favourite tax haven for American multinationals. I repeat once more: 500 billion in profits free of tax! We can't make it any better, but it's easier! Does the Secretary of State consider this to be appropriate? If not, is he prepared to restore that anti-abuse clause? Against dark practices that would not be dark, only one thing helps: to make the curtains open and public what is agreed. This is how you make it clear that we have nothing to hide. It has also been agreed in Europe to publish such rulings. It is time for the Dutch government to clarify what it is doing. That can be anonymized, because it's not about the company that makes the deal, it's about the deal the government makes. Belgium is already doing this and the Netherlands will have to follow, because I do not have the confidence that everything that is happening behind closed doors is in the hook right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan. No, I understand he has a question for Mrs Leijten first. An interruption by Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u4	It's a nice thing to do. Is Mrs Leijten or is she not in favour of guarantee being given in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u5	I find that a difficult question. I am not for certainty in advance when it comes to constructions that allow avoidance or reduce the basis for paying taxes. Just because you know in advance how much tax you have to pay on wages or real estate doesn't bother me. It's easy to publish, because we all know that. But to agree that one can use that or that construction to pay less or no tax, I have great problems with that. If we don't get these constructions back together, I won't have a problem with certainty in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u6	I note that we agree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u7	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u8	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Raan for his contribution on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. Imagine borrowing an amount, let's say a few million, after which you can deduct interest on that amount from your profit, but the interest itself doesn't have to pay to the borrower. That's really weird. We can agree on that. Does the Secretary of State share the view that this is actually a undesirable situation? This practice is very common in the Dutch tax system. It is one of the forms of tax avoidance that international companies are eager to use. It's called "informal capital provision" and the Tax Administration usually thinks it's okay. The Netherlands is part of the top five tax havens. And the amounts are high, as we know from the Court of Auditors since 2014. Since this morning, we even know that Economic Affairs is paying for tax lures. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State or the Minister to the message from the NRC. Tax avoidance affects all of us. The income that is being evaded by one person must be collected by the other. That puts the axe at the roots of our tax morale. Why does the corner shop have to pay the full price, while international chains manage to avoid tax? Why 35% to 40% for one and 1% for the other? Tax avoidance affects all of us, including the developing countries. Estimates made by SOMO and Tax Justice speak about the loss of 460 million euros per year. Tax avoidance in the way we are discussing here is therefore a significant contribution to inequality. The Secretary of State can't deny that. Or does he? I'd like a response. Tax avoidance on this scale raises the urgent question of whether this is the kind of country that the Netherlands wants to be. That happens to be exactly the same question that the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation asked this morning in the TTIP debate, in the context of income inequality. She also answered that question: The Netherlands does not want to be the country that contributes to further international income inequality. Does the Secretary of State share that view? I'd like a response. The Secretary of State is shifting part of his responsibility for the time being. After all, he wrote on 23 May: international tax avoidance is not attributable to the tax system of one country. No, you'll get the cuckoo. I agree with him 100%. Tax avoidance thrives in the existence of a chain with many links in several countries. I see the Secretary of State nodding; we agree. That does not, of course, exonerate him from doing anything about this. We can start with that right away, taking out links. As far as we are concerned, we should start with the informal provision of capital, which removes this strange loan structure from the chain from the beginning of my speech. Is the Secretary of State prepared to come up with a plan to end it? On the positive side, the Secretary of State wants to tackle tax avoidance in the European context by means of the "forgive me the jargon " multilateral instrument against Base Erosion and Profit Shifting." The connoisseur knows what I'm talking about. This instrument remains an empty shell if there are no concrete tax treaties underneath. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Is he prepared to bring the concrete tax treaties under that instrument? On the basis of the European context, the validity of a number of tax arrangements, the so-called "rulings," may also be under discussion. Is the Secretary of State satisfied that all rulings of the last five years can pass the European test? Finally, one problem is that the Secretary of State states that he does not know how big the problem of tax avoidance is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u10	Would you do that briefly? Because you've run out of time. One last sentence, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u11	Sure. It's about "I'm gonna go back for a while, but I'm gonna speed up the informal provision of capital. It is very difficult to obtain data on this, because the tax form is not equipped to do so. Is the Secretary of State prepared to initiate this adjustment of the tax form? And, and then I really close...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u12	The very last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u13	Thank you. Can the Secretary of State publish a periodic review of the total tax reductions received by the almost 1,900 companies with which the Ministry has made tax arrangements as long as this has not been achieved? The citizens have a right to know that so they don't have to wobble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. How deserving can you be? I'm not talking about you, Mr. Chairman. It's you, but I'm talking about the IRS. As Mrs Leijten said, we can't make it any more fun, but it's easier. That's a well-known slogan. However, the impression we have received over the past few weeks is that it is not only easier for some large companies, but also much more fun by the tax authorities. Then I'm not just talking about issuing rulings. It can still be understood that the tax treatment is guaranteed in advance. However, the question is whether the Netherlands itself has actively cooperated in facilitating tax avoidance. The documents that emerged a few weeks ago in response to a WOB request show that the policy is not just or not aimed at making a company pay a fair share in each country, but that the emphasis is on maintaining the favourable tax environment. Today the news also came out that in a number of cases the cabinet has even paid for the advice of multinationals who may want to settle here and want to know if it could all be more tax-friendly. Can these companies really not pay for these investigations themselves? In how many cases has a subsidy been granted in recent years or in any other way to companies in the context of tax advice and, more importantly, how does the cabinet justify this? First and foremost, this debate is about the ruling practice. Since the last debate we had on tax avoidance, the Secretary of State has provided us with a lot of information that gives us more insight into the action of the Tax Administration in particular in APA/ATR practice. If there has been a lot of shadowiness and fog around somewhere, with the smell of tax avoidance, it is because of the tax rotations. It is not for nothing that the research group set up by the Secretary of State himself has come to the recommendation that there should be greater transparency in the provision of information to the outside world and careful communication. I would like to add: do not forget the Chamber. The Secretary of State takes the recommendations of the research group to heart and sets up a committee of inquiry on this group, in which the Chamber can take note of the findings through the reports of the Tax Administration. I also agree with the recommendations of the research group and I am pleased that the Secretary of State supports them. The only way to remove fog around the tax rotations is transparency. When will the Secretary of State set up this committee? Are experts from outside the Tax Department and the Ministry of Finance part of this? And how independent can this committee operate? But more importantly, what are the reports going to be like? Our southern neighbors have set up an online ruling database. It is accessible to everyone, but in it the company names and other business sensitive information have been erased. I get that last part. How far does the Secretary of State intend to go in publishing the rulings? Does he just want to publish the conclusions, do he want to do it just like it happens in Belgium, or does he want to do something in between? How's he gonna shape that? I like to get clarity about that. I have a few more questions to ask about the update of the note on the apparitions of APA/ATR practice. The Minister writes in his letter dated 23 May.: "In cross-border situations, some appearances, in particular hybrid mismatches, CV/e.g. and informal capital situations, may be referred to as international tax avoidance. However, since the previous note, a large number of measures have been taken to remove the fiscal attractiveness of these appearances. The other forms of appearance are dominated by prior security on necessary or so-called fiscal circumstances. In all cases, the security shall not give prior results other than ex post security." I have a few questions about this passage. Is the tax attractiveness of all forms of tax avoidance actually eliminated and, if not, of which? Hybrid mismatches, CV/e.g. and informal capital are all constructions that still exist in the Netherlands. Does the Secretary of State consider that these appearances should be reduced further and, if so, how? And what exactly does the word "dominant" mean in this context? Pre-security that offers the same results as security afterwards is, of course, absolutely fine. That seems to me to be the essence of a ruling. But the word "dominant" seems to offer room for other less desirable appointments. How much room for manoeuvre does the word "dominant" offer? I like to get reassuring clarity from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. I think we all owe Mr Vleggeert a great deal of thanks. His WOB request turned out to be a very successful lever. After additional push and pull work from the Chamber, the Secretary of State finally gave a current insight into the tax rotation practice of the Netherlands. And with that, he also partly responds to the justified judgment of the research group that he himself set up, which finds that much more openness should have been exercised earlier. For far too long, the cabinet was on the trail that the location climate was leading, which led to even the rather absurd step to lure multinationals with tax advice paid out of tax money to avoid taxes. Surely I can assume that there is an immediate line from both the Secretary of State and the Minister? Furthermore, the line was: if the Chamber does not ask the right questions, there is no need to systematically give the Chamber access to the ruling practice. But could the Chamber ask the right questions without first having an insight into that practice? I also get this catch 22 feeling from the State Secretary's statement that the Netherlands should not take unilateral steps in tackling tax avoidance. Moreover, this rule does not seem to have been applied consistently. For example, the Netherlands' plea to postpone the ban on CV/e.g. constructions for four years was also a one-sided step, a step that put international coordination at risk? Can the Secretary of State, with this morning's research article by De Correspondent, explain exactly why the Netherlands actually made that plea for four years' delay? The State Secretary's own research group now finds that Advance Pricing Agreements on informal capital and CV/e.g. structures often look up the bottom of the business reward within the range. What exactly is going to happen here to change it? The Secretary of State even expressed regret at the fact that the Netherlands did not spontaneously inform services in other countries, while the tax authorities had found unbusiness structures. I quote: 'With today's insights, that judgment would have led to a different outcome and therefore to more exchange'. I would like this line to be actively pursued in the future. Is the Secretary of State prepared, for example, to promote the exchange of information between tax administrations also when it comes to information on rejected tax rotation requests? This can have an excellent preventive effect on overly aggressive tax planning. It is not for nothing that the research group emphasises this point. Why does the new letter not contain an action point? In addition to inter-service exchanges, would the Secretary of State also like to publish rejected tax rotation requests in a manner that respects the privacy of companies? It is a profit that information about the ruling practice is now exchanged, but what happens to that information? You don't seem to know anything about that. For example, is the informal capital rotation not necessarily related to a deliberately sought mismatch based on a non-business motive? And why was it said at the time in the description of this ruling that the effective tax rate for the Tax Administration is not a relevant circumstance? Can the Secretary of State give an example of a real 100% business use of an info cap construction? What would actually be the consequences if this type of ruling were to cease to be allowed? Furthermore, it is noted that the total number of rulings issued, the number of applications rejected and the number of applications withdrawn are all lower than in each of the last seven years. Is this the impact of the strengthened policy and will this downward trend continue? The Netherlands has itself received 585 standard forms on foreign rulings. What exactly did you do with that information? Has that been dealt with? The Secretary of State appears to be proud of the fact that the new European model is based on Dutch ruling practice. But doesn't that model write for that of all tax rotations that may be relevant to other companies, at least the conclusions should be published? It has already been recalled that Belgium has already set up an online trading database. Now the Secretary of State has described all common tax rotations in his memorandum on APA/ATR practice and revealed them in fictional example rotations. Will he now take the logical follow-up step and, after a necessary preparation time, proceed to a partial publication of issued tax rotations in a manner that respects the privacy of companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. This Secretary of State certainly does not have it easy this year, I say with a certain sense of understatement. My group has taken note with great interest of the much discussed note on APA/ATR practice, its actualisation, the comprehensive letter, the relevant policy decisions, the examples and the report of the research group in response to the requests made by Mr Leijten and Mr Omtzigt. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, the Secretary of State has thereby generously complied with the requests for additional information within the space he has provided in this context. There is also a limit in taxation to what you can all share and release with good decency. In cross-border situations, hybrid mismatches, CV/e.g. structures and informal capital situations are mainly referred to as tax avoidance. However, since the publication of the previous note in 2015, which we received only this year, a large number of measures have been taken to remove the fiscal attractiveness of these appearances, says the Secretary of State. The other appearances are dominated by pre-security. The Secretary of State is quite certain about this: security in advance gives no other outcome than security afterwards. The latter, in particular, is essential for my group. For us, it is the test, the most important critical factor in determining our position on the practice of tax agreements with multinationals. As far as we are concerned, the biggest risk of the ruling practice is the fact that it can undermine pure tax morality in the eyes of many citizens and small entrepreneurs. That is our tip to the Secretary of State: the better he succeeds in proving that security does not matter at the bottom of the line, the greater the support for a ruling practice, as it turns out. It is clear that the Netherlands has always exploited its position optimally. In times that we would now characterize as a bit of the Wild West, the Netherlands was one of the most active cowboys. But that's where the good news begins, because the world is really changing. The free trade balance with regard to tax rotations is becoming less and less non-binding. Our group fully supports the enforceable international agreements such as anti-abuse legislation and country-by-country reporting based on automatic data exchange. We also support the development of a multilateral instrument, an MLI, to effectively adapt tax treaties to new OECD standards. These are the big steps, the game changers, which should ultimately lead to more tax transparency, so that multinational companies pay their fair share of taxes. The Secretary of State also states this in his letter of 23 May. International tax avoidance is not attributable to the tax system of one country, therefore not specifically to the Dutch laws and regulations. It certainly doesn't deserve a beauty prize that the Netherlands and other countries have last held on to the non- or limited sharing of information. It is also not a testament to the leading role that some people in this house might have expected. Should we consider this as the last convulsions of that cowboy from the Wild West, I ask the Secretary of State. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, we will take further steps in tackling tax avoidance by multinationals. It is too easy to make any progress dependent on the international context. However, the question we must ask ourselves is: what is the best route? The practice of the past few decades shows that it is mainly the measures in a broad international context, the OECD, which are really making progress, whether taken over or not, or even strengthened by efforts at European level. But we see that much can still be done at national level to make corporate tax more transparent and less sensitive to evasion and evasion. In addition, we are very pleased with the strong vision of the new Director-General for Tax Administration Jaap Uijlenbroek. According to him, the monitoring system whereby the Tax Administration controls companies on the basis of trust should be put at risk. Although the latter does not directly relate to the ruling practice, it does breathe the right atmosphere: governance matters. Mr Uijlenbroek seems to feel the spirit of time much better than others before. This gives us the conviction that, although we are far from being where we want to be on this dossier, it is also undeniable that we are moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. The tax moral in the Netherlands must remain good. I have been able to put that on behalf of the PVV before. The tax moral is the basis of the State, the society that we Dutch people have built. The PVV also believes that all companies should simply pay taxes, especially multinationals. Therefore, from the outset, the PVV supports the OECD's initiative to develop a global approach to countering tax avoidance. After all, tax avoidance, difficult tax constructions and money-sliding are putting tax morals on edge. And what is not right at all is that the Dutch State pays the tax advice for multinationals. That should stop immediately anyway. However, the PVV stresses that tackling tax avoidance must be done internationally and not unilaterally. The PVV also considers it important that companies continue to establish themselves in the Netherlands. Companies provide jobs and prosperity. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We kunnen niets anders dan constateren dat er ruim 100.000 banen te danken zijn aan de gemaakte afspraken met bedrijven.]] Does the Secretary of State agree with the PVV that those rulings at least created 100,000 jobs in the Netherlands? The Netherlands has traditionally been a trading country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u18	I hope that Mr Mulder's PVV colleague, Mr Van Dijck, will also make this noise heard in the upcoming euro groups. He always opposes any European and international interference in taxation. He always says: that's what the Dutch should be about; no one should interfere. However, I hear this representative of the PVV now saying that it is only possible to do so if we work together internationally. I would say: welcome to the club, these are wise words; speak again with Mr Van Dijck. I look forward to the forthcoming debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u19	Well, I guess I guess I didn't explain it right. I take the opportunity to do that again. No, nothing via Europe, nothing through Brussels, but in the OECD; we have always said that. Mr Van Dijck has never said anything else either. We simply do not want Europe to interfere with our taxation. That's what we do all by ourselves. But it is not a problem for us if, at OECD level, we ensure that all countries in the world have the same principles. However, we want to avoid being the best boy in the classroom and ensuring that a company disappears here and then shows up in Ireland or Italy; we do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u20	I understand that the PVV spokesperson cannot get over his heart to say that we need to work together in Europe, given the views of the PVV, but it is not very consistent. All European countries are members of the OECD. I can't imagine the PVV of all kinds of countries Russia, China, Brazil, what's in the OECD? It does not want to influence our tax policy, but it believes that European countries have nothing to do with it. After all, you make agreements in the OECD, which you then adhere to. Then you won't be alone anymore. That is wise, because there is no other way with international taxes. It is not consistent when you say that European countries have nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u21	The fact that European countries are also in the OECD does not mean that we are suddenly enthusiastic about Brussels, but my colleague knows that. You can say whatever you want from the PVV, but she has a very strong landline and she has never deviated from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u22	Like Mr Nijboer, therefore, I had a glimmer of hope. But I think I understand it very well now: Mr Mulder is against international cooperation in Europe, which is a disgrace, because we are talking about it ourselves, but when we do it with a Chilean and a Korean at the table, he says: it is called the OECD and I am in favour of it. I find it inimitable. In that case, Mr Mulder is already halfway on the road to finally understanding the fact that we can do it together in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr Van Weyenberg asks the same question and uses the same wrong point as Mr Nijboer. The answer is: no, we do not want Europe to decide what we do with our tax legislation, our freedom and our sovereignty. I think it's funny. We have heard Mr Juncker say last week that he wants to abolish the Dutch veto or the veto of countries at all. Is it true that my colleague thinks that's the best thing? Does he want to ensure that we also lose that sovereignty completely?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u24	It is a classic debate trick by the PVV to simply ask the questioner if she does not want to answer a question. I therefore say to Mr Mulder: welcome to this house; you fit into a tradition. However, let us go back to the core. Mr Mulder says that we are sovereign and that Europe cannot decide on our taxes, but if we do it in the OECD context, he wants to give it up. I cannot help but notice that Mr Mulder is slightly blinded by a kind of phobia for Europe saying: if there is a Korean and a Chilean, I think it is okay. I find this really inimitable, but I do not have the illusion that I can change Mr Mulder's mind today or that I can lead him to express a thought that he might share.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u25	I see it as a gain that I now suddenly get the compliment that I only got in line with the PVV ten years ago. I therefore note that I was able to convince my colleague in this short debate that his first assumption was not correct, and that is profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u26	It is also a gain that Mr Mulder says that we can say what we want from the PVV. I have two questions. Does Mr Mulder agree with me that, given that we are in the top five of the tax avoidance havens, the chance that we are suddenly the best boy in the classroom is not so great if we take one concrete measure? Can we get the second question straight away?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u28	Then there is the second question. Tax avoidance is not the result of one tax system, but of multiple or one chain. That's exactly why you can avoid this one. Does Mr Mulder agree with us that you could take out a few links, so not everything? Then perhaps you'd be the nicest boy in the class, and Mr. Mulder doesn't want to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'll come back to that second question, because I didn't quite get it, but that must be me. I will start with the first question: about the top five tax havens. This Chamber has established by majority that the Netherlands is not a tax haven. It may be that someone is making a vague list somewhere and it is nice that Mr Van Raan calls it, but it is actually not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u30	I was not talking about a tax haven, but about a tax evasion paradise, and that is a statement made by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u31	A tax avoidance paradise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr Van Raan may put his question for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u34	It's nice, it's whispered in my ear, that the PVV moves of a fake parliament adopt as truth anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u35	Now we're going really deep. Let me say again that I heard "tax paradise." The Chamber has ruled on this, in all its wisdom, that we are not and that you should not talk about it either. A vague list, once again, that's no use to us. We stick to the facts as in this beautiful house, which is sometimes a fake parliament, is agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u36	Another point. Indeed, we know the PVV from the aversion to Brussels and the obsession with international cooperation. Does Mr Mulder think that we should have international agreements on a minimum rate for companies? I also know the PVV as an organization that still stands up for the common man.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u37	The latter is true, that is a good statement, and yes, we want to work together internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u38	In Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u39	Well, no, and not internationally in the Benelux either. We want to cooperate internationally with the OECD. That is also what we have done during the entire discussion about the BEPS. There's no change of line. We do not want a worldwide agreed minimum rate. Nor do we want the same tax rates for ordinary citizens. The Netherlands is a sovereign country and must remain so. It's up to us to decide how to deal with things like that. That's a perfectly normal thing to do. I do not want Peru or any other beautiful country, such as Korea, to decide on that. It's up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u40	How do we prevent a race to the bottom, which many specialists and experts warn about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u41	Each country can decide for itself what it does to ensure that businesses settle. The Netherlands does this by having a highly skilled population and by having good agreements and good infrastructure. In addition, we can offer certain tax advantages to people and businesses. There's nothing wrong with that. I think that's perfectly normal. The only thing you have to avoid is that there are companies that don't pay taxes at all. That's what we're talking about here tonight. By the way, I believe that this has already been largely regulated by the Chamber in its previous composition. After all, you have all agreed that the biggest problems will be solved by 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u42	I'm still trying to get back to the previous point and understand your logic. You say you're in favour of agreements in the OECD. These were made in the framework of the BEPS process. In Europe, these agreements were subsequently implemented in ATAD 1 and ATAD 2. We will then implement these directives nationally. If I understand you correctly, you want only what is agreed at OECD level to be implemented nationally, in the Netherlands, in legislation. You don't support ATAD-1 and ATAD-2. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? Is the PVV not prepared to support it because it contains a European, Brussels component? Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u43	Would you like to speak through the chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u44	Absolutely correct, Mr. Chairman. My colleague is right about that. We do not understand any interference from Brussels. Moreover, the examples mentioned by Mr Van der Lee were agreed at European level, but countries were then allowed to decide whether or not to introduce certain parts. What we want to avoid is that we are the best little boy in the classroom and we shoot ourselves in the foot, something we often do in the Netherlands, while other countries have advantages. You have to prevent companies from avoiding tax, but you have to do it in such a way that a company can't avoid tax in another country afterwards. That seems to me to be a normal healthy reasoning. If we ban it here, it shouldn't be possible anywhere else. I can't explain it any more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u45	I understand that you will vote against any implementation of ATAD 1 or ATAD 2 by the Netherlands. Does the PVV itself come up with own-initiative legislation showing how the PVV interprets the agreements of the Netherlands in the OECD and how it wants to see them introduced in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u46	It is not up to the PVV to interpret it. We fully agree with that. I don't know why I have to repeat that for the umpteenth time. If it is ensured at OECD level that companies will no longer be able to avoid tax, then we are on your side, Mr Van der Lee. We want to ensure that companies from the Netherlands do not disappear unilaterally and reappear a few kilometers away, because then we still have nothing. Let me give you a good example. The nuclear waste we have here, we are not going to leave it with the neighbours, are we? I don't think that's a solution. That's what you have to do internationally. This great example probably leads to the queues of the interrupting microphones getting a bit longer again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u47	The reasoning "we can do anything in another country" is a bit crazy. That is in fact Mr Mulder's reasoning: if it is allowed elsewhere, we can do it too. Of course, this is something else. The Netherlands is not for nothing the country in which the most profits of American multinationals are knocking down. That is simply because the'spax at sea' structure is allowed, and that is because the anti-abuse clause in the Tax Convention has been repealed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u48	By who?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u49	That was done by a former Secretary of State for Finance of the CDA house. We have all been able to read that today. But we don't live then, we live now. Mr Mulder said that the PVV is not in favour of no tax being paid at all. Does he agree with the SP that we should simply stop eliminating the anti-abuse clause?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u50	Yeah, that's gotta stop. I would like to see Mrs Leijten improve on this, but I believe that there has been a wide-ranging discussion in this House and a majority decision has been taken to allow this to take place on 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u51	Then we are waiting for a European directive. On the contrary, we can take sovereignty into our own hands by not undoing that article of our tax treaty with the United States. Then we can settle it sooner and we do not have to wait for European rules. It should be in line with the PVV that such a thing does not have to come from Brussels, but that we can fix it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u52	That's nice. In fact, I thought our proposal was more in line with the SP. We are now ensuring that the mess we make there ends up with the others. Let us work together to ensure that something that we think is wrong is not possible abroad either. That seems to me to be the best solution. It also seems much more in the interest of the SP and the SP supporters, instead of reversing the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u53	A brief final remark, Mrs Leijten, because you have already interrupted twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u54	It can be done abroad, because this is a tax treaty between the Netherlands and the United States. Since one part of it has not entered into force, this can now be done. So let us now say to these multinationals: best multinational, okay, you pay taxes in the United States or in the Netherlands, very well, but you have to choose where to pay taxes. Then we do exactly what the PVV wants: then we take it into our own hands and we do not wait for Brussels. I think it's a little vague that the PVV is rejecting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u55	That's not vagueness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u56	I propose that we now allow Mr Mulder to continue his speech. I won't allow any more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u57	The Netherlands has traditionally been a trading country; a trading country with a strong international orientation. The explanation for this lies, of course, in the fact that the Netherlands belongs to the smaller countries in terms of area and population. We do not have a large national market. Trade is therefore also a necessity for us. That is why our fiscal sovereignty is extremely important. In conclusion, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: does he agree with the PVV that our fiscal sovereignty should not be affected by Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u58	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, many political parties suffer from persistent obsessions: for newcomers, for minorities. They would also be the cause of all our problems. For fear of globalisation and international cooperation and in search of votes, these parties want to keep everything else small and build a wall around our country like a Trump of the Low Countries to keep everyone, refugees, migrants, descendants and foreign workers out. Everyone who comes from outside and is different from what these parties see as the ideal Dutchman, is a profiteer. Among other things, this is bad for the economy. While these parties are working so hard to make the borders tight for people from outside, they are opening up the borders to the real profiteers: the big companies and multinationals. While the hardworking Dutchman has to pay a large part of his income, almost 40%, to the Tax Administration, large companies and multinationals have a tax burden of only 20%. Over the past 25 years, on average, companies in the G20 have only started to pay less tax. So it is not the Ahmeds and the Khadijas who abuse our facilities, but the Apples and the Goldman Sachses. So it is not the refugees who benefit from our economy, but Shell and Starbucks, who fortunately received a fine afterwards. That is why it is time for a different approach. The Netherlands should not be a tax haven, but a justice paradise. It is time for multinationals and large companies finally to pay their share of the tax. It is time we stopped blaming refugees, newcomers and minorities for economic problems. It's time for action! DENK therefore requests the following measures from the government. Be transparent about the shady tax arrangements. Large multinationals use our tax system to avoid taxes for millions of euros. Our Tax Administration helps these companies by explaining to them in advance how much money they can avoid in the Netherlands. Providing security in advance is called in policy language, a language that no one understands, but which thrives in The Hague. In ordinary Dutch this means that tax inspectors are used by companies as tax advisors. DENK believes that these shady tax arrangements should be monitored much better. That that control is necessary shows the ruling of 27,5 million Starbucks. The Netherlands has been called to order. We welcome the steps the government is taking in the area of transparency, but we want more action. Firstly, we ask the government to make all rulings public, as agreed in the EU Code of Conduct Group. I will table a motion for that. Secondly, better criteria for the blacklist. The EU makes a blacklist of tax havens, but the criteria for that list are not complete at all. The fact that a country such as Bermuda imposes 0% corporate tax is not mentioned on that list. Last week we heard that European countries do not appear on the list at all, whereas some countries do. On the list of largest tax havens Bermuda is number one, number two is the Cayman Islands and number three is the Netherlands. We therefore call on the government to make every effort to complete the blacklist and to be honest about it. We ask the government to abolish the candy arrangements for large companies. Large companies are all too keen to take advantage of this; this concerns the Innovation Box and the participation exemption. Today it appeared that the Dutch government even pays the fiscalists of foreign companies who give advice on how these companies can use it. We ask the government to stop doing that. We also ask the government to limit candy schemes such as the Innovation Box and the participation exemption. Finally, no reduction in corporate tax. Companies need to pay more, not less. We therefore find tax cuts unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the cabinet for the comprehensive note that provides insight into the current APA/ATR practice, i.e. ruling practice. It is an extremely clear and insightful note, which contains a lot of work and provides a lot of insights. I'm happy about that, even though it took a lot of work to get her to land here. I'd have liked it to be a little more proactive. I have some questions about the documents. On 14 April we received a letter from the cabinet, in which the tone seems to have changed somewhat. It always said in letters that the Netherlands wants to take the international lead in the fight against tax avoidance, but now it says: The Netherlands wants to actively participate in initiatives by the OECD and the EU. I have learned that in this dossier every word matters, so my question is: is there a policy change? I suppose the Netherlands is still ahead of us. In the same context, I was somewhat struck by the message that Mr Juncker is apparently about to hit the Netherlands because the Netherlands would be dragging its feet in the exchange of rulings. I would have liked to ask what is going on with this today, so I am doing so, but is it true that we will be attacked? If so, what does that look like on the fingers? What are the consequences? I see Mrs Leijten at the interrupting microphone. I have the impression that she wants an invitation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u60	No, I am not going to touch Mr Van Weyenberg, but perhaps we can give each other a hand. It concerns the exchange of rulings, but it has also been decided that rulings are published; summaries, completely anonymised. A database has already been set up in Belgium, which uses it. I have made the proposal, and others have done the same, because the Netherlands is following it. Would D66 be for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u61	I am still looking into what we have now agreed on at international level. It was mainly about the exchange of rulings between Member States and what it provides us with additional information. That's the touchstone for me: does it make any difference? I shall be making another proposal later on, I would ask for a little bit of patience, for greater transparency. I will look at Mrs Leijten's proposal and I am curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State. I am never a fan of putting a lot of work into something that actually gives us very little information, and I am sure Mrs Leijten will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u62	At the moment that Belgium is already doing this and is therefore just transparent, a word that always makes D66 smile very much...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u63	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u64	I like "publicity" more than "transparency," but I like to use the word "transparency" when I invite you. They have experience with it. Things that the Tax Administration or you and I may not think are relevant are perhaps considered relevant by journalists, professors or others. They'll be able to compare. I think it would be best if we had such a database similar to that in Belgium, because then you could really compare countries. Anyway, I'd like to hear your proposal. If we are going to open curtains, Mrs Schouten also talked about shadowiness and dark things, then we are already a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u65	Sure, I'm also curious about what the Secretary of State says about that. I think we share the objective, but I would like to continue to look at every instrument to see whether it will deliver what we expect from it. As far as I'm concerned, that's the touchstone. And that there should be no business-sensitive information, at least we find each other about that. This morning we could read in NRC Next that some companies that were considering coming to the Netherlands were allowed to hire tax advisors at the expense of the Dutch government. I have to say, I did have an eyebrow up when I read that message. Nor has the letter from the Minister we received quickly, for which I am grateful, not yet completely removed that concern. I find it quite a lot to hire fiscalists and then have the Dutch government pay the bill. Isn't this going very far? I'm in favour of a red carpet for companies that are going to create jobs here, but isn't this bishop a little too red? Is this really necessary? I am curious, however, on the basis of which policy decision or scheme it is even lawful to pay some of the accounts of tax consultancy firms for companies. I'd like to hear the basis of those payments. Which brings me to the info-capping scheme. Much has already been said about it and questions have already been asked by colleagues. I will not repeat them all in the light of time either. Can the Secretary of State explain whether he thinks there is a future for that info cap? Is that thing future-proof or should that structure be better adapted? I do say: a ruling is a translation of "fine" if it is "existing" policy. I am therefore concerned here with the underlying policy. The next point is the internal research group. I'm glad. It was partly a response to a request from myself that we should not allow the Court of Auditors to carry out more frequent investigations into the rule-making practices, because one of the problems is the lack of transparency, which quickly makes things gloomy, seems to be under-controllable and thus quickly becomes a bad thing. The cabinet has made a different choice. I will table a motion in the second term to at least ask for another Court of Auditors inquiry to be carried out in 2019. The General Court of Auditors is an independent institution, and that is something that I think is really different from the research group that is here today. With all due respect and appreciation for the work of the research group, I still think it wise to ask another Court of Auditors inquiry in 2019, five years after the first investigation. I come in second term with a motion that I would like to put to the Chamber. I would like to join Mrs Schouten's questions on the composition of the research group. Why hasn't one or two professors been chosen to replace them, to name but one? If I understand correctly, they're all employees of the Treasury. I trust that these people will do their job properly, that is not my point at all, and that was not Mrs Schouten's point either, but this is about taking away the image that things are not right. The inclusion of people who do not work in the Ministry contributes to this. Once again, I do not want to detract from the fact that the people of finance will do their job well. I have another question about the results of the research group. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that there are currently no non-legislative options available? That was a point of the research group. Can he therefore guarantee that there will be no non-legal possibility in any way? The investigation states that there are sometimes non-statutory existing restrictions. That raises the question of whether something was exchanged for that. Finally, I will table a motion in the second term, because I would also like to have some kind of update on the state of the ruling policy every year. But that motion will follow later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u66	Mr. Chairman. If you look at the analyses of the twelve categories of tax rotations that the Netherlands issues, the Advance Pricing Agreements/Advance Tax Rulings, you can make it very complicated and very complex. Then you can see if the hybrid structures are good. But according to the PvdA Group, this is what it comes down to: the tax administration has as its primary objective tax collection. Tax must be levied. That's not funny, but everyone has to pay taxes, because we have to finance all public services together. This is happening actively in the case of citizens. As far as the PvdA is concerned, more random checks may be carried out at both companies and people. I am glad that the new Director-General of the Tax Administration also hints at that. So it happens actively with citizens, but if you look at companies, you can't escape the fact that for the last 20 to 25 years at least, the business environment has gone ahead of ordinary tax collection, just paying your taxes properly. Also from the Empire was actively involved in this. The Chamber has not always been actively informed about this. Other European countries were not always informed when agreements had been made. That's a bad thing. In recent years, the cabinet has taken steps to reverse it, to lead the way, and the other colleagues have asked for this and to put an end to it. But it's pretty deep.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u67	That's a good argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u69	You're welcome. I can be very complimentary. That's a bit of fun from this side. How can these practices have arisen in the years when the PvdA was in government, even in the years when, for example, Wouter Bos was in charge? Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u70	You are now making a very strange summary of the course of history. I wonder if you have read the article that has appeared today, which states how, for example, Secretary of State Wijn deliberately allowed American companies in the Netherlands to benefit from the Dutch tax environment. The American tax administration was thereby disadvantaged, while American companies were favoured. Secretary of State Bos was against that in those days. He stopped that, too. So you are giving an incorrect picture of these matters. In that respect, Bos was on the right side. However, I would point out that the Netherlands, like Luxembourg and other countries, has participated in the global tax competition for 20 to 25 years. That's a bad thing. People are going to suffer from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u71	We could discuss the story about Mr Bos, but at least he didn't stop it while he was there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u72	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u73	Let's take another minister as an example. Two years ago, a motion was passed in this house to end the rulings earlier. That's why the minister lay down. Then how do you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u74	We have had this debate many times here. The PvdA has supported all these motions. It was clear that the PvdA wanted to end the CV/e.g. construction as soon as possible and that the VVD had great difficulty with that. A kind of intermediate position has been taken and eventually the cabinet has implemented the wish of the majority of the Chamber and thus also the wish of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u75	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u76	No, Mr Mulder, you've already interrupted twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u77	It was persistent, though. I thought we had a whole debate for two years on the road shows that took place at Dutch embassies. Mr Groot was a spokesperson at the time. I still see a lot of tax spokesmen from that time. In those road shows the location climate of the Netherlands was highly recommended, but they went very far. I've been through all these sheets. We said, "That's not normal, is it?" At the time, the Chamber also said, "Stop it." The Secretary of State has promised: we are not going to do this anymore; we are sticking to the basic principles. But if you read the paper today, you can see that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is providing subsidies for tax advice through one of the organizations that is implementing it for the Ministry. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Surely it cannot be the intention for the Dutch government to subsidise foreign companies when it comes to how they can pay as little tax as possible in the Netherlands? We do not need to advise on the Vpb rate; that is well known. It's really about application and constructions, because otherwise you don't need a tax advisor. I really don't like that. Today we received an explanation from the cabinet about how it could have come to this. But the cabinet didn't say, "We're quitting immediately." We immediately stopped doing it that way at those embassies, but we continue to do so in exceptional cases. The PvdA Group does not agree with that. We believe that this should be stopped immediately. This no longer fits in with the new approach expected by the Court: leading Europe and leading the world in order to put an end to tax avoidance. I'm asking the Cabinet to respond to that request. I'll close with a few questions. I can ask very technical questions, but a four-minute speaking time is far too short. In essence, I ask the Secretary of State whether the rulings no longer facilitate tax avoidance and whether the rulings no longer result in developing countries being disadvantaged in their tax revenues. I ask whether the clarity of the Dutch tax administration on the rulings does not lead to less tax revenue for the Dutch Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr. Chairman. It shouldn't get weirder. While the Chamber has many debates with the Secretary of State on tax avoidance, while even a Chamber Committee investigates the many different tax structures that exist, while expert meetings are held by the Chamber, including with people from the Tax Administration, somewhere on the Secretary of State's desk for two years there has been a note containing the ten most common tax arrangements. That is an important document for the Chamber. The CDA Group believes it is very important that tax avoidance is addressed in a targeted way: not all kinds of vague measures, which we go right through, but that we focus on what we want and what we do not want. Then it is so useful to know which constructions are used, especially if it turns out that the Secretary of State personally approved those constructions. The Secretary of State decided not to send that note to the Chamber. So we are once again waiting for journalists and professors who "wobble up" such a note because they found out its existence. So my first question to the Secretary of State is whether it was an act. We have had many debates on tax avoidance, but the most relevant information, this document, was not sent to the Chamber. Why didn't that happen? Wasn't that part of the active disclosure obligation? What do we read in the recently secret note? That the Dutch Tax Administration sees that companies are not acting in business. We are talking about structures with informal capital. The Netherlands does not actively inform the other tax authorities. In the updated version of the note, the Secretary of State writes that information on info folder transactions will be exchanged from 2015. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly when this information will be exchanged? Does this happen on the basis of changed Dutch policies or on the basis of international agreements? How is the information on information folder transactions exchanged? How many infokaprulings have been issued and how many of these rulings have the Netherlands exchanged with other countries? That gives us a good idea of what's going on. We, too, had hoped that there would have been a small update on this exchange to the Chamber. Perhaps the government can also tell us how other European countries deal with non-business transactions. Are there more countries that rely on a business price in the case of non-business transactions? I am asking this because I am beginning to seriously doubt whether correcting it to a business price has the desired effect. If a shareholder acts in a non-business manner with his e.g., it is logical that he does so from a shareholder's perspective. Then a correction is understandable, but we should not want tax advisers to give the advice to apply a non-business price, so that you do not owe taxes anywhere. Can the Secretary of State indicate the advantages and disadvantages of starting from the real situation, rather than from the business but paper reality? In the note, in both the old and the new version, there are about ten constructions. These are not all tax avoidance structures. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he feels about each of these constructions? I would ask that, in particular, for those structures which are not challenged by measures in the Tax Avoidance Directive, the ATTAP. Does it make sense, for example, that a permanent establishment falls under the entire treaty network of the main house? We couldn't help noticing that. Finally. You can get a ruling in the Netherlands, even if you are on a penalty list. Mrs Leijten of the SP pointed that out as well. Then you can't come to the Netherlands for the mandatory meeting, because you can't go to the country! Can the Secretary of State ensure that there is no further ruling within one month that they are no longer issued and that they are withdrawn if they are already there for companies or persons on the penalty list? When you talk about categories of people who have to get in or out, it seems to me at least a category that needs to get out. Finally. Big companies are now being paid for tax advice. Can the Minister for Economic Affairs indicate where SMEs can declare their tax advisor and where people can get back the call costs of the tax phone, where they sometimes stand on hold for a very long time? If that is not possible, what exactly is the reason why, according to the principle of capacity, international multinationals would have a little more trouble with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u79	With your permission, Mr President, I would like to go back to the issue of CV/e.g. structures and in particular the reconstruction published by the daily De Correspondent this morning. In it, it is in a penetrating way reconstructed how they have been created. Mr Omtzigt must have read that too. What's his verdict on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u80	I tried to reconstruct that between the meetings. I would like to have a cabinet response to that, including that reconstruction. I want to know exactly what happened, what's right and what's wrong. It is only after that that I want us to give an opinion on this. I would also like some additional information on a number of points. First of all, I'd like to get some additional information about something I saw when I went through the history of law. I briefly dived into the legal history and I saw that GroenLinks did not even participate in the debate in the First Chamber, when she was present. I'm saying that to give you an idea of how different the spirit of time was back then. Furthermore, I would like to know the substance of the matter before we discuss it. After that, I would like to bring it up with all the love for a separate debate. That is precisely why I asked for a separate discussion on the point of Minister Kamp, which is a much simpler point. But that it deserves attention: absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u81	I'm very happy about that. I hadn't mentioned a party name myself, but I understand your reaction. I also think it is important to discuss this in greater detail at another time, after the reaction of the cabinet. From what you have said, I am a little distracted by the fact that you have been shocked. For you, too, these were quite new facts, if they're correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u82	I just want to get the facts straight and then discuss it. If you would like my opinion, I would like to tell the President that I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the motion under Rule 25087, No. 21 by Mr Harbers and Mr Omtzigt. That motion states that it must be clear at all times and in every tax treaty that the bodies in one country and the other are to be assessed in the same way. That motion was tabled in 2011 and shows that we are not in favour of one country seeing a body as transparent and the other as non-transparent. If it is, you can use it for avoidance. If that is an answer to what we consider desirable or not, it has been the position for at least six years. In any case, it has been our position since I became a spokesperson here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u83	A very brief concluding remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u84	Then you will also want to know from the cabinet whether that motion was actually carried out or whether the practice was different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u85	That's a very interesting question. The motion tabled by Mr Harbers and myself calls for this to be dealt with in new tax treaties. I would indeed like to know from the cabinet that it may also be written or that since then all new treaties have been settled. I would also like to receive a list of the old treaties in which there is another mismatch. When I look at Mr Van der Lee, that seems to me to be a relevant question to prevent you from having a transparent intransparent body.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u86	This shows just how important it is that the Chamber gets good information and that it should not come out via a WOB request, because as a Member of Parliament you can be on top of hybrid mismatches, which simply exist in an important tax treaty, when we did not know enough. But I have another question to ask Mr Omtzigt about informal capital. It says in the Secretary of State's letter that information is now being exchanged. We do not know whether these are data that can be read properly by other tax authorities. It wasn't so much that the Dutch government didn't exchange, but she had veiled the info cap, which didn't make it very visible what was happening. So does Mr Omtzigt now have any clarity as to whether the Secretary of State has removed that veil, so that other tax authorities can see how much less profit is taxed in the Netherlands? Or do we just see that data is being sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u87	I think this is a very relevant question from Mrs Leijten. I asked the question a little more simplistic. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked a question about this. The question is indeed how many infokaprullings have been exchanged, because before 1 January all rulings should have been exchanged, not only the infokaprullings, but also this one. So I want to know how they exchanged. Mrs Leijten has a point to make when she says that in that note it said that it must be somewhat veiled and that, if they need to be exchanged, it must also be clear to the other tax authorities that that info folder is underneath. I ask the Secretary of State to answer that question, and if he can't, then in response to Mrs Schouten's and me's motion, a research group was set up to check how it went. Perhaps we can first look at the infokaprullings, so that we can be sure within a few months, because this has to be exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u88	You have two things. The ruling has to be exchanged, the agreements made, and then exchanged with the country in question, so that the other country knows what profit it has to pay itself. As far as I understand it, you can exchange the ruling, but you don't know how much taxable profits have been reduced. The latter, that's what it's all about. I stated in my term that the Dutch Tax Administration should not guarantee that you can apply these informal capital structures in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u89	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u90	It goes on, of course. My question is also relevant to Mr Omtzigt, to move him to the final conclusion that we may have to get rid of that construction, because what is the most important thing for Mr Omtzigt? That we exchange that that agreement was made and that you can reduce your profits here and thus reduce the tax on profits in this country, but that then we have to tell how big that reduction has been, so that the other country can do that storage? Or just the ruling? In fact, of course, both have to be exchanged, or you just don't have to handle such a construction anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u91	I think a battery of questions has been asked to the cabinet about how these constructions are handled. Ultimately, in exchanging information, it is important for the tax authorities of the other country to understand materially what is happening. If the ruling is not sufficient, more information should be exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u92	In line with the discussion between the SP and the CDA, this model instruction for the exchange of rulings has been in place since 2014. In 2016, it examined how those rulings were exchanged. Let the Netherlands now come forward as one of the three countries applying that model instruction. A large number of other countries, such as Germany, Portugal and Romania, did nothing at all. I would just like to point that out so that we do not think we are incredibly bad when most countries have done nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u93	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u94	Whether the CDA or the SP agrees with me and also finds that the discipline of Brussels is not very big.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u95	I haven't heard a lot of questions. However, I will reassure Mr Mulder even more than he might have already been. I was rapporteur in the Council of Europe and driving the only multilateral instrument that exists for the spontaneous exchange of data between countries. I was six years ago. So he doesn't have to tell me about the need, even in a multilateral context, which is a tricky term for the PVV, but I would like to mention it quite deliberately in order to exchange information. I also see that the Netherlands is not lagging behind. However, that does not relieve us of the obligation to look at this carefully. There's one more thing. He just mentioned Germany. This is yet another difficult country, because it is also subject to decentralised taxation and agreements. There are other countries that may not be as clear on paper as the Dutch Tax Service, as Mrs Leijten just implied. I cannot escape the impression that in a number of southern countries the burden of taxation is considerably less properly entrusted to the paper. That is quite clear to me. Having said that, I am standing here to control the Dutch Government. As long as Mr Mulder of the PVV does not want to go to a European superstate, I will stick to the control of the Dutch Government and I am not here to control the Greek Government or the Portuguese Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u96	The answers can be a little more concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u97	I think this is a win again. We are not going to a European superstate and we are doing it in the Netherlands. My question just now wasn't meant to be an attack at all. It was simply a finding that the Netherlands belonged to the three countries that did at least try to make those rulings clear to each other. That's all it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u99	You asked me to be brief, so I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u100	Okay, fine. Then I'll go to Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u101	I shall come back to the point made by Mr Van der Lee. I do not ask for a reaction, because I think it is okay to look at the pieces first and then give a judgment. However, you did say in your reply that you tabled a motion with Mr Harbers to make that American treatment, that CV/e.g. construction, a bit similar. That was supposed to be the starting point. Actually, that was years ago. Last year there was a motion for a resolution which was sensitive, because it would have required US companies to pay taxes. The VVD was very opposed to that. It is always in favour of this: locational environment, nothing to do with tax avoidance. However, the CDA also voted against it. That was March last year. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u102	If you'll give me that motion, I'll respond in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u103	Okay, but I'll get back to you. Mr Omtzigt would do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u104	In order to help Mr Omtzigt, I think it was twice a motion from Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u105	No, Grashoff and Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u106	If the left-wing colleagues do not know whose motion the motion was, I would like to see the number and the text before I respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u107	I have one more question, however, as a follow-up to this. There are also motions tabled by Mr Merkies, Mr Grashoff and the undersigned on the postponement in Brussels, which the CDA also voted against. If Mr Omtzigt is going to study a bit towards the second term, I would like to hear there I am very curious about how he knows how to combine the fact that he wanted to get rid of the mismatch six years ago with voting away the motions of the SP, GroenLinks and D66 not to wait until 2024.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u108	You can also read that motion about new tax treaties. I will respond to it in the second term if my colleagues would be so kind as to give me the numbers or the motions themselves. If I really should have every motion that is tabled here in my memory, that is about 3,000 a year, I say for the people who are watching and should remember the text of it, then I really should have a photographic memory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u109	I think the administrative part's gonna be just fine. I give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries. She is the last speaker in the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mr. Chairman. Any company, from an SME to a multinational, can request a ruling from the Tax Administration. Indeed, a ruling is nothing more than an agreement whereby the Tax Administration in advance indicates how the established tax rules and rates will work out for your company. So you know what to expect. This kind of ex ante clarity is important for companies, and therefore for employment, even when companies are considering settling here. A ruling also gives the Tax Administration more information and insight into the structure of the company than when assessing the tax return afterwards. Rulings are therefore important for the business environment and employment, but can also help to combat tax evasion and avoidance. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to exchange those rulings between tax administrations. The VVD welcomes the fact that it has now been agreed at international level to do so. The Tax Administration is doing this at the moment and is working hard on it, but as far as my group is concerned, it is still possible to do so. There is no cabinet that has done as much to tackle tax evasion and avoidance as the Rutte II cabinet. A substantial package of measures has been agreed in the EU under the chairmanship of the Netherlands. Country reports and rulings shall be exchanged automatically. Even without a ruling, information on informal capital arrangements is automatically exchanged. There are many anti-abuse provisions, through the Parent-Subsidiary Directive, in treaties with developing countries and through the multilateral instrument. Now let's not saddle the companies and the cabinet with all these new rules again. The House of Representatives sometimes seems like a caterpillar-never-enough. Let the rules that have been agreed do their job first, and let's see if they're effective and what the consequences are. The VVD does not want unilateral steps to be taken, but it is in favour of an international approach. Otherwise, you won't solve the problem. The measures will simply not be effective. It'll just shift. The colleagues in the Chamber can then again, beating each other on the shoulder, see that they are good, but ultimately nobody gets along with it. In fact, we even shoot ourselves with it in the foot. The VVD is against tax evasion, but also against double taxation. Can the Secretary of State reflect on whether there are still a number of cases in which double taxation is paid? Moreover, it cannot be the case that a company does not pay taxes anywhere, or that it only pays taxes where it does not have real activities. However, the VVD is not in favour of taxing which belongs in another country. Information is crucial. Therefore, the VVD is for transparency in the form of exchange of country reports and rulings between tax administrations. I also have a number of questions. Are rulings issued without being sure that they are good, as has been suggested in the media? According to the VVD this is not possible. There can be no ex post approval. The number of rulings received by the Dutch Tax Administration from other countries since the beginning of this year is very low. What explanation does the Secretary of State have for that? And are other countries doing enough? Did those rulings give you any new information? Exchange of rulings between tax administrations should, as agreed, be implemented and completed rapidly by the Tax Administration. That will ensure transparency. The first report of the research group shows, as did the previous study of the General Court, that the ruling practice is in order. It is good to continue to carry out and report on this check regularly. The VVD also seems to be a good idea if the comprehensive note, as it has now been updated to the House of Representatives, is regularly updated and given to the Chamber. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is a broad understanding of rulings that are not issued. Companies need to be able to continue to obtain security in advance, not only because this provides information and insight for the Tax Administration, but also because this creates Dutch jobs. I will continue to fight for a good locational climate in the Netherlands. I'm not doing that for the companies, not to make it fun for companies, but for the people who get a job because of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u111	Can the VVD spokesperson reflect morally on the fact that organisations such as SOMO and Tax Justice Network show that tax avoidance has a significant impact on the economies of developing countries? How does the VVD feel about that? Does she recognize that influence? Or does she think that influence isn't present? In short, please have a reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u112	That influence is indeed present. I think you should look at both sides of the story, not only the tax revenues they miss, but also the tax revenues they actually get. UNCTAD has done research on this. On one side of the balance sheet, I think there was 100 billion they're not getting and on the other hand 800 billion they're getting. I therefore welcome the fact that we are looking even further and also offering developing countries to include anti-abuse provisions in the tax treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u113	Does the VVD actually say that the 12.5% tax avoidance is okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u114	No, I'm not saying that. I think you should look at both sides of the coin. If you're looking at one part, you should also look at the other part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u115	I'm just gonna come back and shoot in my own foot. You used that metaphor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u117	You linked it to the importance of rulings. I pointed out in my deadline that there is a significant decrease in the number of rulings and agreed rulings compared to the past years. This seems to be linked to a number of measures recently taken. These have also been taken to an important extent with the agreement of the VVD. What exactly did you mean by "shooting in your own foot"? It seems to me right that the number of rulings has fallen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u118	I used it in relation to a sentence I said before, that the VVD does not want any unilateral steps to be taken. If you take one-sided steps and the rest of the world doesn't, all you see is a shift, a waterbed effect, a leaking effect. I don't think we're all getting along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u119	Then I come to another one-sided step: the plea for a four-year delay in dealing with the CV/e.g. construction. With today's knowledge and all the information on the table, do you not think it would be unwise for the cabinet to use it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u120	No, on the contrary. I thought that was a very sensible move. In my view, the OECD has also agreed that, in the case of mismatch countries, you should first give them the opportunity to look at that and solve the problem. Here the problem is actually in the US tax system. We were just developing that Trump was chosen. He had announced a number of measures and plans for taxation. Then that problem would be gone, too. I think you should do that first. We shouldn't be collecting the taxes that belong in America here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u121	An uncircumcised right-hand sound of the VVD! That's consistent. If Mrs De Vries says that the Netherlands should not do it alone and that we should not shoot in our own foot, I also think that she should have been a little more ahead of us at European level, because for that the VVD is not yet overexcited. I would like to ask a question about something truly liberal: a government that does not interfere too much with companies, because business has to do it. What does Mrs De Vries think from the perspective that the government should not interfere too much, then that the Dutch government is subsidising tax advice to companies? Is that something a government should do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u122	I think it is important that we focus on bringing companies here. That would be a party of or for labour, and I sometimes have doubts about it. For example, the CV/e.g. structures involved 77 000 jobs. Those are all people who have a job at American companies and just make a living there. So I think you should see how to get companies here. I am also curious to hear the Minister's response, which is especially present all evening to give further details.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u123	We're not against a good locational climate at all. That also requires good schools, infrastructure, cultural facilities and a bit of liveable cities, because otherwise no one wants to work here. Those things also have to be paid for, and everyone has to pay for them properly. But my question was: does Mrs De Vries really think it is a public task to subsidise tax advice for larger foreign companies? That can't be true, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u124	I think you should also have a good tax settlement climate. You know for yourself that we've all made things terribly complicated with each other. I would like the Minister to explain again why this is happening exactly in this way and what the reasons are for it. I think he should just do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u125	I find it really remarkable that you can declare your tax advice to the Minister of Economic Affairs. I think we should publish that somewhere or something, then the baker on the corner can...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u126	Perhaps you could wait for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u127	We asked the Minister today if he wanted to go into it. Then he sent a note that he didn't agree to. So we've already asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u128	You have the chance now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u129	Mrs Leijten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u130	There's a great majority of the House that doesn't want it, minus the VVD. But I have another question, about the résumé-e.g. construction. There is a lot of wobble in the summer and in January and February. As a chamber, we didn't get that information. There's also an internal note. It contains a chapter on the macroeconomic impact and budgetary impact of not applying the CV/e.g. structure. This shows that no higher structural unemployment is expected and that it has no budgetary impact if you stop. So what exactly does the VVD mean by locational climate? Profits from US multinationals are taxed either in the Netherlands or in the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u131	I like how the SP tries to put this down. I often see her crying crocodile tears when jobs disappear again. As far as the CV/e.g. structures are concerned, I refer to the information we have received from the Secretary of State, simply in a BNC-fiche on the CV/e.g. construction. There are 77 000 jobs in US companies under CV/e.g. structures. They could get hit by that. There is also an indication of this, in my opinion, in the sense of "which group might be the first way out?" Those are things we consider. If you don't weigh those jobs, that's fine, that's another political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u132	I have a habit of reading. I also read the internal note. Even the job of a cleaner of a company is included in the jobs given by an, in this case, American multinational. But the cleaner would of course still be there, even if there is another company in it. So you can say a few things about the allocation of jobs. If you go beyond the conclusions of such a report and really dive into it and look at the macro-economic impact and budgetary effects, you can see that it actually says that there are no long-term effects. If you stop that CV/e.g. construction, you do not pay extra tax or more tax, but pay an American multinational tax. It can then choose: is this the case in the United States, where there is more tax on profits than in the Netherlands, or is it the case in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u133	And your question is? Ah, you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u134	I find it very special to hear from the SP that a cleaning lady's job is obviously not important. You can assume none of those jobs go away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u135	There's a lot to say, but that cleaner's job is definitely important. The building must be cleaned...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u136	If it's empty, it doesn't need cleaning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u137	... whether Starbucks is there, the Hema or a temp agency. Therefore, it is false to assign someone who answers or cleans the phone to a particular company.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u138	Mrs de Vries for a response and then I go to Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u139	I don't think a building that isn't occupied needs cleaning. You can say that it is only jobs for highly qualified staff, but no, there are other jobs. There's the cleaning, there's the catering, there's all those jobs. That is why we are fighting for a good locational climate. This is good for jobs, not just jobs for highly skilled workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u140	I would just like to come back to the fact that some companies can get subsidies from the Ministry if they need tax advice. We have indeed received a letter from the Minister. Mrs De Vries said the net, and it is also stated in the letter: these companies contribute above average to employment, directly and indirectly, in the Netherlands. The minister says 16%. This is a justification for sometimes paying for tax advice for these types of companies. SMEs in the Netherlands also contribute above average to employment: 70%. How can Mrs De Vries think that 16% of employment is a justification for granting subsidies and 70% is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u141	In my view, we also have a number of good schemes for SMEs, which deal with the tax setting environment. Think of the SME exemption and the WBSO, which SMEs regularly use.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u142	It might be my fault; I need to say it more specifically. It concerns the provision of subsidies for tax advice. Why is that justified when it comes to 16% of employment and not 70% of employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u143	As I have already indicated, I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to respond a little more comprehensively to the question of why he thinks that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u144	I would like to ask Mrs De Vries' opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u145	Yeah, but, I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u146	I would like to give Mrs Schouten the opportunity to ask her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u147	I know that Mrs De Vries also wants to know why the cabinet justifies this, but the cabinet has already written a letter. So we already know. I was even doubting whether I should ask the Minister my own question, because I always find it a little lame to ask questions twice. Anyway, I didn't quite understand why there was any justification. I don't think it's justifiable. What does Mrs De Vries think on the basis of what she has already learned from this letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u148	You can ask the same question four times, but I have said that I want to hear the Minister's response first. I think he should be given an opportunity to explain this in greater detail. I want to give him that chance, but it's fine if someone else has an opinion on that right now. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u149	Mr President, will you allow me to put the same question again to Mrs De Vries in the second term? I would like to know how she views this herself in response to the Minister's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u150	The fifth time, then. I see that Mrs De Vries is annoying that this question is constantly being asked, but this question is, of course, justified. We have the letter from the cabinet. I fear that Mrs De Vries is going to say for the fifth time that she wants more information from the Minister. Can I make it clear that until now she has not been convinced by the argument in the letter? If she were convinced by this, she would have already replied that she thinks it is very logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u151	You can ask it six times, seven times, eight times, nine times, ten times the question. I think that the Minister should be able to explain this if he thinks that this is necessary for the establishment climate. I think it is necessary for him to be able to explain this. Anyway, you can ask me ten more times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u152	We've had that explanation. Because we had a letter today. Mrs De Vries does not want to put it that way, but I note that she too is not convinced by the explanation given by the cabinet. We'll see if she has anything else to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u153	I understand that it is no longer necessary for a lot of people to have another debate. We also had a round table on this this afternoon, in which everyone had already expressed their opinion beforehand. I think it is important to hear that again from the Minister. If you don't think that's necessary, that's fine. You have to make your choice in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u154	I see that Mr Van Weyenberg wishes to respond, but like the other speakers, he is allowed to interrupt twice. This debate will undoubtedly continue in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u155	Then I'll make it a personal fact, Mr. Chairman. I do not think that Mrs De Vries should wrong her colleagues. We have had a letter from the cabinet which we do not yet find convincing and we may then put a question to Mrs De Vries. That has nothing to do with whether or not we are prejudiced here. I'm asking a question, and I'm allowed to. So I found that accusation a little vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u156	We've taken note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u157	I think it is a good thing that this reproach is now being thrown at me. You may decide in advance whether you consider it desirable or not. In any case, I still think that the Minister's response is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u158	That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u159	I give the floor to the members of the Cabinet to answer in the first term. We have agreed that the Secretary of State for Finance will reply first and then the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u160	Mr. Chairman. After a brief introduction I go into the why of the rulings. We have been asked why we would do that; Mrs Leijten immediately brought that up. I should like briefly to comment on the review, on which questions have been asked. I shall then turn to information, not only the information from the past, which Mr Omtzigt will be interested in, but also my proposals for information from now on. I will also review the status of the exchange of rulings. Finally, there are a lot of other questions that I cannot easily put under the above mentioned headings. As far as they're left, I'd like to deal with those questions. It is striking that there seems to be considerable agreement between the various political groups on a number of points in this debate. For everyone, the morality of paying taxes is at a high point: a fair contribution for everyone. We have all had times when we have, necessarily, had to increase the burden in order to get public finances in order. Everyone understands that avoidance, if there is, does not contribute to reducing the burden on everyone. It is also very much about openness versus confidentiality. Openness is important for trust in the system and for the role of parliament, but confidentiality is important for taxpayers' confidence in the system. If we had had this debate five years ago, it would have been very bad about rulings as an instrument of tax avoidance or tax avoidance as an instrument in the business environment. We've put both of them behind us. Rulings are not an instrument for tax avoidance in that sense. No deals are being made, no negotiations are being made and no departures from the law must be made. Tax avoidance is no longer an instrument in the business environment; we have made this very clear. Congratulations are made to Mr Dijsselbloem and Mr Weekers, but the cabinet has put forward an en-en policy. That's what took a while. Taking all social groups with you has been a job, but in the end it is en-en. This means that the Netherlands must have an attractive locational environment, including from a fiscal point of view, but we do not want to need tax avoidance. In the past, this has been the case more than it is now. That's no secret and it's also in the letter; I wrote it down like this. There are some very bad guys in the class. The baddest guys in the class were the resume/e.g., the hybrid mismatches and the info cap. They all came through here and I wrote them down in the letter. These have been constructions with which we do not usually deal with Dutch taxation through tax avoidance, but have tried to make the Dutch climate of establishment attractive in another country. The Dutch location climate can also be very attractive without these constructions. That has been the cabinet's commitment and the turn that has been made. In this light, congratulations have been made to Weekers over the last four years, as has been said, but Dijsselbloem has contributed significantly more to this than in the 25 years before, against tax avoidance. Transparency and anti-abuse measures have gone hand in hand. This also means that the three naughtiest boys were sent out of class. The CV/e.g. ends in 2020. Some would have liked to have seen that before. I'll tell you a little bit later about why that date was chosen. The hybrids were killed with the Parent-Subsidiary Directive. With the exchange about info cap, that's not much use to you either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u161	I'll come back to those three, but first I have a question about the following. The Secretary of State says congratulations to Weekers and Dijsselbloem, who have put that into effect. Then why did the APA/ATR note with the most common constructions come out via a WOB construction? Why didn't the Secretary of State share it with the Chamber? It was from 2015. We asked for an update and we received it, for which we were grateful, but it took some time before it was understood what the Chamber asked for and before you made it. We now have the constructions in 2017. There's been a change in things. If you say that you have changed that practice, you might think that it could have already been there, that you could have sent to the Chamber at the push of a button that we asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u162	It's gonna get a little messy when we get all mixed up. I will come back to the information to the Chamber in detail. All the measures that ensure that bad boys are expelled are in the Chamber, because they are just announcements of regulations or legislation. There is also a whole stack of policy decisions on the Internet. I would like to come back to that, but I would like to do the information in that part, otherwise it will get a little messy. Then I'm going to link that up with proposals to put a little bit more on top of it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u163	Mrs Leijten, a short question, because the Secretary of State is answering for three minutes and he has announced that he is going to answer a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u164	There is a great deal to be said about the provision of information, but I am concerned about the information we have been given. In my view, this does not show that in 2015 there had already been a huge change in the ruling practice that was agreed. If you say that a lot has changed, that the practice has changed, that tax avoidance is no longer a part, then you would expect a permanent update for 2016 and 2017 in what kind of a schematic is..... to call the note on the often occurring rulings..................................................................................................................................................................... What I noticed is that the 2015 note was not shared with the Chamber but came out through the WOB. I find that striking. If you say that avoidance is no longer part of that practice, you could easily have shared it. The second point that strikes me is that almost six weeks passed before the Secretary of State had on paper what the differences were between 2015 and 2017. Shouldn't that have been on paper when he said the cabinet was very busy and on top of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u165	Well, then let me bring up the piece of information, because otherwise we won't get there. I will simply answer Mrs Leijten's question. It was also a question from Mr Omtzigt. He said in his characteristic way: it should not get crazier; the ten most common structures are on that desk. How's that going? In 2014 this note was made, not because there were new things in it, but in all honesty, because the Secretary of State saw that he had to interfere very strongly with international taxes. He wanted to be informed in a simple way. There's nothing new in those documents, because it's in every tax handbook, but I don't have time to go over all those tax manuals. Much of it is caught up in policy decisions, but in all honesty, I do not always get through those policy decisions either. Perhaps Mrs Leijten will recognize herself in that. A lot of them are on the Internet. None of that's new, but I wanted to get myself up to flight altitude to see what we're talking about. Because I wanted to inform the Chamber more about this, because the debate on rulings was going on extensively, I wrote a letter on the basis of that note. That was early 2015. Information has been provided in recent times by all kinds of agencies, not only in the case of work visits, but there have been technical briefings in a variety of ways, which have attracted a great deal of interest. The work visits were a little less frequent. In 2014 I have looked at this several times in the Acts, suggesting how we could clarify that shadowy ruling practice, because there is an atmosphere of shadowiness surrounding that ruling practice. We all want to believe that it happens neatly, when the AWR says so, but that gnaws anyway, if you can't see for yourself. I have therefore tried in many ways to make proposals or to provide information, but I have not sent a note to the Chamber to bring the Secretary of State to flight level, where there is nothing new. When the Chamber asked, I thought: that is useful; if that is information that is useful for exercising the control function by the Chamber, then an update is also clear. The developments over the past three years did not necessarily land in the ruling practice. It is not just those texts that prevent tax avoidance but simply the legislation that we have implemented here in this Chamber. And if it's not in legislation, it's in policy decisions. I think a lot of things have changed. We have done more in the last three years than in 25 years, but the shady...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that everyone in this room, I am in the lead, will benefit from the prevention of shadowiness. I'd like to make a proposal on that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u166	First there is an interruption by Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u167	The Secretary of State claims with great certainty that all these matters were known. My input here was about the infokaprulings. We looked at what we could find on that. In a letter dated 29 April 2016, the infokaprulings were indeed mentioned by the State Secretary. However, that letter states that the foreign tax authorities are given a correct and complete picture of the activities in the Netherlands and their tax treatment in the Netherlands. That is somewhat at odds, and I am trying to say it nicely with what was in the note, namely that foreign authorities do not have a complete picture of it and may not like it as much as they find out. Did I miss the fact that the Chamber has been informed about the infokaprulings somewhere? I'm trying to read all the pieces. I really can't do this, but I'm really trying. Sometimes I come a long way...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u168	We're gonna try everything at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u169	In my opinion, Mr Omtzigt still needs to finish his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u170	The question is: where has the Chamber been clearly informed about the infokaprulings?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u171	I think this has been in the OECD package, because it will be exchanged on the basis of the OECD packages that we embraced in 2015 from 1 April 2016. That is what was in the OECD documents. This is done with retroactive effect until 2010. That's the exchange. However, this is a bit incomplete. I think Mr Omtzigt has asked eight questions about the info cap. I quickly bundled them all and wrote them down. I wanted to come back to that separately. There's a lot to say about that structure. Again, I'm kind of trying to hold onto the order of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u172	I am happy to see the answers to these questions, but I would like to hear a very specific comment from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u173	The answer is then: 1 April 2016 with retroactive effect until 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u174	In what letter was the Chamber informed that the infokaprullings existed and that the foreign tax authorities were deliberately held in doubt? That was in the famous note we received through the WOB about the mismatch that arose. When was the Chamber informed about that part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u175	I don't know. I don't know how long the info cap exists. I don't know if anyone can make an estimate of that. It's not a new phenomenon at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u176	Then I hope that the letter, which I am sure will come later, will provide an answer to that particular question. Let me put it this way. I am concerned with this description of the infokapruling, including the explicit warning to a secretary of state in the sense of "watch out, if other countries find out about this, they will be angry with you." That's pretty much underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u177	The Secretary of State continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u178	That's not a warning from a secretary of state, it's a warning from a secretary of state. I've taken note of all those pieces when I looked at them. There has been a time when not only the cabinet, but also the parliament and other countries thought differently about the exchange of information. In some cases, they have also decided jointly not to exchange that information despite the fact that it was agreed to do so. That's happened several times. I've been going over history. It has been agreed three times at European level to exchange information, and that has not happened three times, as far as I can tell in no structure or in any country. Again, as far as I can verify. That wouldn't happen now. We wouldn't do that now. We are now exchanging information, including about this info cap. I would like to say a few words about this later, because Mr Omtzigt has asked several questions about this. That's gonna be in the story later, if it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u179	I suggest that the Secretary of State continues his speech now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u180	I have one specific question. I have said this three times, and I will repeat it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u181	I suggest that the Secretary of State should first continue his speech. Then we can find out if this theme is included. I think that is more useful for the course of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u182	No, in his speech, the Secretary of State said he had informed the Chamber. The specific questions will come later, but this wasn't part of it. So I want to ask him that question. I imagine he can't figure it out now, à la minute, so I ask him to let the Chamber know at a later date when he has informed the Chamber about the infokapruling in recent years, so when he has exchanged information about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u183	I haven't come across any information in the last three years about a ruling that has existed for years. I do not think this is new information either. Over the past three years, I have not actively provided the Chamber with information, in the sense of: know that there is such a thing as an infokapruling. But I also did not get the impression that this is a new vehicle that has just been introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u184	That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u185	However, this acknowledges that it is useful to involve the Court in a more systematic way and to inform it of what is happening in the ruling practice. Once again, I would like to make a proposal for this later, because I too want to get rid of this shadowiness. My fight against shadowiness started in 2014, but I still haven't quite succeeded. Mrs Leijten's most important question was: why should you issue a ruling on constructions that you want to fight? If I ask her this well, I think it comes down to that. She's looking at me glassy right now, so I don't know if that paraphrasing is right. But evil is not in the rule. Evil often doesn't even lie in Dutch law. I will say something about this in connection with the info cap, because that is quite a nice example. Evil does, however, lie in the different application between countries. If we don't give advance certainty, those non-matching legal possibilities will remain. Anything that is allowed with a ruling may be without a ruling, but then we do not exchange anything anymore and tax authorities no longer criticize it in advance. It doesn't help the world. A ruling precisely helps to allow the Tax Administration to watch carefully and then to exchange that information with other countries, which we are doing now. The General Court, the EU and the OECD have put a favourable stamp on the Dutch ruling practice. The Chamber has read all this, so I am not going to repeat it now. There is something to be said about the fight against tax avoidance; not about the relationship of the ruling practice, but about that of the law and international agreements. In my view, on the initiative of Mr Omtzigt, the Chamber asked: how do we test that? I was quite receptive to that, because I had also organized some kind of internal test for myself at the time. If you're responsible for something, you want to know at all times whether things are going as you hope. So I turned on a test myself. Mr Omtzigt then asked: how can we, as a parliament, establish that the rule-making practice is in accordance with the rules? I made a proposal to that effect. I have not heard much about this proposal in the Chamber, but let me put it this way: my interpretation would be that we should simply take that test and send it to the Chamber every year. Once again, I would like to say something about the information, perhaps one of the main points of this debate. What do we got now? There are now six-month reports. In it, we report the numbers of APAs and ATRs, but we don't do that by type. We now have a one-off note, partly in response to Mrs Leijten's question for an update. I think this could be more tidy. In addition, I think we should do the following. I would suggest that we add to one of the two half-yearly reports a kind of periodic note every year, which is a little responsive to what is happening in Belgium, but taking into account the differences and differences. There are important differences between Belgium and the Netherlands. There are at least two of them, except that our tax system differs. Belgium also uses the annual report as a kind of policy document to explain to the world how things should be interpreted. We do this in a different way: we do it with policy decisions. We are therefore setting that out objectively in policy decisions, already at this stage. They have some kind of force of law; they are signed by or on behalf of the Secretary of State. That is a whole suit, which is just as thick or perhaps even thicker than the Belgian annual report. I think that is an orderly method, so I do not want to use the annual report to introduce this kind of regulation or pseudo-regulation. I don't want to. The Belgians are an example in some respects, but I understand that the Belgians, in their turn, see this practice of the Netherlands as an example. That's one important difference. The second difference is that we have more standardized in the Netherlands, not in the application, because it differs on a case-by-case basis, but in the format and the type of arrangement; these are more preformatted for each type of ruling. We've put more standard into that. That was done at the time with the cleaning up of the ruling practice: more order has been put in place. This means that we do some things in a different way than in Belgium, but as far as I am concerned, with the same power of expression and in some cases with greater power of expression. I therefore propose to produce an annual report on APA/ATR practice, containing first of all administrative information, such as organisational aspects and numbers; not the numbers sec, but per type of ruling. Then we can follow that. Mr Omtzigt has asked how many info caps there are per year. That's about ten on average, but he doesn't know that, because he couldn't read that. It should not really be necessary for Mr Omtzigt to ask me how many info caps there really are. So the info caps also become a separate category, so we can follow them. With the info caps you can make a distinction between with and without certainty in advance, because this is something that is exchanged even if there is no rule. It is therefore not a question of a ruling, but it is useful information. I also propose that we write down, keep up to date and report how many of these requests have been rejected, how many have been withdrawn, how many have been withdrawn and on what grounds. This can provide insight into what people are looking for. I think it's useful to do that. There is also a certain amount of technical coordination, which will take some time, as Mrs Leijten has pointed out. The Tax Office coordinates and makes sure we do the same thing here as there. So we are talking about structures. Sometimes it is said that we have to do this in the same way, so we will do this in the future. That'so' I would then, if it is somewhat meaningful, also like to report on the way in which I have done it in the Leijten report. That is what I mean in a positive way. Then we can see what the progressive insights are that are simply related to the implementation and interpretation. Anonymizing all those rulings is not an obligation; we are not asked to do so either. That is also a little pointless if we have a format for that. I propose that I give an example by category, anonymised or in some way more generic, so that one can see what it is like: what is promised in it? I have made a try that I have put in addition to the Belgian example. Then you will see that matters, which are more mentioned in the Belgian example, are in our policy decisions. In essence, let us make a model or example of each type, anonymized. I once offered to the Chamber to do anonymized rulings by type. That proposal dates back to 2014; no one ever came back to it. That's not a reproach at all, but as far as I'm concerned, we're just gonna do that now. I then set up that committee. I shall come back to that in a moment, because Mr Van Weyenberg has asked a number of questions. I suggest that the report of her findings should be included in that. Then we'll know what report we gave. I would therefore like to turn to the questions put by Mr Van Weyenberg on the composition of the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u186	You're at the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u187	There's something else I want to say. This means that, as far as I am concerned, we are very close to what has been a shining example for many in this debate: Belgium. Now Belgium is not automatically a shining example in taxation, but Belgium is doing very nicely in this case. Someone said: Belgium produces all anonymised rulings. No, the Belgians don't. They make a kind of anonymized summary per ruling, with paraphrases. To be honest, I wanted to show a model even more specific and without the necessary paraphrasings. That is my proposal on communication. Mr Omtzigt and I may differ on the subject of communication in the past, but I hope that we share the view that we need to get rid of this and that he does not have to ask me how many infokaprullings have been issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u188	I welcome the proposal put forward by the Secretary of State. It really comes very far from what various groups have asked for. I would just like to make a very specific point, because I asked for it in my speech. This concerns information on rejected applications. If I have understood the Secretary of State correctly, he would like to state the reasons for all decisions, including rejected requests. He is prepared to give examples of the requests that have been made. When it comes to the rejections, can the Secretary of State perhaps provide a little more information than just the ground on which it was rejected? I think it is precisely in that corner that there is important information that can be very useful to others too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u189	What I didn't propose was to give a reason for each rejection separately. I was gonna do that categorized. There have been so many rulings withdrawn, rejected or whatever, and these have been the grounds for doing so. That could be "in conflict with good faith" or whatever. I would also suggest that if new figures appear there, I simply explain this qualitatively in some kind of annual report-like mode. What I expressly do not propose is that I produce a separate document before each rejection and send it to the Chamber, because then we get busy together. I do not believe that this is conducive to the Chamber, but not to the Tax Office. That is where we really need to focus as much as possible on control and not just on reporting. If Mr Van der Lee wants to know what is happening there but also what new forms are being tried, that is part of my commitment. I would like to make that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u190	I think that is enough to answer my question. I think it would be very good if, after a first report, we could look at whether this meets what the Chamber would like to see or whether there are additional wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u191	I am also pleased to see that the Secretary of State is in a positive position to report and raise the fog. In order to avoid possibly a motion: can the total amount of tax reductions granted to the 1,900 companies with which the Ministry made those agreements, and then compared to the nominal amounts that should be paid, be included in the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u192	I'll give you that number right now. The answer is zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u193	The Secretary of State surprised me, but he surprised me a lot in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u194	What am I supposed to think of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u195	That is why I mentioned the nominal amounts. I did so because these tax arrangements and discounts mean that the effective amounts are lower than what should be paid in nominal terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u196	No, that's really a misconception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u197	Then maybe I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u198	I would very much like to explain this. I would like to thank Mr Van Raan for his question, because it shows what we think. The title of this debate included the words 'deals with'. There are no deals. There's no negotiation. Anything that can be done with a ruling can also be done without a ruling. Suppose someone doesn't know exactly how to fill out their form and asks: if I do this, is it a mortgage or a personal loan? In the context of the question of what a ruling is, let me give an example that can be understood by everyone. You're starting a bed and breakfast. Then you want to know what the private quarters are and what the business quarters are. Then there is an inspector who says: these are business rooms and those are private rooms; then it is so much per cent of the floor space. Does that save tax? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You can ask: if I do it like this, is it okay? Then the inspector says, if you do it like this, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u199	Thank you for the exhibition, Secretary of State. I'll tell you through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u200	You can also say "alderman."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u201	Yes, alderman. Let me try to rephrase it. Thus, the approximately 1,900 tax arrangements do not differ between the nominal tax rate, the corporation tax and the dividend tax and what has actually been paid. That's what the Secretary of State actually says. We can verify that, and we'll be happy to. So the Secretary of State says there's no difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u202	In fact, I propose that we have every year checked whether this is the case and report it to the Chamber. If the number isn't zero, then something has to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u203	We often stand here when we disagree. Then I find it rather chic to say here that I support the fight against fog. I now use the word of the Secretary of State, "missiness" instead of "transparency." That last word, as Mrs Leijten rightly said, is a word that appeals to D66. I have prepared a motion with Mr Van der Lee, but everything I would like to ask in it now says the Secretary of State. I have one more question about that and it concerns the moment when it takes place. We could see in front of us that this becomes part of the tax plan. Then we can always look at it when we talk about next year's policy. Does the Secretary of State think about that moment? Or is he thinking of another moment? In order to remove misunderstandings, such as the misunderstanding that discounts are being given, it is extremely important that we reduce the fog and shadowiness much further. I think this is a very nice and successful debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u204	This is about timing. I want to be very practical in that. I think it is part of the service's reporting and therefore not of a report by the Secretary of State. Nor is it part of a tax plan package. Mr Van Weyenberg could probably imagine what would happen if it became part of the tax plan. Then we won't even go to sleep. I wanted to do that in a six-month report. Then it's one in two, but I'm receptive to other suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u205	I was allowed to deal with two tax plans in this Chamber. I am also sensitive from the Chamber to the argument that spreading the workload over the year is often efficient. So the Secretary of State convinced me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u206	In the Secretary of State's proposal we get a prototype of a security in advance. So it could be a dress or a pants. But a dress for the summer is better not to wear in winter, and the other way around it is the same. Otherwise you'll be too hot in the summer and too cold in the winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u207	So far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u208	A dress doesn't say much. Whether it's a summer dress or a winter dress, that's the difference. How does the Secretary of State see it? I'm just making it practical. The same applies to pants. Pants can be short or long, thick or thin. It can also be made parallel for men. But with a prototype, you can't do that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u209	That was clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u210	To answer Mrs Leijten's question, I would even be prepared to act in the skirt, but I do not quite understand her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u211	My question was not finished either. I understand that when it comes to taxes and you talk about clothes, there's some hilarity. But I wanted to make it clear. It is said that you will be given a prototype and you will have an insight into the practice. The essence of a prototype is correct: if you wear it in winter then it is lined and it is thick. If you wear it in summer, it is without sleeves and thin fabric. That makes the difference between a dress and a dress huge. I cannot do so much with a prototype if we do not have the essential parts of it visible. What do these prototypes look like? Is the qualification "dress," or is the qualification also "summer dress," "winter dress" and perhaps also "a chic dress"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u212	As a result of this analogy, I think the precision and the technical content within the Tax Administration are somewhat underestimated, because in the Tax Administration a dress is just a dress and pants are pants. What I want to say specifically is that I am not sitting here trying to be silly. I really want to give you some insight into how it works. That also benefits me, because then we have a meaningful conversation with each other. I don't want to let dresses like pants go through life. I want to do it nicely. For example, if there are two very different types within one appearance, the summer and winter type, then I will make sure that they go through life separately. I want to do this in a proper way and I will, so to speak, have my first report assessed on adequacy by people doing this research. They can see with fresh eyes whether this gives a good picture to the Chamber and also to me, because I use it in the same way. I'm not in the ruling practice all day, either. Never, because that is something that a Secretary of State should not interfere with. We are in favour of this being done in a proper manner. I will ask the independent experts the first time: is this a good reflection of what is happening APA/TR practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u213	A brief final remark from Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u214	I would actually like to make a proposal to the Secretary of State for the assessment of a dress, which is different in summer than in winter; I hope you have understood me, Mr President. The prototype is the same, but the execution is very different. The technique of making clothes is also quite sophisticated, I would say. Just publish now, even if it's just a summary, what you agreed to with a company. That is, by the way, the agreement in the European Group. I have these appointments here, and it just says it's published on the Tax Office website. Then we don't have to say, "Oh, Secretary of State, have you made a distinction between a summer dress and a winter dress?" Then we don't have to have an expert group look at that. Then we can judge for ourselves whether journalists or other technicians can see that. However, I would like to appeal once again to the Secretary of State, how much I appreciate all his handouts to the Chamber on information provision, to return to'much simpler'. Publish what you meet. If you don't want to publish that by appointment, publish a summary by appointment. That is what has been agreed in Europe. Then we can assess whether we are dealing with a prototype for winter or summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u215	I should like to mention Mr Van Weyenberg's logic. If we present more or less formatted with standard formats certain arrangements, it makes little sense to continue working on all individual copies. I suggest you don't do that. It is also time-consuming, because then we have to anonymize the differences that exist. You'll get a whole pack of paper. I'm standing here for something else. I'm also in favour of control. It's about big companies. The capacity doesn't run us over the shoes. I also benefit from the fact that as many people as possible are involved in monitoring and monitoring businesses. Ultimately, it is also just monitoring: from book checks to assessment of structures. I therefore benefit from using capacity for something that has added value. I am fully convinced that this has no added value, but let us try it once and let the Chamber decide whether this is understandable before we start a major project. I really suggest that the Chamber give me a chance to show that in a proper way. Mr President, I do not even need to make that appointment if the Members here are aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u216	You've interrupted this point three times. I suggest that I first Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u217	No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u218	No, three times. Yeah, really. I propose that I first have Mr Van Rooijen interrupt. The debate is still going on and you will really have room for...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u219	Then may I make one final remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u220	One final remark, but shorter than any of your previous interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u221	The Secretary of State says that I am in favour of a major project, but I think my proposal is for officials to produce all these documents for the Chamber and to put all these summaries and prototypes on paper, just a lot of work out of hand. If he arranges that, when a ruling is issued, the whole ruling is anonymized or summarised on his website, as agreed in Europe, we can see that information. We can then apply the control he so much wants. Then we don't have to experiment with packs of paper, because we can just go to the IRS website.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u222	The word "just" is not in question here. I would like to draw attention to the people who have studied this issue and who have raised their minds in other countries. Those people are, frankly, shivering in the benches for that extra workload. We really shouldn't get caught up in it. I'd like to have a chance to present it once. It is, of course, still a growth document, but at least we can discuss it at some point. We are talking not only about the content but also about the form. I am at least convinced of that. That is a really good step in combating the shadowiness surrounding the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u223	I noticed that the Secretary of State just made a remark between the lines which I consider to be very important. I also discussed it with the Minister yesterday during the examination of the Court of Auditors' report. He said at the time: it is also very important that there is good supervision and proper supervision by the Tax Administration of companies, especially the larger ones. Will the Secretary of State come back to this? If so, I'll wait for that. He made this remark in between, and I noticed that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u224	Perhaps sufficient control is a passion shared by Mr Van Rooijen and I, but no. This debate is about rulings. I am working on an enforcement letter, which deals with the audit in detail. I look forward to the debate on this, because I have all kinds of ideas about it. I would like to debate this, but that is not what this debate is for. We also need to keep an eye on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u225	I spoke in my speech about the Director-General for Taxation, because he himself said something about this supervision last week. I assume you'll come back to that anyway. He was talking about the importance of supervision at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u226	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u227	I think it belongs in this debate, because I have also raised it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u228	Not everything anyone raises belongs in the debate. Then let me respond very briefly. I once spoke in an earlier AO about what I find to be a false contradiction, namely that very black and white distinction between horizontal and vertical supervision. As a result, we have started to think that horizontal supervision means 'no more control'. At that time I opposed it and the dg spoke out exactly in the same direction. We both believe that this black and white relationship should not be there and that we should look into the enforcement letter to the Chamber. Internally, that works disciplinously, because it forces us to think, but I also want to answer to the Chamber about the tax administration's enforcement strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u229	A brief final remark, Mr Van Rooijen. I believe that this will also be discussed in the general consultation next Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u230	I think it will then be discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u231	Then I want to make sure that next week, whenever exactly, it will be discussed, because this is at least as important as the ruling practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u232	The really important discussion will be conducted on the basis of the enforcement letter. That's the time! To be honest, I would find the subject too important to put it into an overcrowded AO. Let us give Mr Van Rooijen a chance to share this There's gonna be a letter and I hope he's gonna love it. At least as a writer, I love it. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about this exchange. It didn't go well in the past. Let us distinguish between two different exchanges. At OECD level, the deadline was 1-1-17. We've established that we didn't make that deadline. The Chamber has asked several times when it will succeed. I didn't guarantee at the time that it would be possible on 1-118. In the meantime, I expect that, because practice is progressing, we are accelerating and we are now achieving a higher number of exchanged rulings per month than ever before. I think we pretty much made it to the OECD by 31-12. The EU has a deadline a year later. The EU database just arrived. I think it's still in the primer, but it was presented a week ago, I say out of my mind. That means the exchange can begin. I have no reason at this time to believe that we wouldn't make that deadline. As far as I am concerned, this is the update, but we also discuss this every time we go through the six-month reports. As far as I am concerned, it belongs only indirectly in this debate, but we can discuss it again in the six-month report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u233	I find it difficult to reconcile this answer with the fact that this week we have heard Mr Juncker in the European Parliament address the Netherlands firmly. He called on us to finger the Secretary of State because there was going to be a run-of-the-mill. Can the Secretary of State still comment on that accusation? I find that hard to reconcile with the information he just gave to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u234	I may not have been there when Juncker would have said that, and I have not heard of it, but the deadlines of Mr Juncker, the EU deadlines, have not yet expired at all. The database you want it in has just been presented. I do not know how I could reasonably have fallen any further behind. Perhaps Mr Juncker can look into the future. When I see his vision documents, I don't think that's always the case, but no, I don't see how I could have reasonably failed by now. As you know, I'm always willing to fail, but I can't do it that quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u235	Now that his name has been mentioned, Mr Juncker's, I would like to touch on another point. He also advocated the lifting of the right of veto established in the Commission in connection with the Panama Papers, if I do have it. Can I hear the Secretary of State's opinion on this? Would not the lifting of the right of veto in several areas be a good step towards sound tax harmonisation in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u236	That depends on what your political judgment is about the quality of that harmonisation. It is obvious that harmonization is more likely to be achieved if you make changes easier, but then the question is how do you estimate that harmonisation will fail? As is well known, the Dutch Parliament and the Cabinet have consistently criticised the CCCTB, a proposal which affects the Netherlands not only, but also makes tax illogical and creates new possibilities for circumvention. If your goal is only to harmonise, then you should always welcome this kind of thing. Then, moreover, the abolition of democracy is also a way of achieving convergence very quickly. I seriously believe that we in the Netherlands also have justified doubts about some of those directions. Moreover, the Dutch Parliament has expressed its views on several occasions, and also on the government, on the desirability of continuing to deal with our own tax system to a significant extent, specifically with the desire to move forward with the OECD measures. If we stick to the OECD package, we will revolutionize international taxation. I do not think it is necessary to abolish a right of veto in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u237	I was very pleased with the first part of the answer, because the Secretary of State stresses that he looks at the quality and content. I do not hear in principle no to giving up the right of veto in this area in the future, which I consider to be a gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u238	That's an interpretation of its own. We all know the answer here isn't black and white. There are firm views, even in the Chamber for me, that countries themselves should be autonomous on their tax systems. In practice, however, we see at the same time that we are working together, for example in the framework of the OECD and of various EU proposals, to jointly combat avoidance, but also against high administrative burdens, for example. We also do things about this, for example in the field of VAT. We also do things against fraud. With regard to the carousel fraud, we work closely together. So it's not that black and white. I think Mr Van der Lee's conclusion is his direction, so to speak. There are still questions from almost every spokesperson that I have not been able to take with me in the general story, for example the first question that Mrs Leijten asked. That was also a question from Mr Omtzigt. The question was how, when we issue a ruling, we know for sure that this is not about a villain, about corruption, money laundering, and so on. The APA/ATR procedure takes this into account. When issuing an APA/ATR, that procedure states that the beneficial owner must be examined. It's called the UBO check. Then we look at whether there is a relationship with corruption and money laundering, for example, whether there is a conflict with good faith and whether there are suspicions of bribes, property crimes, etc. All this is laid down in the Tax Administrative Law Decision. That's how it's gonna be. It's still human work, so I'm always a little chilly when someone asks me if I can guarantee it. I can guarantee that it is the intention and I can guarantee that everything will be done about it. I don't know if it's gonna work out in the end. If I knew it wouldn't work, it would be easy. Then, apparently, we knew something was wrong, then we put an end to it, and then we could do it again. Of course, we don't know about things that can't be done right now. I hope that means we've all done this job well. It is being done very seriously, because it is one of the checks in the procedure that has been laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u239	Let me see if you're at the end of this subject, Secretary of State. I'm trying to speed up the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u240	I am now working on the category of other questions. I started with Mrs Leijten, because from now on I will do it in order. I'm trying to get through it in a hurry, because I've already had a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u241	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u242	That check at the time a ruling is concluded, agree. I believe that this is done with the best of intentions. However, someone may be on an international penalty list and have a ruling. What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u243	That cannot be the case. If he comes up with it, I can easily assume that the ruling will be revoked. I'm gonna take a look at the benches where the officials are. There's a little miraculous look going on. You know what, it's a second term thing. Now the sentiments of Mrs Leijten and of me are suddenly coming to an end. Mrs Leijten wanted to know whether the committee of inquiry could look at the info caps as a matter of priority. I have no objection to that. That committee of inquiry should start by looking at what is risky and critical and then I don't think info caps are a weird start at all. The research group must of course be independent, but we will certainly convey this suggestion through the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u244	I have a question about those info caps. Summaries of rulings shall be exchanged. In the past, it has been decided that if it was about informal capital, we would conceal that information. If you sum up veiled information, the IRS gets...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u245	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u246	Can we assume that that summary actually states that this is about agreements on informal capital?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u247	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u248	And what do they say, so that the Tax Administration that has to see that doesn't get any more veiled information?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u249	The info-kap structure is not that complicated in itself. There are different species and that lands in that way in a description. I don't think that's the most complicated structure. I think it's still pretty complicated to cover it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u250	In the past, decisions have simply been taken to make the Netherlands fiscally attractive by offering to conceal this kind of informal capital arrangement from the other tax authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u251	Sure, not to exchange them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u252	Even then, you can exchange information, but if you cloak the information so that the person who gets the information can't read what it says, you still have a problem. Is this practice over? Otherwise, there is no point in exchanging.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u253	I don't know about cover-up. I know that several times it has been decided not to exchange it, which is a way of covering up. But I don't know about an appointment to write it down veiled. I think that's a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u254	So the exchange happens in such a way that the other tax authorities...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u255	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u256	...know exactly what was agreed on informal capital?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u257	In his speech, Mr Omtzigt asked a lot of questions about the info cap. One of the questions is how this exchange works. That goes in two stages. I will say something about it by the time I deal with Mr Omtzigt's questions; then I will have it a little bit together. I'm trying to speed things up. Mr Van Raan raised several issues. I have already got to the subject of morality and I will get to the subject of infokap. He also asked if all rulings passed the European test. Well, our ruling practice has been tested several times and has always come through the jury. That is the answer to his question: yes. But it's not weird to organise quality assurance on your own. Mr Van Raan also asked if I am prepared to amend the tax form. That question is undoubtedly about the info cap. Indeed, even if no ruling has been issued, this is reported to the other country. And indeed, as of 2016, the declaration note contains an additional question, indicating whether there is an info cap. Then you have the info cap in view and then the further information exchange can take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u258	I have two enlightening questions. I was talking about this European regulation and the multilateral instrument. The Secretary of State was just talking about the European review. Are we talking about the same thing? That is the first question. And yes, it's true: there's a check mark on the tax return. Of course, what the Secretary of State says is true. But that tick is the only thing. This means that the reported interest rate is still only one amount. The point is therefore that no distinction is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u259	Divorce to what?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u260	Distinction between, on the one hand, interest paid as a result of informal provision of capital by a mother, possibly in another country, and, on the other hand, interest paid on other loans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u261	Mr President, I'm trying to keep things together, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u262	It is precisely the reporting of the interest paid that is entirely according to the rules, but not again abroad as income or profit is seen on payment of that loan. Because that's the problem. So, yeah, there's a check mark on the report form, but, no, that's not enough. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make a distinction by means of the tax form? At the Tax Office itself, people also say: just give it up separately, that's the shortest blow. They say, "Then there's nothing wrong and everyone knows exactly what they're up to."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u263	I keep trying to keep the questions about info caps together. It's a tempting subject. I have put together all the questions about this. Mr Omtzigt has asked a lot of questions about it. I'll come back to the way the information exchange goes. I also propose that tax forms should not be drawn up here in plenary. But I really want to answer the questions about the MLI now, because I had indeed skipped them, for which I apologize.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u264	We finish the block on info caps before we go to the answers to the remaining questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u265	Well, that subject is quite frankly a bit later in the discussion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u266	Okay, then it'll come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u267	You can't do that? I am now working through all the spokesmen, hopefully the most efficient way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u268	Yeah, I've got some work to do, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raan asked a question that I had mistakenly skipped. His question was, in fact, whether the MLI is not an empty shell if there are no tax treaties. No, it's under the MLI that tax treaties are brought in. The MLI is about elements of treaties. We indicate with which elements in treaties we want to prevent treaty abuse. Then we'll see if the other country wants to, and if there's a match, we'll do it. The Netherlands has been very generous in putting the ticks in place, because we very much want to combat treaty abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u269	Mr Van Raan, I think it would be useful to wait until the Secretary of State has answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u270	I have answered Mr Van Raan's questions in general or now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u271	All right, I will give the floor to Mr Van Raan, if he has any additional questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u272	We differ on that, but I will come back to that in my second term. I just want to make sure that I've misunderstood and that the Secretary of State has understood correctly. I understand that the agreement only says that if we amend a treaty or if countries that have signed it amend a tax treaty, the adjustment applies immediately to all other tax treaties between countries that have also signed the MLI. This means, in concrete terms, that you must decide whether a tax treaty is covered by the MLI. If anything changes, a similar agreement will also apply immediately in other countries that have signed the MLI, which means that all tax treaties on that point will be changed immediately. That's how it's been explained to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u273	If I understand Mr Van Raan correctly, I have the impression that there is some kind of clock and clapping in there. Let me give it a try. The argument seemed to suggest that there could be several tax treaties between two countries. Two countries together have one tax treaty between them. If the Netherlands checks measure number five and the other country also checks measure number five, that tax treaty has changed since then. A third country may also put a check on measure number five. Then, too, the tax treaty between that country and the Netherlands has changed in one blow. That is therefore a very efficient way of working with tax treaties. At the same time, it is a very good way to see the intentions of countries, because how many ticks do they actually put? Well, some countries put fewer ticks than you might think based on their story, but the Netherlands has a lot of ticks because we think that our location climate should be very good, but not because of avoidance. There you go. Mrs Schouten's question was whether the Netherlands has actively cooperated to encourage tax avoidance. I thought that was a very general question. We all know that in the past branch climbs in general, including that of the Netherlands, were more dependent on constructions that we now reject. But I must honestly say that I have found the fight against tax avoidance very firm over the past three years. The Netherlands played a very active role in this. There's nothing else I can answer. Mrs Schouten also asked about the committee of inquiry. Why wouldn't there be outsiders in there? Mr Van Weyenberg also asked that question. Then we also have to think about the question: who then? In itself, there's some tension in it. It's about individual taxpayers, because you look at examples of that and so on. So you don't want Jan and alleman watching that. You could think of something else, some kind of plaster construction where someone outside is covered by secrecy or whatever. Then you want an explicitly independent person, a real top fiscalist who's independent. Let's go shopping. We'll start with the advisors. Does anyone raise their hand for that? I don't think so. Then we'll start with the professors. It seems that there are still a few professors in the Netherlands who are not members of an agency. Then perhaps we should look at the top fiscalists of the lobby groups. I'm through my fiscalists, I'm through. I sincerely believe that within our service we have enough people who are not involved in APA/ATR practice, but who are so knowledgeable and independent and also have the courage to say what is wrong, that they are ideally suited to do so. But here too I would say: if we have doubts on the first or the second time, we can always do something else. But I'm standing right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u274	I have said in my own term that it is not so that I do not trust that the people working for Finance are doing this job well. That's not what I'm talking about. However, the aim of this instrument is also to show that we also have the courage to test policies. Then I think the value of that review will be even greater if you let independent people do it. I made the same ticking list, and I think Mrs. Schouten made the same. I share the State Secretary's observation that the list of independent experts, such as professors who are not affiliated with an advisory office or who do not hold a chair paid by an organisation or company, is not as exhaustive as the number of tax structures that the State Secretary can devise. They are, however, and I think that's the search. Again, I don't care if I don't trust people. I think the value is even greater if...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u275	Yeah, but that'll be outside imaging. The first thing I'm talking about outside is this room. I think he can see through that and he should be able to see through it. I really want to give the Tax Administration a chance, so the people who are not involved, to prove independence and quality. I honestly do not know who we should involve on a regular basis, so that we all believe in it even more. I wanted to get that chance. Let me put it this way. I went through this barrel, too. My first question was: why don't we put an outsider in it? I think the people here can remember that very well. I have continued this desire even longer than Mr Van Weyenberg, I think, until I have been convinced that we really had to start differently and that it might not have been possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u276	I think that the Secretary of State has clearly indicated that his search for the outside will eventually come back in, that he will eventually reach officials of the Tax Administration who are far removed from the practice we are judging here. I would say, let the Secretary of State go further, regardless of whether the Court of Auditors can carry out a separate audit at any time. Looking for a single professor? I fully agree with the Secretary of State, nor do I understand why a professor has a higher value than good officials of the Tax Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u277	This is what I love about you. This is what makes me quiet!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u278	I totally disagree with that, of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u279	Yes, I understand that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u280	Questions have already been asked by employees: isn't that something for us? There are a lot of experts. No, I'm kidding. The point is that we can really clarify this and give it some kind of validity. I do not dispute the skills and expertise of the staff of the Tax Administration, but if we can really show the outside world "this is the practice, this is what is happening"... that committee has quite a role in it, because it has to put the stamp on it.. seems to me that the Secretary of State himself must want him not to be blamed for letting only his own people look at it. Actually, I'm trying to think a little bit about getting the Secretary of State to give more validity to his committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u281	I fully agree with Mrs Schouten's speech on the substance. That was the reason for me to focus initially on the presence of an external. I have been convinced that this is not sufficiently practicable at the moment and would not really lead to any added value, but to a lot of hassle. It is clear to me that I have not yet been able to convince Mrs Schouten, but I wanted to try this at first instance, with her suggestion in mind. We will have to look each other in the eye at the first report to see if we think this is sufficiently credible to the outside and of sufficiently high quality. Her point is not the second, but the first; I noticed that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u282	The tricky thing is that we cannot judge that, because of course we do not know whether or not people outside believe this. Next time, that's no different than this time. Again, it's not like I don't believe it. I do assume the integrity and expertise of the staff of the Tax Office. However, we must be able to show that we are not afraid to be transparent about this. I'll admit that this search is gonna be a little tricky, but I think it's possible. I don't know why the Secretary of State says now: I've tried everything and I can't. I admit that there are not many of them, but there really are some independent experts who might want to work on this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u283	I told him I got convinced. I think we'll find out. We can see what the image of the document is. In my view, rulings are an excellent subject on which enough views circulate and for which the press is sometimes interested. I therefore believe that we are going to see how the credibility of research is being thought of in society. Moreover, I am confident that this will also be seen as something serious and independent. In my opinion, the credibility and status of the Tax Administration in Dutch society are such that they want to believe this from the service. But let's set this up for the first time we're presenting this. Then let's see if this might need to be adjusted. In the meantime, I will think further about the possibilities of doing so. But again, I'm gloomy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u284	Since we are talking so constructively tonight, I would like to add a suggestion. I am a little surprised that this difficult search seems to be limited by our national borders, while I think the Secretary of State also feels some pride in the fact that the Dutch ruling model is being followed further in Europe. In many areas we work with peer reviews between countries. Is it not worth considering whether we could find those independent experts from outside the Netherlands, but also in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u285	Shall I include this in the further reflection on what might be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u286	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u287	I can't look over that for a moment, but I think it's an interesting suggestion. I have already addressed Mrs Schouten's pressing question as to whether the fiscal attractiveness of this construction has been removed. After that, however, she asked: what exactly does the word "dominant" mean? These are not, in principle, any constructions that are intended or appropriate to create circumvention. Those are the three naughty boys. However, the concept of permanent establishment simply determines where to pay taxes. Do you have to pay it here or there? A small omission in Mrs Leijten's speech was perhaps that at some point she said that you should choose where to pay taxes. That is not allowed; it is determined by such concepts. That's just to determine whether you have to pay taxes here or there. It's just that advisors are getting smarter and smarter. So I guess someone's gonna make something up. So I put the word "dominant" there, because I'm sure there's someone outsmarted me. We'll find out later, and we'll fix it in a tax plan. Mr Van der Lee wants to know why we have called for the postponement of ATAD 2. The cabinet has provided a chip for that. That is what we have argued in that regard. I think that these arguments have made very little impression on Mr Van der Lee. He disagrees with that. I think we can both list the two reasons for this postponement. Firstly, the OECD does say that the other country is inclined to collect it. We wanted to give the other country that opportunity, precisely because it appeared in the press that there would indeed be adjustments to the US tax system. Secondly, you may agree with the CV/e.g. or not, but we have accepted that system in Parliament. CV/e.g. is recorded in public documents. Companies have taken long-term business decisions on this. Whatever the spirit of time does and whatever it changes, we are an organized government and should not shame those companies. Yes, you may change the rules over time, but that takes some time. It's not about small decisions, it's about big decisions. Sometimes this means you want to change something, but you have to take your time. That is unfortunate in some cases, but orderly. That was the reason to plead for postponement. Then the Chamber said: "Don't do that." We didn't do that anymore, and a compromise was reached in Brussels. Now it's in the law. Why isn't the fare important? There are no tariffs in rulings. We don't negotiate tariffs because they're in the law. There is no rule on tariffs, as these are not subject to rulings. What happens to the 535 rulings from abroad? They are involved in the levy at some point, and in the information file it has just arrived; the stuff is running just now but that is, of course, the intention in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u288	I have two more questions, but I will start with the final point. Since you are so forthcoming with regard to the provision of information to the Chamber, can you inform us about what you are doing with the information received from other tax authorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u289	Well, that seems like a difficult issue to me. This means either that I have to say in general that I have received it, that they have been processed and that they have been taken into account in the attack, or that I have to be very precise, and I have to provide information on individual taxpayers. I don't think that makes much sense. It's obvious what to do with it. It is information that is important in imposing tax attacks and that informs us whether something should be included in the tax or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u290	I am not interested in the details, but I am interested in the fact that the Chamber is able to check whether something is actually being done with information exchanged. This is a very important measure which has been agreed internationally in order to avoid a number of things. Any report on what happens to that information seems to me to be quite crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u291	This is a very fundamental point. We exchange rulings to monitor taxpayers. If we were to report to the Chamber now what is happening with that information, it would seem to be intended to supervise the Tax Office. There are thousands of sources of information, but apparently we do not trust that the Tax Administration takes sufficient account of one specific source of information. Let the Tax Administration in all its professionalism simply do its job on the basis of all available data. This is only part of the data. There's a lot of other data. We need to trust the Tax Administration to enforce the law. If we report specifically on what the Tax Administration has done with this information, the next step is to look at what the Tax Administration has done with information from the Internet. I propose that we leave that to the professionalism of the service and that we set up our systems to obtain information about taxpayers rather than information about the service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u292	Mr Van der Lee, I see that you would like to ask another question, but you have just interrupted twice. I'm asking the Secretary of State to pursue his argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u293	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to quote Mr Van Rooijen. He says: the more transparency, the more support for rulings. That seems to me to be the motto of this debate. Mr Mulder wants to know how many jobs provide rulings. If the question is whether I think there are deals being made that create jobs, there are zero. We don't make deals. Everyone follows the law. Security in advance and afterwards is exactly the same. The system of advance security is an important asset of the Dutch Tax Administration, because uncertainty is not good for anyone. If both the Tax Office and the taxpayer can be guaranteed, we have not spent money but added value. On the question of whether this creates jobs, I say: in all cases, our system provides jobs, but I cannot quantify that. Mr Azarkan suggests that the tax structures that have passed the review avoid Dutch taxation. They generally don't. In many cases it is American tax, whereas the Americans know damn well how the system works, but so far they have done nothing about it. In the meantime, we have done something about it. He also asked why Bermuda wasn't blacklisted. We're still working on the blacklist. We're building the blacklist. Bermuda is also being examined in this context. By the end of this year, we're gonna have to have this done and we're gonna be able to see who's on that list. I believe he also asked why European tax havens are not blacklisted. I do not know which European tax havens he means. Third countries are assessed against EU standards, which are an EU vehicle and are not seen by EU countries. We do not need a blacklist to talk about taxation in the Union. These are third countries with which we do not have that relationship. A blacklist would be a means of influencing that, but we do not have to do that between ourselves, because we have other possibilities for that. Mr Azarkan also said that the candy should be restricted. I dare to say that I don't think the participation exemption is a good thing. The cabinet has embraced the reduction of corporate tax with an en-en policy; both one and the other. I am a little sad that Mr Van Weyenberg says that information would have been more proactive. I have thought very carefully about it, because there was a hint of information about this file from the beginning. I still can't come up with a piece that I think contains new information that I should have sent to the Chamber. The Netherlands does want to take steps. The reporting on the ruling is also part of that transparency. Mr Van Weyenberg also asked whether the Netherlands would like to take the lead. I've noticed before that he's a very good version comparer. I have to be careful with that, because sometimes, apparently, I write something down in a different way than before. It still means that the Netherlands wants to lead the way. In what way? And-and. We want to combat tax avoidance. We want to take the lead in that. We have done that in recent years, I dare say. At the same time, however, we want to maintain the locational environment very well, because it is about our jobs. Is there a future for the info cap? Not in the end, I guess. The exchange of information, which I'm about to come up with, is going to do something about it. In the direction of Mr Van Weyenberg, I say that the research group has not been able to establish that the non-legal restrictions were a form of payment or compensation for non-legal emolescences. That hasn't been established. So they have remained on the safe side, but there has not been any visible opposition to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u294	I would like to comment on the answer to D66's questions. I asked another question about our fiscal sovereignty. The Secretary of State just said that the establishment policy must remain sound. That includes sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u295	We have always found it firm that we are dealing with our own system. At the same time, we in the Netherlands have always been very motivated to cooperate with all kinds of countries. I applaud the OECD, but we have also made great strides in Europe. So it's not mutually exclusive. The Netherlands is about its own system, but it is committed to working together to reduce tax avoidance, and we are doing so both at OECD and at EU level. That is the only possible answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u296	Another answer is possible, because of course it is about Mr Juncker's pilot balloons on changing the use of the veto. Then how does the Secretary of State judge it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u297	I'm not gonna respond to test balloons at all. We've agreed exactly how we react to things. As soon as a proposal is made, the cabinet will issue a file on it and discuss it with the Chamber. I leave test balloons for everyone. I'm not gonna respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u298	I know this is the third time, Mr President, but I have now asked twice very nicely. Surely it must be possible for this Secretary of State to give an answer or make a statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u299	The Netherlands is about its own tax system. At the same time, we are working together against tax avoidance. I don't respond to test balloons. Mr Omtzigt asked how infokaprulings would be exchanged. That goes in different steps. On step one, the other country receives confirmation that there is an info-capping situation. The other country may then request the information associated with any processing in the declaration on the other side. Then the other country also knows the size of the infokap element. Well, that makes sense. I'm just checking to see if I have these papers on me, but it turns out I don't. The infokap is not a specific Dutch phenomenon. What happens is this. There's informal capital. It has not been a policy choice to make that deductible. It's a business allocation. In my view, this arose as a result of a ruling by the Supreme Court of many years ago. That is also in line with the OECD. Nothing goes wrong on the Dutch side. It is not always on the Dutch side either, because in other countries it can be done in all kinds of ways. On one side of the border, there is therefore a business allocation of a deduction item that is nothing strange: OECD, High Council and so on, but on the other hand the information is lacking in order to be able to add it up. The exchange of information will largely eliminate these situations, i.e. in all situations where the tax system is symmetrical and therefore an addition has to be made. For countries where this addition is not part of the law, you do not have to do so, but the other country can adjust its tax system if it misses revenue. The first step is simply to make it known. Since this is such a special structure, the OECD has chosen not only to exchange when there is a ruling, but also to do so when there is no rule. We will not only do this by 2016, but with retroactive effect. This too is a very good example of the exchange of information which leads to the elimination of the benefits of this structure. You can, of course, ask the question whether it is such a good idea not to give any security in advance. Look, the fight against avoidance is not through less clarity, so not rule, but through more clarity, so exchange. The road to that is real information exchange. This is a limited number: an average of ten per year. We need to see clearly that information exchange solves this problem. Now suppose you just don't allow the deduction anymore; so we're just gonna stop doing that. In fact, that was Mr Omtzigt's question. With that, you embrace the idea of not doing any more business imputation of debt. Then we would try to solve the problem on this side of the border, where the problem is not there but where business is allocated, while on the other hand, where a lack of information does not solve the problem. I think you're really putting the ball on the wrong half of the game. As far as I am concerned, the information exchange is really central to the information folder. That is not a Dutch construct; in other countries this is also possible in many ways. I think we can say that we have properly administered this so far. For years we have not wanted to exchange this with other countries. We've all been involved in that. Now it does happen: as we speak there is exchanged. That definitely reduces the attractiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u300	Are you at the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u301	I think I have now had the info cap, but I am not yet at the end of the answer to Mr Omtzigt's questions. He also asked questions about the Correspondent, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u302	I have another question for this block "infokaprulings": how many infokaprulings are there about and how many of those rulings have been exchanged? Can this be included in the next monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u303	The report I have promised will ensure that Mr Omtzigt never has to ask these questions again, because he will then get the answer in advance. These are exactly the things I want to report. I will take this question with me and make sure that the answer comes before reporting, if we succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u304	Can the Secretary of State also say something about the reverse route: will the Netherlands be informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u305	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u306	How many cases is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u307	That's interesting, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u308	Do you think it is important to take a look at that and report to us on that? My question, of course, is this: information exchange must be a two-way street. I hear that other countries, for example Germany, are a little more reluctant in that regard. Can the Secretary of State respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u309	Yeah, but let's not do this specifically about the info cap. If we are going to talk about the exchange, let us look at the exchange behaviour of other countries in general, as well as how we process all that information. I think that broader context would be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u310	I'd like to ask the Secretary of State one more question about the info cap. I would like to return to what the State Secretary's research group has reported. It indicated that, in one case, doubts had arisen as to whether the ruling issued was still in line with the policy frameworks. Did that affect an infokapruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u311	I don't know. I'd be happy to check that out. The research group has indeed made a certain cut-out. I owe you this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u312	I wonder what exactly is being exchanged. Is there any exchange of what the Dutch Tax Administration has identified as profit, or is there also an exchange of what is made as informal capital, as a reduction in profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u313	In the most simple case, it is first indicated that there is an info-capping situation. Then the data is exchanged with which you can determine the value of the infokap construct. So this is about the size of informal capital; you can then apply a certain rate of business interest to that. It is not a question of profit in the Netherlands, because something is deducted in the Netherlands; the profits are reduced. That's business, and that's normal, but it goes wrong abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u314	Exactly. We tax Dutch profits, but we offer the possibility of reducing commercial profits through informal capital. This leads to a tax base being created abroad. The Secretary of State says: the difference between the commercial profit, so to speak, and the Dutch profit, on which tax is paid, is passed on. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u315	That difference can be calculated from the data, otherwise foreign countries will have no use for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u316	I propose that the Secretary of State should answer the last questions and that there should be further interruptions after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u317	I'm working really hard. I come to the question about the Correspondent. In my view, this is about "I shall look in Mr Omtzigt's eyes for Article 24 (4) of the CV/e.g. structure. I see him nodding. The tax treaty with the Americans is from 2004. In 2005, it was decided to terminate one specific passage for this purpose. In fact, this re-launched the CV/e.g. structure. This has also happened after a very detailed discussion of this specific operation has been held with the United States during the parliamentary debate on the tax treaty. A year later, the Secretary of State responded. There were also social noises in which this question sounded and American companies threatened to leave the Netherlands at that time. That passage was disabled at the time. This structure has now been completed. By 2020, we will be done with this, then it will no longer exist. That route has already been completed in Europe and must now be included in Dutch legislation. Then this is the end of the story. I hope that I have answered Mr Omtzigt's question. Would we still be doing this? No, I don't think so. The exchange of information on this was not exactly optimal, I would say. I'm gonna be at the permanent main house construction facility. I honestly confess that I did not understand the question and that the officials, when I asked them the question, did not understand it. I know Mr Omtzigt, so I think there is a sensible question behind it. I invite him to simply e-mail that question or to make it more formal, so that I can answer it by another way. Finally, I come to Mrs De Vries' questions. She wants me to reflect on double taxation. I would then like to link her à deux with Mr Azarkan, who has just proposed that the participation exemption be abolished. I don't feel anything like that. That is the most significant reflection on double taxation that I am currently able to produce here at almost 10:00 p.m. Mrs De Vries has also asked for rulings to be issued which are not certain whether they are correct. That is not the intention, of course. Rulings are issued within laws and regulations. It's always human work, but it's supposed to be right. Things have all been introduced, like a second pair of eyes, to make sure it doesn't go wrong. Mr. Chairman. I am through the questions and through the general argument. I apologise to my colleague, Mr Kamp, who also has important messages and has had to wait so long for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u318	I had asked another question about the amount of rulings exchanged. There are a number of countries that have very low numbers. Is that enough for other countries? Have the rulings exchanged so far also provided new insights?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u319	Those questions have both been addressed. The exchange of rulings is still so young that there is not much sense to say about its effects. It's too soon for that. Of course, it is not exactly possible to check whether all countries are doing this loyally. We've only just started. We have been delayed. It is now clear that some other countries have the same. Let's take a look at it when we can judge it. But this is certainly a point of discussion at the time when we have completed the exchange of rulings and are going to look at them in an evaluating manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u320	Then I would like to know when it will be the moment when we can say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u321	I believe that the OECD rules were exchanged at the end of this calendar year. That's a good time to see how both the exchange and the getting went and whether we already have initial insights into the processing of it. So I think that's a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u322	I think that the question I would have liked to ask has already been largely answered, but I had the impression that the Secretary of State wanted to comment on the possible willingness of other countries to give us generous information in the first place. It must not be the case that we only inform the other countries. I thought the Secretary of State wanted to say something about that, regardless of numbers but more if that gets going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u323	We absolutely wanted to be a forerunner in the exchange of rulings. We also had something to prove to the international community. We then started an experiment and made an appointment with Germany. We have said: we are going to exchange rulings with Germany before it becomes mandatory at all. I have already confessed that we did not receive one at the time, but that we did send it away. We didn't think that was a good start.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u324	That's exactly what I was afraid of. I already had that information. Isn't that a reason for taking some action in the near future, including towards other countries? Otherwise we will hear at the end of the year that we are the good boy in class. I understand the naughty boys were out of class. We'll have new naughty boys or girls, and those are the countries we're working with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u325	This is undoubtedly a point to be watched and to appeal to other countries as well. That is what happened in the case of our neighbours at the time. That has not yet led to a revolution, but this is something to keep an eye on permanently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u326	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. Two questions have not been answered. I asked for a response to the argument that tax avoidance as we are discussing it now contributes to international income inequality. I asked him whether or not he shares that conclusion. The second question was whether he shares the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation's conclusion that the Netherlands does not want to be the country that contributes to international income inequality through tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u327	Income inequality is something you can only talk about with authority if you have studied the statistics properly. I do not have that in the field of international income inequality. I know that international income inequality has been greatly reduced, but I do not have a statistically strong role to play in this. Much of the tax avoidance that we are talking about now concerns US taxes. That is not in itself the poorest country in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u328	I fully understand that the Secretary of State does not have the statistics in this area ready. Maybe he's open to information about that. I'll send it to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u329	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u330	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten asked why the NFIA, the Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency, is trying to help foreign companies lock their money tax-free through the Netherlands. Mr Van der Lee asked why we lure multinationals to avoid tax in the Netherlands. I think there's a wrong picture of the NFIA behind that. I think it would be a good idea to turn some information into that. The NFIA is not here to lure tax evaders to the Netherlands. The NFIA is there to attract foreign investment and real economic activities for the Netherlands. This is what the NFIA does with employees in offices in 17 countries worldwide. People are working there with great enthusiasm. They work around the clock to try to persuade real companies to do international business from the Netherlands. These foreign companies account for a substantial part of the economic activity in our country and therefore also for employment in our country. Then it is also about our prosperity and our ability to maintain collective facilities. I'll give you a few figures to illustrate that. 6% of all companies in the Netherlands........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As I wrote in my letter to the Chamber, these companies account for 16% of employment in the Netherlands. I am only talking about direct employment, but almost always there is indirect employment around it. These foreign companies account for 25% of the investments in the Netherlands. 36% of business turnover comes from these companies. 50% of the total import and export value of the Dutch economy comes from these companies. So that's what it's all about. The NFIA is there to convince companies from all over the world that if they want to come to Europe, they can come to the Netherlands and not to another European country. The top countries are the United States, China and Japan. The United Kingdom has recently joined. With regard to these companies, there is a fierce competition going on, because everyone wants to have employment and prosperity through foreign companies. Of course, there's a tough competition. Nevertheless, the NFIA has managed to realise 982 investment projects in the Netherlands over the last five years. Of course, information and advice had to be given and thought had to be given to it. This could almost always be done with own staff and own know-how. But exceptionally, very specialised questions are asked. If one thinks there is real profit to be made for the Netherlands, the NFIA is prepared to cover half the costs if a study needs to be carried out in order to answer those questions. So it's about answers that the NFIA itself can't give. A maximum of €25,000 has been set. In the last five years, this has occurred in 11 of the 982 cases. Then it was between €9.327 and €25,000. In 9 out of 11 cases, it has led to an investment in the Netherlands. These investments together accounted for 151 million euros and 826 additional jobs. Even more important is the possibility of doing so. You are there as NFIA and you can always answer the questions that are being asked. You can almost always do that yourself and sometimes you can do it in a different way together with the questioner, when it comes to very specialised things. That is a small part of the instrument case or the argument case that the NFIA has. We'd love to keep that available for the NFIA. The competitiveness of the Netherlands is good, but it is under pressure. The battle is getting harder. Other European countries compete with us, including the Vpb tariff and the bonus cap that applies to Europe, for which the Netherlands has a different policy. I am not complaining about this, but I am asking the Chamber, in view of the importance of employment in the Netherlands and in view of the importance of our economic growth and prosperity, not to take this instrument out of the hands of the NFIA. I would like to keep that, and I think we all have an interest in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u331	There is no MP who has argued for the abolition of the NFIA and that employment is not important. What we have indicated quite widely in the Chamber in the first term is that we do not think it is a task for the Dutch government to co-finance tax advice to foreign companies. It is really not the job of the Dutch government to collect taxpayers' money and then advise foreign companies on how to pay taxes in the Netherlands. The amounts involved are between €9,000 and €25,000. If that depends on a decision, you shouldn't step over the principle, should you? I don't understand why you're so attached to this and that you haven't heard the Chamber say, "We're just quitting."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u332	I have heard the Chamber very well, but I also understand that the Chamber has asked me questions and is also interested in my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u333	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u334	That's the answer I'd like to give. In 971 of the 982 cases we can provide all information and advice ourselves from the NFIA. In a number of cases these are specialist questions. Moreover, it does not have to be just a question of fiscal questions. In the 11 cases I mentioned, that is what it was about. Even if there are questions about the availability of qualified personnel or if an engineering study is to be carried out for an industrial company, it may be eligible. It has cost us a total of €234,000 in those five years. Billions of investments have entered the country. I'm not saying it's all because of this, but it's part of the briefcase with which the NFIA goes. This is simply something that one feels to be very meaningful. If you can come up with adequate answers to those difficult, specialist questions, where you are in tough competition with other countries, you do good business for the Netherlands. My request to the Chamber is: take this as seriously as I take it. Let us leave this part of the instrument case in the hands of the NFIA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u335	No, I don't agree with that. It is fine to say that we have highly trained staff, we have good companies and beautiful cities. That's the job, too. But funding tax advice to foreign companies like the Netherlands, while SMEs here simply have to pay for their tax advisor? There is also such a thing as justice, equal treatment and the role of the government. It is not the role of the government to finance that. There are tax advisors left, also internationally renowned. The PvdA really thinks we should stop this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u336	If a foreign company wants to come to the Netherlands, a lot of things need to be clarified. What about the place where you can settle? What about the staff you can get? What about the innovation arrangements? What about the research and development facilities? What about the possibilities of getting well into an ecosystem? What about infrastructure if you have to perform physical and non-physical activities from the Netherlands? What about any financial facilities from the provincial and local authorities? What about the fiscal aspects? We can answer a lot of these questions from the NFIA, but in 11 of those 982 cases there were very specialist questions. In these cases, we needed a study which we financed half of. Normally we finance it all ourselves and we do it ourselves, but in those very specialist questions we had to let it be done and we have taken some of the costs into account. We really do not fail SMEs with this. If we are so strong that we have so many foreign companies in the Netherlands, then these foreign companies are also part of a large network, which includes a large number of SMEs in one way or another and also benefit from the presence of these foreign companies. There is no contradiction between these foreign companies in the Netherlands and the SMEs in the Netherlands. Those interests go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u337	I understand very well that in the struggle for those companies..... D66 is also the locational climate worth a lot.... does a lot to inform them about what can be done in the Netherlands and how things are here. I understand, for example, that research is being carried out to show a car factory that many highly qualified personnel are available here in a particular region. I can imagine you're trying to seduce a company like that to come here. I can follow all that very well. But when it comes to the question of how our tax rules work, I can well imagine that the NFIA calls in the help of the Tax Administration if it does not have certain knowledge. I understand that this can happen, but that is something completely different from a tax consultancy. Then why is the NFIA not choosing the way of the Tax Administration? If I understand correctly, this is information. I have no objection to information, but I think that tax advice is something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u338	We are not, of course, waiting to engage outsiders. Everything we can do internally, we do internally. Of course, there is very frequent contact between the NFIA and the Tax Administration and other Dutch national, provincial and local organisations, governments and authorities. That's all going on, but you can't answer every specialist question of every company. These are companies that really want to know what is going on in their situation. Everyone finds themselves unique and often companies are unique. Sometimes these companies have very specialised questions to which you do not have the answer in your own home. Then you'll have to get expertise for that. I told you, we'll take care of everything we can deliver ourselves. If we can't, but if we want that question answered anyway because it's important to bring a company to us, then we have this facility. I say it to Mr Van Weyenberg once more: we are really not shy about this, but if it is necessary, we will do it. In these 11 cases we brought a company to the Netherlands nine times for a total investment of 151 million. That's why 826 people went to work. I would add that I have seen many times that a company that is being brought to the Netherlands starts with a small number of people, but that number then grows. It's just good for the Netherlands to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u339	But again, I don't understand why we have to hire outside. If that company wants clarity later, it'll go to the IRS. There it can apply for a ruling which also looks very closely at the business situation. So again, I understand the struggle very well. I understand the search for maximum information and support for companies, but what I don't understand is that a tax advisory office needs to be hired to get that information. I understand that sometimes the NFIA cannot answer a question, but at the same time I cannot imagine that the Tax Administration would not be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u340	Mr Van Weyenberg spoke of a ruling. A ruling can, of course, be discussed at a later stage. If a company has received a lot of information from the NFIA, there can still be specialist questions left. When the answer is given, a company has a set of information that allows it to decide to do it in the Netherlands. Then such a ruling indeed comes into view, but that is the next stage. I can assure Mr Van Weyenberg that we are really not shy of having things done externally. We almost always do it ourselves. I think we do it ourselves in almost 99% of cases. In just over 1% of the cases, we cannot give the requested answers. I think that's very little. In five years' time, we have done so in 11 cases, and I ask the Chamber not to get rid of these instruments. It's a tough competition. We need all the possibilities and arguments to get these companies to the Netherlands. This is an important part of the Dutch economy, our prosperity and our employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u341	Once again, this is a matter of balancing the locational environment with the maintenance of tax morale. I think the Minister has his figures in order. He also has an argument as to why he wants to maintain this instrument. In nine situations it has led to the arrival of a company in the Netherlands. Can that information then be used by those companies to apply for a ruling? I do not think it is possible to sell it to the Dutch people that we use tax money to co-finance tax advice to reduce the tax burden on foreign multinationals in the Netherlands. I don't hear anything from the Minister about that side of the matter. What does that do to tax morals? I think it would be very sensible for the Minister to put a definitive line through this instrument on this particular point, the payment of tax advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u342	"Ruling" isn't a dirty word. What happens is that a company, in this case Michael Kors from America, wants to have a European distribution centre. That is what they want in Wallonia, in Germany, in northern France, and we want it here. Then you're gonna talk to a company like that about where you have some available. Venlo's got some available. There are already many similar distribution centers in Venlo. You bring in the province of Limburg, you bring in the municipality of Venlo, you look at the staff and the infrastructure. What facilities are available in the local and provincial government? What can the Netherlands do to support such a company if it wants to innovate? What's the tax system like? In 99% of cases, we can do all that with our own people, but sometimes we can't, and we still want to have that company. Then we have to give that company business information. They come up with a specific question and we will get a good answer to that. Then we're not trying to avoid tax or do obscure things. We are then just very business, objective and neatly engaged, in a world in which there is competition, to stand up for the Dutch interest. That's what we're here for, and that's what the NFIA's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u343	Once again, you repeat the Dutch interest, but for my taste you do not address the implications for tax morals in the Netherlands, and you certainly do not address the effect that some rulings have in third countries. "Rulings" is not a dirty word, but we have seen for many years that certain types of rulings have led to the leakage of tax revenues in third countries, with serious consequences. I think it would be wise for you to listen to the majority in the Chamber and withdraw this instrument on this particular point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u344	During a debate, I listen mainly to arguments. What's the issue with these tax cases? You can say all kinds of things as a country in the world and you can say that your tax system works or something, but we here in the Netherlands also make that happen. We have a well-functioning tax administration, we have a reliable government, we have everything laid down in laws and regulations, and that means that when a company comes here and wants to know what it is like here, we are also able to make that clear in advance. In that case, the company can also base itself on the investment decision it has to take. That is something we have done in the Netherlands. We have well-qualified staff, we have good infrastructure, we have political stability, we have a well-functioning government, we have a well-functioning Tax Service, and all in all, that allows us to bring in companies, even though our tax rates are higher than in some other countries, even though we have that bonus cap and even though there are a number of other things. We're on top of it. The competition is tough. We all use the honest arguments that we can find, and this is one of them: in 1% of cases, in very specialised questions, we are able to ensure that there is an answer for the company and we pay half the costs. In five years, the total amount involved was €234,000. That's money well spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u345	That companies have come here not to pay taxes, we know that. American companies do not have to pay taxes on their profits with the right construction, because they have the money-pot-on-the-sea construction. It's not gone yet, and it could just be in an opinion. The Minister of Economic Affairs is defending his policy of selling the Netherlands to multinational companies. I've heard the same thing three times now. I can almost talk. Now the case is that the SP, the Labour Party, GroenLinks, D66, the Animal Party, the Christian Union, the CDA, the PVV, all except his own party, the VVD say: do not! Does the Minister really want to be on a collision course and repeat again why he's doing it? Or does he say, given the feelings in the Chamber, given the majority I find against me, will I no longer do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u346	I'm not going to a chamber debate like that. I am going to a parliamentary debate to listen carefully to the spokesmen, to their arguments. I have the opportunity to argue against that and I am working on that right now. The Netherlands is not a country where foreign companies go to avoid tax. Foreign companies go to the Netherlands because we are the most competitive economy in Europe. They go to the Netherlands because we are the number five exporter of goods in the world. We are the number six exporter of services in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u347	If we were so attractive, you wouldn't have to pay for advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u348	Mrs Leijten, the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u349	We have the best infrastructure, the best port infrastructure in the world. We have excellent connections with a large European hinterland. That's very attractive for companies. If a company is thinking about coming to the Netherlands, there are all kinds of things that need to be sorted out for them. We can almost all find out. Sometimes, in 11 cases in five years, some extra needs to be done, and we like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u350	If we are such an attractive country, I believe that, and I also know that the Minister of Economic Affairs is working hard to do so, it is almost impossible to explain that it is also necessary to have a multinational company which is not about start-ups to meet the advisory costs that he himself must be able to bear. That's inexplicable. Now arguments have been exchanged. It's very clear. The Minister also heard the interruptions. There's gonna be two more after this. I don't know if those spokesmen are convinced, but I don't really believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u351	Can you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u352	Now you're facing a great majority in parliament, minus your own party the VVD, Minister. Are you going to carry out the motion that is about to be filed? Are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u353	I'm not gonna let you stop me from arguing. The MPs are arguing to me. They're giving me the opportunity to argue back. While I am arguing, I must say what could happen at a next stage. No. I hope that if I explain that in almost all cases we can do it ourselves, that we must work very hard for it and that we think that this is also a small but important instrument that, if we use it, will also have real positive effects, you will not beat me out of the 151 million in investment. Why do I have to let those 826 jobs run away? I hope I don't feel like it as much as you do. We have applied this very occasionally over the past year. We've done that very responsibly. I think it is in the interests of the Netherlands, Dutch employment and Dutch prosperity that we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u354	I'm going back to the arguments. The Minister states that, on the basis of the grant of this subsidy, he was able to bring nine out of eleven companies where he had deployed them to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u355	The NFIA, I don't do that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u356	Okay, but by order of the Dutch State. Can he show that this has really depended on the use of that advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u357	No. All I can do is, looking back in files, show you how it went. We figured that out, because this is important to the Chamber. It has been published in the press and the Chamber has asked me to respond. I can tell her how many times we have applied it, what the total amount is, what ultimately came out of the trade-offs made by the companies and what that has resulted in in jobs and investment euros. However, I cannot tell the Chamber of each of these eleven companies exactly what the balance has been and how decisive this has been. The people of NFIA, who are working on these companies every day, do nothing but attract companies. When it comes down to it and they cannot provide information that a company needs from the Dutch government, they think it is important that they have an opportunity to provide it in a different way. I think that's important with them, and I'd like to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u358	I ask the question because the Minister used to make that link one-on-one: I need this and I have also crossed the line with companies. I find that we can't make that all the way through. I had a hunch that correlation wasn't one-on-one. The minister says he needs the whole basket. However, we are talking here about an amount that is really not that much for an average multinational. In fact, I think they themselves often employ fiscalists who can figure out some of those kinds of things. Then what is the trouble for such a company to just look at it for themselves, possibly with the help of the Tax Administration if there are any real questions, if on the other hand people wonder why they, as SMEs, do not get that money for tax advice and the multinational does? The minister says it's a false contradiction. But I really can't explain it to that SME guy. Is it worth it to the Minister? Is it worth it to the Minister that, for a small amount of money for a multinational, we are actually launching a very fundamental discussion about tax morals, a discussion towards all those other people who simply pay their taxes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u359	What if this was all we did? Suppose we would only spend €243,000 in five years to answer specialist questions. And suppose that all that money would go to foreign companies who were considering coming to Europe and who, as far as we are concerned, should come to the Netherlands. What if nothing was done for SMEs? Yeah, I could imagine that you wouldn't be able to explain. But this is, of course, a drop compared to everything we do for SMEs. We have a BBSO scheme in which we contribute to research and development. This scheme is 96% or 97% used by SMEs. Of the money in that scheme, 60% to 70% goes to SMEs. We have all kinds of other schemes that are very specific to SMEs. Moreover, SMEs in the Netherlands benefit greatly from the fact that so many strong companies from abroad are located in the Netherlands. They can use these companies as customers or suppliers and they can form a network with those companies. This is important for the position of these SMEs in the Netherlands and in the world. They therefore have an interest in the presence of these foreign companies in the Netherlands. I have not yet told the Chamber about the contribution of these foreign companies to research and development. A figure of 25%, 30% or 35% should be considered. Of all the research and development in the Netherlands, that percentage comes from such companies. So if we spend €243,000 in five years pulling some extra foreign companies to the Netherlands, that is also very much in the interest of SMEs. In addition, we have many other schemes for SMEs, which they are fully and rightly benefiting from. And there are very different amounts, not 10 times as many, not 100 times as many, but maybe 1,000 times as many.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u360	I see you want to interrupt again, Mrs. Schouten. But you've already interrupted twice in this round, like all the other spokesmen. So the Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u361	I had finished my speech, Mr President. That ended with the conclusion that I would like us, in the Dutch interest, to keep this instrument available. I can assure the Chamber that we will continue to do our best to answer any questions we may have with our own people and only use them in very incidental cases. Maybe I can add a little more. Multinationals are constantly being talked about here. The companies that apply for this from us are not all multinationals. And let the MPs imagine they're negotiating on behalf of a foreign company. You want to take your company to Europe. You will be drawn from Ireland, England, Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands. In all these countries, you ask questions. Answers are then given by all countries. But let's say that the Netherlands says: on one question we can't answer and figure it out for ourselves. That's just not good. It is much better to be able to say: to that one, very specialised question we cannot answer, but let us have a study done by someone who can, and we are willing to do as much as that and that. If you can say that, you have a different story to such a company, and then the chance is greater to bring such a company to the Netherlands. Let us give ourselves this and let us not deny ourselves this. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u362	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I think there is a need for a second deadline. Mrs Leijten will be the first to have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u363	Mr. Chairman. We get a whole package if it's up to the Secretary of State. We get what he's got on rulings, prototypes, concepts. We get what's withdrawn and what he turned down. We're getting information about the changing insight in the Tax Administration. I'm just suggesting that you publish what you agree to. I propose that we do so in the way that has also been agreed in Europe. I think that we are saving ourselves and the service a lot more information. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Belgium has set up an online trading database, which is accessible to everyone and which includes all the rulings issued, but which have destroyed company names and other business sensitive information;]] [[Whereas the EU Code of Conduct Group has adopted a Directive providing that the rulings applicable to other taxable persons should be published in similar situations and made accessible to other taxable persons and services;]] [[calls on the Government to publish all rulings anonymised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mismatches between tax systems, which allow multinationals to avoid tax, are avoided internationally;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is actively responding to these mismatches by issuing informal capital rotations;]] [[Whereas, moreover, the creation of these mismatches creates international tensions, especially where security is given in advance;]] [[calls on the Government to stop issuing informal capital rotations immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Article 24 (4) of the Tax Convention with the United States was repealed by a policy decision;]] [[whereas US multinationals enjoy undue competitive advantage as a result of this policy decision;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the policy decision which still approves hybrid entities and thereby restore the anti-abuse clause,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Nijboer, Mr Van Raan and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-154]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-155]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u364	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I confine myself to reading the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that rulings on informal capital provision (info caps) are often part of tax avoidance practices;]] [[noting that tax avoidance is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a plan to end rulings on informal capital provision and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that interest paid on informal capital provision is not clearly distinguished on the tax return form;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the tax form in such a way that interest paid on informal capital provision becomes clear,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the extent of tax avoidance is currently unclear, but that in any case tax arrangements have been made by the Ministry of Finance with almost 1,900 companies;]] [[calls on the Government to report periodically on the total tax reductions enjoyed by the undertakings concerned when compared with the nominal rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-157]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-158]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Leijten and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u365	Still...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u366	Is this your last motion? Because you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u367	No, two more. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tax avoidance contributes to income inequality;]] [[noting that tax avoidance affects developing countries;]] [[points out that the Netherlands does not wish to contribute to increasing national and international income disparities due to tax avoidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the multilateral instrument will only become effective if tax treaties are actually covered by the instrument;]] [[calls on the Government to include in its planned reporting the conventions with which amendments are to be covered by the instrument,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raan, Mr Azarkan, Mr Leijten, Mr Nijboer, Mr Schouten and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-160]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u368	Well, why don't you start?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u369	Allow me to make one more comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u370	No, you're really heavy over time. I give the floor to Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u371	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to report on the rulings. I think that we can really take a step towards transparency; thank you for that. I have one motion for a resolution following the interrupting debate on the Committee of Inquiry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, on the basis of the findings of the research group, the State Secretary establishes a Committee of Inquiry, consisting of tax experts from the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, who, on a sample basis, investigates the ruling practice annually and reports to the Chamber on it;]] [[Whereas this measure is taken in order to increase transparency and thus the transparency of APA/ATR practice;]] [[Whereas the Rijk Audit Service is involved in that investigation in order to ensure its robustness;]] [[Considers that the fiscalists of the Ministry, the Tax Administration and the ADR are competent and reliable, but that the independence of the Committee of Inquiry can be enhanced by making external independent experts part of the Committee of Inquiry;]] [[calls on the government to make an extreme effort to add one or more external, independent experts, for example from science, to the Committee of Inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u372	It remains for me to say that my name is also under Mr Van der Lee's motion on the subsidy for tax opinions. The Minister's arguments did not convince me. I believe that we should not use taxpayers' money in the Netherlands to finance tax advice that then reduces taxes. I wouldn't allow that, which is why my name is under the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u373	Thank you. I understand that it has been agreed that Mr Omtzigt may act on behalf of a few spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u374	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Schouten's last words. My name is also under Mr Van der Lee's motion. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. The same applies to the Minister, who introduced a novelty in a tax debate, namely the mention of a specific taxable person. I thought that was striking. On the infokap ruling, the Secretary of State was clear: The Netherlands is acting correctly by relying on business prices. However, I still have a question about that. In my opinion, the Secretary of State pointed to the example that interest is being paid too low from the Netherlands. In the Netherlands you are entitled to deduct a business, so high interest. The question then is whether abroad is taxing that fictitious high interest rate. Does it not make sense to say that if companies themselves pay too low interest rates, the interest actually paid is deductible? If a company wants to be able to deduct more interest, that company must pay that interest. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? With regard to the rulings to individuals on a penalty list, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas prior security should be given only to companies and persons complying with laws and regulations and that this should also apply to rulings already issued;]] [[Calls on the Government not to issue rulings to persons and legal persons on a penalty list or to legal persons with directors on a penalty list;]] [[also requests the Government to withdraw existing rulings to persons and legal persons on a penalty list and legal persons with directors on a penalty list within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u375	I've run out of time, but if the colleagues don't ask, I'll informally...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u376	I would like to thank Mr Omtzig for that time, because I deserved an explanation as to why the CDA voted against the motion that would upset the CV/e.g. construction last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u377	That was the Great/Grashoff motion, I think. Actually, that's kind of nice. I've just been checking on how the treatment went, along with my associate. At the time, the Secretary of State indicated that this motion could almost be perceived as a threat by diplomatic standards. I thought that was a convincing argument. So it wasn't the first operative part, because I agreed, but it was the second operative part. If I wanted to threaten you, I would do so in the field of FACTA, in all honesty. I would first like to look at how the US is going to implement the BEPS proposals before we threaten to impose sanctions. That argument also convinced the other person standing next to you at the interrupting microphone, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u378	That's a clear explanation. In future, therefore, we can expect full support from the CDA in the case of tax avoidance. That support is very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u379	Avoiding tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u380	Oh, yeah, in avoiding tax avoidance. I honestly think after all that we have not correctly assessed which country is most bothering which country and who is being a bit decent, given what Trump is allowing himself now, but well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u381	Does Mr Omtzigt still want to respond to this? That is not the case. Then there is a question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u382	Well, that's crazy. I asked a similar question about the motion tabled by Mrs Merkies and Mrs Grashoff and myself asking the cabinet not to call for a five-year delay in dealing with this directive in Brussels. That motion was also not supported by the CDA to my small disappointment. Mr Omtzigt would also come back to that in the second term. By asking this question, I will give him time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u383	I thought the motion went a little too far on that. You have never heard me speak on behalf of the CDA in favour of a long delay. But the time has to be reasonable. In the first place, however, the initiative must lie with the United States. If another country were to say to us 'change your legislation within a year and a half', it might not work either. Even if we tell the Secretary of State, it doesn't work. It is true that they have a system in the US in which you can choose whether the company is transparent or non-transparent. There is a choice system, a pick-the-box system. That's not so good. I think that's a non-wishful system. They will not be able to change that overnight, but I think that is desirable. Whether that is within two, three or four years is a matter of consideration. But if you ask me if it is desirable that this should be changed, then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u384	Clear. We had therefore included in that motion 'not to advocate substantial postponement'. So we could have justified a little delay. However, I believe that Mr Omtzigt and I are now very close to each other on that dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u385	I would like to ask Mr Omtzig's opinion on that article. He wanted to give it to me after he heard the secretary of state. The Secretary of State has also expressed an opinion on this. Can I still hear Mr Omtzigt's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u386	About what part of the article? I'd like to add an article to the list once. I had actually hoped a little bit that the Secretary of State would at a quiet moment give a written response to the specific legal history. I understand that he gave this oral reaction here, but to say immediately that this is true and that is not true. I would be happy to do that at the next debate, but that was not entirely on the agenda here. I mean, I think I'm going pretty far. I'd like to run a ministry sometime. Colleagues are throwing all sorts of motions and articles at me during the debate. I'd love to, but somewhere there's also a limit to the amount I can take, whether you believe it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u387	Do you see what that feels like now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u388	Yeah, I can tell what it feels like. Then I also took off an apology tweet to the Secretary of State, because the General Court made a small correction in the report. I apologise for that, because this has completely removed the impression from the report that there might have been unlawfulness, which could be concluded quite easily on the basis of the Court's report yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u389	I'm glad we solved that, too. If I'm right, the Secretary of State said we wouldn't be doing this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u390	Can you be brief, taking into account your colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u391	Mr Omtzigt could say that, couldn't he? Perhaps the Secretary of State would still like to respond in writing to that article.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u392	The Secretary of State has already said that we are abolishing the CV/e.g. structure for 2020; legislation is coming up. So I think it's pretty clear that we wouldn't introduce that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u393	Mr. Chairman. Before I make two motions like this, I'm going to ask two more questions. For my part, too, thank you for the commitments on transparency. We've really made some progress. I had asked a question about the phrase "for the Tax Administration, the effective tax rate is not a relevant circumstance'. That wasn't about the formal rate, it was about the effective tax rate. However, the impression was given that it is not so important how much is actually going to be paid. I would like to explain this a little bit more. I have asked the Secretary of State to give an example of a 100% business use of an info cap construction. I'd still like to receive that. Finally, I shall table the following two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government no longer to contribute with taxpayers' money to tax advice for multinational companies that they can use when submitting a ruling request,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in current tax rotation practice, the APA/ATR team regularly decides to reject tax rotation requests and that this was the conclusion in an average of 16% of the cases over the last seven years;]] [[Considering that the investigation group set up by the State Secretary itself considers that there could have been more openness to the ruling practice if it explicitly referred to the situations in which agreements had not been reached;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with other countries and to promote the extension of the system of exchange of information on tax rotations between tax administrations with the exchange of information on rejected tax rotation requests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Raan, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Schouten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-164]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Nijboer, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Raan, Mr Azarkan and Mr Schouten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-165]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u394	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the Secretary of State once again for the commitment to report comprehensively annually on the state of the rule-making practices and their policies. That's a good step. I have one motion, which concerns the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors once issued a report on the ruling practices. I think it is important that this happens again at some point. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable that the tax administration's ruling practice should be transparent;]] [[Whereas it is important that the ruling practice is also regularly monitored by external parties;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the General Court of Auditors, whether it is willing and able to re-execute the tax avoidance investigation carried out in 2014, in 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u395	I too have signed Mr Van der Lee's motion. I understand very well that companies are being helped and advised to convince them to settle in the Netherlands in this way if they are looking for a location, but I simply find it undesirable in the discussion about the rulings to pay tax offices for the information that those companies later go to the Tax Administration with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u396	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that differences between tax systems are often abused so that companies do not pay taxes anywhere;]] [[whereas large companies, like the baker on the corner, are simply obliged to pay taxes;]] [[considers that the Tax Administration should act against tax avoidance and should certainly not participate in it;]] [[Whereas information on rulings is being exchanged with more and more countries;]] [[calls on the Government to stop issuing advance security immediately on structures that could lead to a tax vacuum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Leijten and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-167]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u397	Mr Van der Lee tabled a motion on the financing of the tax opinion. That motion is only directed at rulings. I believe that this should not even happen. I will certainly support the motion, but I find it too weak. Minister Kamp said he's standing there to defend the policy, and the implication was a little bit that the Chamber doesn't listen. On the other hand, I do not have the impression that Minister Kamp listened very carefully to the Chamber, even though we have put forward arguments. Now it's physically depicted, because he's not there, but I'm going to file this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the public sector is financed by tax revenue;]] [[calls on the Government to stop financing tax advice for foreign companies immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u398	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Secretary of State for the way in which he meets the wishes of the Chamber, and also of the VVD, to give more insight into the rulings. We await the proposals for this, but that certainly looks good as far as I am concerned. I always get a little sad from such a debate. It is about a lot of things, but it is not really about jobs and jobs and not about economic growth, and I personally regret that. I think we should look at that, too. I still have an answer to Mrs Schouten's question as to what we think of this proposal. I had hoped that we would all actually come down again. I don't think that worked. We are particularly looking at whether the measures contribute to what we stand for, and that is also a good locational environment, because we want to have jobs for people in the country. We are looking at what kind of investment this requires and what that generates for jobs in the Netherlands, but also for tax revenues. So we look at it with a blind eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u399	This implies that all of us are not sober, but I want to fight that. The criterion for what you're doing, apparently, is as long as it provides jobs. It's a bit of a lame comparison I'm going to make, I'm sure I'll warn you about that, but I always hear the VVD screaming, for example, that our windmills shouldn't be working on subsidies. Those windmills are being built and that creates a lot of jobs, so you would say: top. They also contribute to the objectives that we must meet. There's always a moral weighting, I'm just saying. You give a grant for a certain purpose and then you look at the goal. The aim here may indeed be to create jobs, but the aim is also to see how taxes can be designed as kindly as possible for these companies. I ask again the question I asked at the beginning: how can Mrs De Vries justify such a practice if all the other hard-working Dutch people do not get that gesture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u400	That is indeed a very lame comparison. That is why I have to say quite frankly that I am a little saddened by this kind of debate. We stand as a VVD for a good locational climate. That really doesn't mean that it's all at the expense of everything. I look at the investments and what they contribute. The Minister also made it clear that it is not the aim to reduce taxes. I think that is an important point. Then I will also look at what the Netherlands has to offer. I am also looking at those jobs for the Dutch; those jobs that will benefit many SMEs in the future. We also do a lot of things for SMEs. Then I'll make a different weighing than you. I'm fine with you making that weighting, but that's not the weighting we're making. I also think that we should put it in perspective for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u401	All this suggests that I am not putting it in perspective and that we are surreal in this Chamber. It's about pursuing a goal, whether all means are allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u402	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u403	Then we're already here. So you're going to make a weighting which means you're going to use to achieve a certain goal. If a company says that it does not want to comply with the environmental rules or with the Arbo legislation and that it does want to settle here, then we also say: sorry, we are not participating, because we have a number of rules in this country. It is therefore a question of assessing whether it is fair to grant subsidies in this situation, to provide tax advice, while other people and other companies are not getting start-ups,zzp'ers, you name it all. I still do not understand why, according to the VVD, that is justified in this case, but not in all the other cases. The Minister even pointed out that he could not make it clear that the tax advice leads one-on-one to these companies coming here. Explain it to me one more time or perhaps explain it to me again for that SME or thatzzp'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u404	Mrs Schouten is really suggesting that this is intended to break the law. I think that's a very strange insinuation. She just did that by saying: if a company wants to break environmental rules, do you think that's okay? No, of course I'm not okay with that. Of course I'm not okay with that. This is about whether you want to attract jobs. This is a small element that plays a role in this. I think the equation is really false. She says that we do not do this for start-ups, but for start-ups we do very different things. At the time of the previous treatment of the Tax Plan, I proposed to give them a tax advantage regarding the payment of shares. Mrs Schouten should not raise that false contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u405	I'm gonna stick to false contradictions. The moral argument has been put forward by Mrs Schouten, but now the economic side. Mrs De Vries blames us for not being aware of real jobs. Responsible economists, also outside the Netherlands, from the OECD, the IMF and the World Bank, have all shown very convincingly that the extent to which tax avoidance has been facilitated has not even undermined economic growth anywhere in the world. Mrs De Vries looks too much with microeconomic glasses at the direct consequences of a given investment. It should look at the overall impact of over-facilitating tax avoidance. I don't hear enough about that. It is precisely this economic reason that is also an important motive for many parties to impose stricter rules in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u406	I really wonder if I should talk about an amount of €25,000, where the NFIA can answer questions that a company asks. I think it is a really bad contradiction which Mr Van der Lee is now putting forward, because he says that we are only looking at the location climate. There has never been a cabinet that has done so much against tax avoidance and tax evasion as this cabinet, which is part of the VVD. It was decided to implement a package of measures that Mr Van der Lee might not even dream of six or seven years ago. Let these measures do their job. Let's see if they're effective measures. Let us look at the consequences for Dutch jobs and the Dutch locational climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u407	In this case, the better not to be the enemy of good. I would like to admit that significant steps have been taken over the last three years, certainly under the leadership of the Secretary of State and the Minister. However, I am coming to the interrupting microphone because Mrs De Vries is taking the measure of us, as if we were unaware of the positive economic aspects which are linked to a more stringent approach in this area. Mrs De Vries seeks and enlarges a contradiction, while I think we have had a rather constructive debate. The Secretary of State himself has moved on the issue of transparency. At one point, we are drawing a line, and I think that is quite right. It's small money, but it's a point that hits tax morale.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u408	I believe that the VVD has also asked for more transparency on rulings. That's because we think rulings are important. They are also important for the security in advance. We are also pleased that the Secretary of State has made a number of commitments on this matter. I really think you should put this in perspective, too. We are making a different assessment. As far as I'm concerned, everyone can make a different assessment, but I think you should look at this as well. Once again, the Minister has indicated that it is not the intention to tax this, but that it is about answering questions from companies interested in the Netherlands as a location and creating real jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u409	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Before we continue with the government's response, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u410	The Secretary of State has the floor again. He will also answer the questions to the Minister and respond to the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u411	Mr. Chairman. In my view, there are two further questions from the previous deadline to which I had promised an answer. A few new questions have also been asked. I'll start with that and then move on to the motions. There was a question from Mr Omtzigt, but I see he is not here now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u412	I am sure that Mr Omtzigt's group colleague will be interested in your reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u413	Mr Omtzigt asked me: tell me when the Chamber was informed about the info-kap construct. Let me say first of all that we can see from the fact that at least two Members, Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzig, were surprised by information from a WED request, that the provision of information to the Chamber should be improved. At the same time, I would like to contradict Mr Omtzigt's great words by saying that I do not feel too guilty if I do not send to the Chamber a note which I have made for my own training and which contains nothing new. But it has to be better. I shall now answer his question, because there is an answer, even if that is not very convincing. First of all, since 1957 there has been a flow of case law on the information cap of the Supreme Court. Secondly, the infokap is explicitly dealt with in a Kamerbrief and a management report of the Tax Administration from 2000. In the reply of Parliamentary questions dated 29-4-2016, the infokap is also discussed in detail. Are we certain that this was enough? Apparently not. But today we have formulated our new intentions. Mr Van der Lee asked if the ruling criticized by the research group saw the info cap. I thought that this question was simple and that it was also legitimate to answer this question. But in all honesty: the chairman of the research group, who was approached with this question, thought differently. Let me just say as it is: he saw a certain impairment of the integrity of the research group. He said that the group did this independently, made its own choices and reported what it wanted to report on that. In his view, further information would put the integrity of the research group at a disadvantage. Let me put it this way: in that case I choose to let it go for a while, not to want to fully understand what this is all about. I trust that in the future we will be able to shape this type of research and that we will all be able to build on the trust that it has been done properly. We will then be able to read in the annual reports the further experiences and news items around the info cap. I will leave it at that, because I believe that this should be respected. Mr Omtzigt had another question. He said it's about informal capital, that the company itself doesn't choose to charge interest. So they choose to do so themselves, so why is it possible to deduct allocated interest in the Netherlands? Why wouldn't you just do nothing because people don't charge themselves? Well, there is a very good reason for that: as early as 1957, the Supreme Court established that it would be an unbusinessable treatment of wealth. When one begins to treat wealth and capital flows in a non-business manner, it can be done in all kinds of directions, including in ways that make oneself better. It is also OECD policy to attribute this to business. The error must therefore be found not on this side of the border, but on the other side of the border. For this purpose, the exchange of information shall be carried out. That is the answer to this question. Mr Van der Lee has asked me again to explain why the tariff is not relevant. The nominal rate is not adjusted at all, because that is not what the rulings are about. They should not do that either; perhaps in a single country they should, but not with us. The weighted average rate, or the effective rate, may be an interesting one, but it does not affect the issuing of a ruling, as a ruling states what is allowed under the law. This doesn't remind anyone of a legal possibility because you apparently have a view of what the effective rate does. We use the effective rate in another way to think about taxation; not at individual level and not for issuing rulings. Mr Van der Lee also asked if I could give an example of a 100% business use of an info cap. An info cap in its bad form, in which taxes are therefore avoided, is of course explicitly commercial on one side of the border and on the other side of the border is not explicit. So that example doesn't qualify. There can be an explicit informal flow of capital, which is treated in business on this side of the border and on the other hand. That is, of course, the form we will see when we start exchanging information. There's nothing wrong with that. A large number of motions have been tabled. I am going to try to work through that with speed, but also with respect for the proposers, who always have a lot of thinking in it. In her motion, Mrs Leijten put forward a number of points. 154 for publishing the rulings anonymised, and all of them. I've motivated why I don't feel that way and why I think the other one works very well. Our tax practice differs in such a way from that of Belgium, that it is precisely by showing us anonymised examples or models per species that could work very well. I advise against this motion. In her motion in part No. 155 calls on Mrs Leijten to stop issuing informal capital rotations immediately. This point has also been mentioned in the debate. I say that clarity is not a way to put an end to this; only clarity can do that. We need to find other ways to do this; no, they've already been found. Stopping the rule is pure symbolism. I advise against this motion. In the Leijten motion on part No. 156 calls on the government to withdraw the policy decision which still approves hybrid entities and thus restore the anti-abuse clause. That is a logical motion by Mrs Leijten, but it will have to be done in a different way. Materially this ends by 2020. I have explained to Mr Van der Lee why I believe that this time limit can be defended. I suggest we leave it at that. In the end, Mrs Leijten achieves exactly what she wants to achieve, only that will happen later than she wants possible, namely by 2020. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u414	500 billion dollars a year in profits from American multinationals are stored at sea via the Netherlands; no tax is paid on this. And that will happen in 2018 and 2019. That's 1,000 billion! You accept that by rejecting this motion for a moment. I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u415	I don't necessarily subscribe to the numbers, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u416	Mrs Leijten has the floor. Would you like to ask your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u417	Yeah, what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u418	Rejecting this motion is 1,000 billion profits at sea stables. There is no tax paid in the Netherlands and it is so designed that it does not have to be paid in the United States. And then you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u419	I'm not saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u420	And then the Secretary of State says that my wish is met by introducing it in 2020, not by banning this construction and by adapting this directive, but by saying: there is a tax to be paid somewhere. That's something else. It's not the same. Can you give a different motivation for keeping the anti-abuse clause out of this trade agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u421	We agreed at European level to put an end to this by 2020. Then, in my view, this particular clause has become meaningless. I have explained very clearly to Mr Van der Lee why we have taken a certain amount of time to put an end to this type of construction. This is what has been agreed at European level. That's, as far as I'm concerned, water under the bridge. This construction, made famous in tax circles, will disappear. In the motion in part No. 157 the Government is invited to come forward with a plan to end rulings on informal capital provision and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. That plan of action has already been implemented. We have discussed this in detail at OECD level. There was talk of exchange of information at two levels, both for the rulings and for the non-rulings. As a result, the advantages of this construction have largely disappeared. I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 158 the government is requested to amend the tax form. I have already said that I do not feel very strongly about redesigning tax forms at this meeting. The 2016 declaration already contains the demand, not just for interest. As a result, the Tax Administration will be able to exchange the necessary information and act on the new understanding. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 159 the Government is invited to report periodically on the total tax reductions enjoyed by the companies concerned compared to the nominal rates. It may mean: as a result of the ruling. Then the number is zero. It may mean that we would have to compare the nominal with the effective rate per company that happens to have a ruling. If it is right, the difference between those two is, of course, explained by perfectly legitimate matters, such as the use of a deduction option................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is in the second case a virtually unfeasible exercise and in the first case a pointless exercise. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 159. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 160 which states that the Netherlands does not wish to contribute to increasing national and international income disparities due to tax avoidance. The motives for combating tax avoidance cannot be linked one-on-one to income inequality. Even if combating tax avoidance would lead to greater inequality, I would like to combat this tax avoidance. I want to separate that from income issues at national or international level. That is not what this discussion is about. As far as I am concerned, this is an overly political statement on something that is simply a business issue, namely the fight against unintentional avoidance. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 160. In the motion in part No. 161 the government is invited to include in its planned reporting the conventions with which amendments are to be covered by the instrument. That means the MLI. There will be a bill on the effects of the signing of the MLI by the Netherlands. That process shall include a report, but not the report referred to in the motion. I admit that there is an insight into the things that are asked for in the motion, but I do not recommend the motion as it has now been put forward. This is a different reporting time. If those words can still change, I'd be happy to change them. Then Mr Van Raan has the promise in his pocket. Then it will also be a bit of a meaningless exercise, in which I honour the author in his desire for the relevant information. In the motion in part No. 162 the government is invited to make an extreme effort to add independent experts to the Committee of Inquiry. I have shown my willingness to do so, should it become apparent after the first report that it is insufficient. That's what I'm gonna keep going. But this motion sees specifically on timing now. Let me say that on the one hand I think that Mrs Schouten has strong arguments for this. On the other hand, I have been persuaded that this is not practical and easy to implement. I hold on to my earlier commitment, but do advise against this motion in part No. 162. In the motion Omtzitt/Leijten in part No. 163 two requests are combined. The motion states that "the government does not request rulings to be given to persons and legal persons on a list of penalties'. That's state-of-the-art policy. That was also discussed in the debate. As far as I am concerned, it does not need to be underlined, but I cannot oppose it either. The motion also calls on the government to withdraw existing rulings. There has been some electronic discussion about this. I would like to say that I have no objection to it. I would like to leave the motion to the House's judgement on this point, but I would like to add the following. The motion says "within a month," but it's all human work. We don't sit at the IRS all day looking at international penalty lists. I want to ensure in a normal way that the security lapses in this kind of case, but it is a bit of practice here, because we get a whole job. I should like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u422	Of course it is a lot of work to pass those 1,100 appointments, but the penalty list is not that explosive in relation to the 1,100. I understand it may not be possible in a month, but can we agree that it will be done as soon as possible? If it becomes clear that someone who is on the penalty list through such a construction in the Netherlands has an advantage or has access to funds that he should not have at his disposal, we will also be completely in our shirt. I can tell the Secretary of State that we, as proposers, can give some flexibility in time. But that's not a pass to leave this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u423	Mrs Leijten may be surprised, but I agree with her in her words, both with the recitals and with the conclusion and with the suggestion. That's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u424	This is not my motion and I should have put the question to the authors. There is talk of the penalty list. Is there one set penalty list? It is useful to know, because there may be a lot of penalty lists in circulation. I'm not sure which penalty list to look at. If the penalty list simply exists and if the Secretary of State knows which penalty list that is, I'd be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u425	It has therefore been found that the motion contains a list of penalties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u426	The people who judged on this matter thought that there were different footholds and clamps to indicate, but that they were not in exposing penalty lists. But if you ask me now how many penalty lists there are, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u427	It is of some importance. When certain countries that we do not trust very much, so to speak, draw up penalty lists and say: on this list of sanctions Pietje, Klaasje...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u428	Shall we say that these are sanction lists recognised by the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u429	I would like to say to Mrs Schouten: if people are on a penalty list, for example, banks should not allow those individuals to open bank accounts. So lists are already being worked on. Those are the lists we're talking about. That could be 10 or 20; I don't know exactly. It'll be more than one, but it's already working on it. So you can quickly find out which people are on different lists, because financial institutions also have to work with them. It's about war criminals and criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u430	I feel like everybody's so agreed on this. I'm asking the Secretary of State to move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u431	We've been talking about penalty lists much longer than we expected. For the Acts I say that I can read this motion in such a way that it says 'on sanction lists recognized by the Netherlands' and that 'within one month' is reasonably changed to 'as soon as possible'. Then I move on to the motion-Van der Lee c.s. in piece No. 164. It calls on the government to stop paying taxes... Oh, that's this motion. Mr Kamp has made a whole speech on this. I must discourage this motion on behalf of the cabinet. In the motion-Van der Lee c.s. in piece No. 165 the government is invited to promote, in consultation with other countries, the extension of the system to exchange information. No, my commitment was to include the rejected tax rotation requests, both at the level of statistical information and as regards the reasons for rejection, in the reporting. In addition, I have also promised to report on new trends in this area. But I don't think this exchange makes any sense. We should not be spoiling tax authorities with information that they can't do anything with. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u432	This motion is separate from reporting. It is purely about the exchange of information between services. However, I can imagine that it could be very useful if the rejection of certain requests and the reasons for them were exchanged. Couldn't you at least have a conversation with other services about whether they think that's useful before you advise this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u433	That conversation took place at length. There has, of course, been a very wide-ranging multilateral discussion of the whole dimension of the exchange of rulings between tax administrations. It hasn't been decided here. That conversation was over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u434	We can always make new conversations. The request is whether you would like to enter into a specific discussion on this matter. I think that's worth it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u435	I'd say the conversation about that has already ended. I don't want to reopen that conversation. In the Van Weyenberg/Schouten motion on part No. 166 the Government is invited to enter into consultation with the General Court of Auditors. I would like to have that consultation, but I would like to be able to consider whether the consultation can be less wide-ranging than it was then. It has taken on a great deal, including the capacity of the General Court. I can imagine that we will make it more specific and that I will see with the General Court where it can have the greatest added value. After all, I gave the Chamber an update of the ruling typologies. I've been researching what the ruling practice looks like now. I turned that off in the last quarter of 2016. We have now agreed to carry out an annual test. But what's next? A motion stating: you must investigate it. Let us keep it concise and manageable. So I would like to see the motion as a policy support, but I would like to say in advance that it must be useful. It shouldn't be symbolism. It must contribute to something, in consultation with the General Court. If I may add that, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u436	Normally I'm always for things that aren't useful and for total symbolism, but for once I agree with the Secretary of State. I would like to leave the form to the Court of Auditors, if it is prepared to investigate. I am concerned that I consider an external review to be useful a few years later. I'm not asking for an exact repeat of the previous investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u437	Clear. Then we have dealt with this motion. The author of the Nijboer c.s. motion in piece No. 167 believes that the issue of advance security should be stopped immediately on structures which could lead to a tax vacuum. I would say that stopping giving out security in advance also gives a vacuum of clarity and not just a vacuum of taxation. We have discussed this at length. I think stopping with certainty doesn't contribute to a solution in advance. The exchange of information leads to the cessation of tax avoidance and sometimes the ruling leads to an exchange of information. So I advise against this motion. The Nijboer/Leijten motion in part No. 168 has actually already been dealt with. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-8.u438	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber.
