ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. Since this is a 30-member debate, Members have three minutes' speaking time. The debate has been requested by Mrs Ouwehand. It will therefore be the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Man is a strange creature. We can do an incredible amount, but we don't have such a great talent for protecting what's really important to us. Yes, I can, as long as there's no practical inconvenience, because then we'll get right back to it. One of the illustrations of this peculiarity of man is the climate debate. This Secretary of State, whom I consider to be very talented, has done a good job in Paris, where a climate agreement has been concluded. A national climate summit has been organised. What she said there was about a love letter to the climate approach. The thrust of her speech was about everything for the climate. That is something that is taken from my heart, but if it becomes real and if we really have to do something, that old human reflex of fear of change and for practical discomfort will come up again. I would like to mention two messages: the Dutch emissions of methane are higher than previously thought, which is very annoying, because methane is an aggressive and strong greenhouse gas emissions and CO emissions have generally increased in the Netherlands. Then the question is, what are we going to do? Do we continue on the line of: everything on everything for the climate? Or are we falling back on the objections because of the practical inconvenience? The Secretary of State has written a letter on the differences between measured and calculated methane emissions. She says, "That's what we're gonna go after, we're gonna find out and the models need to be verified." That's right. It also says that it must first be clear whether the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is not on track. That's what the Party for Animals thinks is dangerous. Is that really so wise? Is that everything for the climate? And if it turns out that it wasn't enough, can we still comply with the climate judgment of 25% less greenhouse gases compared to 1990 in 2020? That's three years from now. If we look more closely at methane, we should also note that the method used by the cabinet today, like all the other countries in the climate agreement, means that we calculate methane emissions over a period of 100 years. We'll smear it out in 100 years. If you look at it in 20 years, which makes much more sense for methane, because it has a short-term effect, emissions are 86 times as strong as those of CO. And let agriculture be the main cause of methane emissions. We are talking about 50%, 80% of which are cattle. As far as we are concerned, the Secretary of State must answer two questions. Is it prepared to use the 20-year model from the precautionary principle, in addition to the 100-year method for calculating CO equivalents? And is it prepared to impose on those great polluters of methane, agriculture and cattle farming the goals they deserve in view of their contribution to climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u3	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kröger, who has the honour to say that it is her maiden speech. Members know that they are not allowed to interrupt her, but they are allowed to celebrate the party with her. It's always a very special moment. All the attention is to you, Mrs Kröger. First of all, you have the floor. Then I'll suspend the meeting to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u4	Madam President. What is the difference between 1.5°C and 2°C temperature increase? It seems marginal, but the climate impact of that half degree is enormous: more chance of extreme weather, less drinking water, more diseases and drought and more people fleeing worldwide. I saw at close range how vulnerable climate change makes our planet. For years I worked in Indonesia to protect tropical rainforests. I was there two years ago when the country was hit by massive forest fires. These forest fires show us what awaits us if climate change continues. Ecosystems are becoming vulnerable and we will be affected more often by so-called natural disasters. Anyway, I also know that the apocalyptic analyses on climate change are crippling. The messages are so alarming that they evoke an instinctive urge to deny them. We'd rather look away. Scientific models with probability rates offer room for reassuring climate doubt. And so we are talking in the climate debate without a glance or blush about the 50% chance that coral reefs will die and that millions of people will be affected by extreme drought or, yesterday, that we will lose the Wadden. We play Russian roulette with the future of the planet if we wait and push forward real solutions in the long term. If there is one problem that suffers from the tendency of politics to focus on the short term, then it is climate change. Preventing climate change requires immediate action on the basis of the precautionary principle. We will have to rise above ourselves and our short-term perspective for a society and an economy that remains within the ecological limits of our planet. Three things are needed for this. We need courage and ambition to dare to take measures that will cost us. These measures may not be popular right now. Solidarity is needed with our children and grandchildren and with the poor at home and abroad, who are particularly vulnerable to climate change and its costs. And good research is needed to take the right measures and to explain the need for them properly. The need for good research is the reason why we are having this debate with each other today. Recent measurements show that the emissions of the most powerful greenhouse gas methane in the Netherlands appear to be much higher than the government has been expecting for years. The government works with calculation models that differ greatly from these recent measurements. This seems to be due to the lack of investment in good research in recent years to map methane emissions. Is this true? Agriculture, leaking gas and landfill are the three main sources of methane emissions. What level of emissions should the Netherlands aim to keep the 1.5°C in range? What package of measures does this include? My final question is how to strengthen the research on emissions so that we do not again face these kinds of surprises in the future and so that we have a solid study that can serve as a basis for an ambitious and inclusive climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u5	If I hadn't mentioned it, no one would have known it was the first time you spoke. I am going to congratulate you first and ask you to sit in front of the speaker so that the other Members can also congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u6	After this short, cheerful suspension, we continue the debate. I inform the Chamber that unfortunately Mrs Van Veldhoven will arrive a little later. It will therefore be the last speaker. This means that the list of speakers will be amended and Mrs Beckerman will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, together with ROOD, the youth organization of the SP, I took action against Shell science. We took action for independent science. This is an essential point for the SP and its young people. We know too little and what we know is too often coloured. This is also reflected in the article by the Correspondent on which this debate is about. The Correspondent states that methane emissions in the Netherlands are structurally higher than is officially stated. It shows that methane emissions are between a quarter and a half times higher than is expected from current estimates. Global warming, according to The Correspondent, would be 25% due to methane emissions. Researchers measuring actual methane emissions are structurally struggling with too low budgets. The model calculations are largely based on wet fingering. The official reports of the Dutch government can ultimately be traced back to figures collected by companies like Shell. That raises many questions and many of them have already been asked by the Party for Animals and GroenLinks. So I would like to confine myself now to the extraction of gas and the peat meadows in particular. Measuring is knowing. What does this discrepancy mean between the calculations used and the recent measurement data? How far away are we really from the climate targets? Is it true that the data on CO emissions are correct? Because they also appear to be higher than originally thought. Then it's about the gas extraction. It is often said that gas is a transition fuel. And that's painful for Groningen. But it's also a very vague claim, a black box. How much methane is released in gas extraction and how much methane is leaking out of our gas lines? Will State supervision of the Mines actually measure emissions in the coming year? This is about time, as the current models are based on calculations from the 1990s. What also releases greenhouse gases is the continuous sinking of peat meadows. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Smaling motion for a resolution calling for the inclusion of these areas in climate policy? As far as the SP is concerned, it is now time for a clear climate policy, and this requires genuinely independent research. No Shell science, really independent science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u8	I can now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst, who will speak on behalf of the PVV. Also for him, it's his maiden speech in this house. The colleagues are already moving in to celebrate the party with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands will emit much more of the greenhouse gas methane than is claimed by the government on the basis of models. The PVV has always been the only party to question climate models. See us right here. Because if models can't even predict how much methane we emit this year, how can they predict how much the Earth has warmed up in the year 2100? Anyone who has a little common sense knows that this is not possible, but in this room it's like in a mosque full of IS supporters claiming that Allah doesn't exist. When you make critical comments about the usefulness and necessity of climate policy, you are figuratively reduced. This applies not only to politicians, but also to scientists, journalists and professors. It is therefore not surprising that 90 professors choose eggs for their money and argue for the preservation of their own jobs. The fact that this will cost the Dutch citizen 200 billion is ridiculous, but no problem for the Netherlands on the left. We have all read that the climate text for the coalition agreement would be ready. From the VVD to GroenLinks it is okay to impose additional taxes on the Dutch citizen. From charging to higher energy taxes and more subsidies for windmills, resulting in 0.000045 degrees less global warming in the year 2100. I repeat, 0.000045 degrees less global warming in the year 2100. This is according to the Secretary of State's model, but she could be a thousandth degree wrong. Moreover, all of these investments by the Netherlands to counter the warming are destroyed in a blow by the fact that there is a new president in the United States, who puts his own population first and does not want to waste billions on climate crap. The Paris agreement can go into the trash. The Secretary of State does not seem to want to face up to this new reality and intends to hold a so-called resistance conference in the United States against President Trump's climate policy. We were able to read this in the NRC. That's right, that's how I'm asking the Secretary of State. Does it also have the approval of the rest of the cabinet? The PVV finds this absurd and an insult to the American President and his 60 million voters. I therefore urge the Secretary of State not to organise a so-called resistance conference in the United States. With her climate policy, she has done enough damage in the Netherlands. On top of that, creating a diplomatic riot with one of our most important trading partners is totally undesirable. If the Secretary of State wishes to campaign against a democratically elected Head of State if necessary, I suggest that she join the public service broadcasting or Greenpeace after she resigns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr Van Aalst. You stood there today with a clear message. I'm gonna be the first to congratulate you. After that, I'll let your colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u11	After another happy suspension, I can give the floor to Mrs Agnes Mulder of the CDA for her contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. The difference between the models and the actual methane emissions in the measurements is large. ECN's measurement expert also states that methane emissions are falling, but are less pronounced than the model calculations. The question then is to what extent the models represent reality. I would ask the Secretary of State if this reality can be taken into account in models. In any case, it seems to me that further research is needed at this stage to determine the causes of the differences between models and measurements. Models are the basis for our government policy and so it is important that they are right and approach reality as best they can. The CDA would like to know from the Secretary of State to what extent it is possible to develop best practices for calculation methods of companies of their own emissions. What agency in the Netherlands is involved in making these calculations? Are the calculations of methane emissions from the oil and gas industries in the Netherlands made on the basis of international models? Are these models good enough to really say something about the Dutch situation? We would like to receive an explanation from the Secretary of State. So much for my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u13	I have two questions. In my speech, I said that the way we look at emissions and spread them in 100 years' time is useful for the long term, but methane is precisely a greenhouse gas that works in the short term. In addition to this 100-year method, does the CDA also feel like developing a model in which you look at the effects of, for example, greenhouse gases as methane for the short term? I know it is sensitive, but shouldn't agriculture, which is responsible for half of methane emissions and which is now outside the climate targets, also contribute to tackling climate change as far as the CDA is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u14	One of the few sectors in the Netherlands that has achieved the CO reduction target is the agricultural and horticultural sector. That can even be confirmed by Mrs Ouwehand here in this Chamber. We can look at each other in an innovative way which way we can go. I think farmers themselves are working very hard on that. It is certainly not the CDA's intention to kill our farmers and then import meat from farmers who take it less closely with sustainability, while our farmers pay attention to it. We must not carry water to the sea. That seems like a very bad plan to us. Then there is Mrs Ouwehand's first question. I think it's important that you can compare it internationally. If we are going to do everything on our island Holland on our own, we will not bring about an improvement worldwide. I am curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State and I would like to hear that measures are being taken internationally. Otherwise, we're not doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u15	To clarify a possible misunderstanding: I certainly do not advocate abolishing the method that we all use internationally, but you could also take a look at the short-term effects. We still hear what the Secretary of State has to say about this. On agriculture, the following. It is true that, because of the energy agreement, greenhouse horticulture does indeed contribute to the objectives set.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u16	Beautiful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u17	Yeah, that's beautiful. I would like to see Mrs Mulder in a few years' time just as proud of that part of agriculture which does not yet have any objective and which I believe he should also contribute to tackling climate change. If we can do it for greenhouse horticulture, must we not do it for the rest of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u18	You have to look at the whole thing and never just at individual sectors. We want to see how all of us can make Paris well, without imposing on our inhabitants and businesses things that they cannot do well with, so that we might turn our backs on sectors. That's not what the CDA stands for. We want to see how we can achieve the Paris climate agreement in a good, innovative and creative way. That's what the CDA wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. Methane is a very strong greenhouse gas and is therefore included in the measurements and calculations in the Netherlands. Methane is also complex, because there are many uncertainties when measuring these emissions. The Secretary of State referred to it in her letter: what is natural and what is man-made? El Niño plays a role. In any case, the origin is not always easily traceable. Calculations and measurements are done by the RIVM and the VVD believes that we should be able to trust that the calculations and measurements are done as well as possible, because measurement is known. The RIVM is doing its best to do it as well as possible and I have confidence in that. If we can't rely on that anymore, the end is gone! The VVD also wants to have as pure data as possible. The Secretary of State indicated earlier in reply to oral questions that if it appears that actual measurements do not correspond to the models, this should be further examined. The VVD agrees. Further research is needed and there must always be scientific support, at least as pure as possible. We need to get the facts straight: what about methane emissions? Is there a clear difference between models and measurements in this case? If that's the case, what exactly is the cause? Business models and data are also important. If they vary enormously, you must also dare to adapt those models. If it turns out to be different, we may be faced with an even greater task than the enormous task already ahead. However, if it turns out that methane emissions in the Netherlands are higher than the official reports, then of course there is a good chance that this will also apply to other countries. After all, we do it in about the same way. In fact, I think we're doing better because all our numbers are validated. If that is the case, if we do better than other countries, then this problem also arises in those other countries, and that is why I am in favour of a European approach in this regard. Well, we're gonna have to work on that. The VVD is my disclaimer and will always keep an eye on who's paying the bill and what the consequences are for a sector, business, investment and disinvestment, and jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u20	Of course, the VVD and the Secretary of State are right when they say you have to validate models. That is indeed the best way. However, there is also a downside to the decision to wait until that has happened. Indeed, we already have strong indications that this could be a bigger task. I just want to tell the VVD what that would mean for companies and sectors that we have spared on the basis of outdated models. This would mean that there would be an additional task and valuable time was wasted. These days, companies would like to be able to anticipate these measures. How does the VVD see that weighting?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u21	I do not share your view that there would be huge differences. In this debate, you base yourself on the own investigation of the Correspondent, who interviewed a number of people very briefly. For the time being, I am relying on the data from the RIVM, because I have no reason to doubt its expertise and expertise. I also see that the models used by RIVM are based on the measurements made in two places in the Netherlands and on data provided. That model shall be validated and approved every year. I attach more importance to this than to this article from one source that has carried out research itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u22	The VVD thus avoids the point that still needs to be corrected for companies is not very funny. I would like to remind Mr Dijkstra of similar arguments about dairy farming, because we can all see what major problems this sector is in. After all, the goals must be met. I just want to tell the VVD that that should also be part of the consideration. What is the perspective that you can offer all these sectors in the longer term? Waiting until we really can't get out of action isn't funny for business either. These measures must also be stricter than we can now foresee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u23	I don't share the view that you need to change the trap. Every year we measure and calculate emissions. On that basis, we adapt the models. I'm assuming RIVM's records. I want us to measure and know exactly what the data is. I am also convinced by this article that further research is possible. If that is the case, we must do so because we must not close our eyes. There are a lot of uncertainties and the letter is very clear about those uncertainties. For example, climate and El Niño are mentioned, but it is also the question of what the impact of livestock farming is, say human emissions, and natural resources. Animal husbandry accounts for 13% of the equivalent in CO and that means that you should not overdo it. I just heard you mention 51%. I'll recognize that figure, because it's from the NRC's fact check. But it's been knocked down. Your figures must be good! I take as my starting point the real figures of the RIVM, an institute that has been specifically able to conduct research, and the data made available by the Secretary of State. Again, we are also willing to adjust if necessary. But we should not assume all kinds of assumptions from an article. It's not like they'd just knock. I'm assuming the official figures, and if we have to adjust something, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u24	Your final remark, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u25	I also assumed the official figures. I would just like to help Mr Dijkstra by saying that I am sure he did not mean that livestock production is human emissions, but that it is man-made emissions because of keeping too many animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u26	That's right, it's part of each other. Those two are being taken together. But even then, of course, you have a very large and very uncertain proportion of natural emissions. Think of the peat bogs that have been mentioned. With climate change you can possibly think of melting the tundra's. But it's also just the compost heap, maybe in your own backyard. It also emits methane. There are a lot of uncertainties. Those uncertainties need to be minimized as much as possible. Measuring is knowing. That's why you need to adjust models. But you should not selectively shop in articles, and certainly not selectively shopping in numbers and also post them here as being the truth, because that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u27	I have a question for Mr Dijkstra about the fact that it is better measured in the Netherlands than in our neighbouring countries. I understand that we have less density of measuring instruments. So I wonder what you are basing yourself on here, Mr Dijkstra. You also indicate that you think more research is needed. Do you therefore share the assessment that more measuring points will be needed to strengthen models?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u28	The latter is not the case. It is true that more money is being spent in Germany. They will undoubtedly have more measuring points there. But Germany is also a country that is seven to eight times bigger. In any case, West Germany was much larger than the Netherlands. In the Netherlands we measure on two points: at Cabauw near Lopik, where there is a big mast, and somewhere near Lauwersmeer, I think. Those are two places, one in the north and one in the middle of the country, which are very representative. In addition, we have our calculation models. Make no mistake about that. Let me draw the analogy with air quality. In the number of calculation points we use in the models, we are way ahead. I believe that there are 100,000 or even 300,000 measuring points for air quality that the RIVM calculates. So now it's about emissions. We have two physical points, but also a lot of points for which we calculate the values. That is much more than in other countries. If I may make a comparison: I sometimes come to Spain and there they only measure in Madrid. There is a problem, but not in the rest of Spain. And because Spain is so big, there is no problem there. So you have to put it into perspective. You have to keep measuring and calculating, but it is not necessary to put ten masts directly in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u29	But if, on the basis of more measurements, it appears that the models can and should be tightened, would you also be in favour of more measuring points to strengthen our models? As for your point about Germany, it is of course about the density of measurements and not the absolute number. Fortunately, I also understand that Germany is bigger than the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u30	If we have two, they will undoubtedly have more than ten in Germany, because that country is much larger. You have to change the models all the time. We are doing so, on the basis of the real measurements we are taking, but also on the basis of the calculations. I have no reason to doubt the integrity of the RIVM or the data it provides us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u32	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to my fellow Members for their flexibility. I'm glad I could move something on the list of speakers. Mr. Chairman. Climate change is caused by greenhouse gas emissions. CO is the best known, but not the worst. Methane is much more harmful than CO. It's even about 25 times more powerful than CO. Depending on the time frame on which you calculate it, as Mrs Ouwehand pointed out, that may even increase to 80 times more powerful. It is therefore important that we reduce methane emissions. According to the National Energy Exploratory, which gives us an annual picture of the reduction, emissions of all our greenhouse gases have decreased by about 10% since 1990, but CO emissions have remained about the same over that period. So the profits we made were mainly in the reduction of methane emissions. On the one hand, this means that there is still a lot of work to be done on CO emissions, but on the other hand, it means that it is very important that we know exactly whether the figures for methane emissions are correct. They are crucial, because that is what we base our policies on. So it turns out that there is still uncertainty about the measurement data. That is different from saying that they are not in integrity or that the RIVM is not in integrity, but the question is whether the margins and uncertainties currently present in the measurement of methane are too large. In fact, methane emissions are mainly monitored on a model basis. Companies make assessments based on a model of the amount of methane that is leaking. That is, of course, fine, if you update and benchmark such a model regularly. You have to know if the model is right. An independent expert should also check whether the models are being used properly. If we consider methane as an important factor, it is also important to keep track of the reduction of methane emissions for the country as a whole. Improvements are still possible in the calibration of the model and in the monitoring by an independent expert whether the reports are properly prepared. TNO's last study in which a kind of picture of methane emissions in the Netherlands was actually taken is twenty years old. TNO already warned that it was difficult and that there were uncertainties. Independent control is very limited. Moreover, recent evidence has shown that more methane is leaking than we thought on the basis of the reports; we all know the article. So we need better insight. That is what I hear colleagues saying. For a good climate policy, it is very important that we have clarity on the figures. Measuring is knowing. We need to get a clear picture of the amount of methane emitted by whom in the Netherlands, so that we can relate our actions to it. There must be a regular update of the model. Of course, we also use international knowledge, but we must also ensure that total emissions are kept up to date in a structured manner. This can be done, for example, by the National Emission Authority, which also does so for other greenhouse gases, such as CO. This seems to be my faction, therefore, the appropriate body for this. Measuring is the basis for a consistent and predictable and reliable government policy. We don't know exactly enough about methane yet. As far as the D66 Group is concerned, it is time to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr President, perhaps I should formally take this opportunity to congratulate the two Members of Parliament who made their maiden speech today. Climate policy, whether you agree with it or not, is of course a wonderful subject to devote the first words in this beautiful house. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few things in introduction to the whole issue of measuring methane and our international climate policy. I would like to say something about the objectives and the way in which we relate to them. At the end of the debate, I have to say that many rather technical questions the Chamber has asked about measuring, knowing and all the models that go with them. I am going to do my best to provide a responsible answer to that. The Netherlands is committed to combating climate change. It is true that the Dutch Government does not belong to the deniers section. We have made agreements with many countries in Paris. Both GroenLinks and the SP have said, together with Mrs Ouwehand, who was allowed to open the debate, that ambitious policies are needed. I very much agree with that. With the energy agreement, a first irreversible step towards a low greenhouse gas economy has been taken. At the moment, the cabinet is working on the further development of the Energy Agenda. Then we are looking not only at CO emissions, but also at emissions of other greenhouse gases, such as methane. This should lead to a long-term transition for the Netherlands towards real zero emissions by 2050. That's what we need to start on. At the same time, we must note that climate policy is focused on combating climate change through human action. You can see that the Paris agreement is also aimed at this. Thus, in line with these objectives, greenhouse gas reports focus mainly on man-made emissions. Many parties have asked about the models used internationally and the actual emissions measured. We have had this debate in small detail before during Question Time. So we're doing it again now, but with a little more opportunity for question and answer. The international climate models used to predict climate change take into account emissions from, for example, natural sources. CO is naturally absorbed by trees and oceans. The impact of natural emissions is closely monitored through the models. On the basis of these models, global climate targets are set. I agree with everyone in this Chamber that greenhouse gas reports should be accurate, reliable and of high quality. I don't think there's a difference of opinion on that. Measurements of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere are also used to validate and improve calculations and related reports. Mrs Beckerman said: then something might come out of an investigation and that is a problem. No, that's good. The very fact that we are doing research and sometimes we see that there is a difference between what is happening in practice and what we have put into the models, the fact that we can demonstrate these kinds of things, means that we can design our policies more and more precisely. So that doesn't scare me, but I have to act on it. That is very important. What you see is that the measured concentrations of certain greenhouse gases in the atmosphere differ from the reported emissions. I have already written in the letter sent to the Chamber that this is due, among other things, to the fact that the greenhouse gas reports submitted by the Netherlands to both the European Union and the UN are in conformity with international agreements. These relate only to man-made emissions. Emission factors and the underlying data are, of course, critically tested, both by Dutch experts and by independent review teams of the European Union and the UN. The general conclusion, which I would like to say here, is that it is felt that the Netherlands is well in order. Work is ongoing on improving both measurement and calculation. If, on the basis of up-to-date scientific evidence, it appears that the figures need to be adjusted, this will be implemented in the so-called data sets for greenhouse gas reports. Such fine-tuning takes place almost every year and contributes to the gradual achievement of ever more reliable emission dates. A number of parties have said something about the share of methane in total greenhouse gas emissions. Methane is responsible for 10% of total greenhouse gas emissions in the Netherlands. The vast majority of emissions are related to CO emissions. Moreover, these emissions can be measured more precisely. I think it's important to say that. We can do most of our measurements more precisely, because CO in particular is much better to map. This ensures that in a situation where actual methane emissions are at the top of an uncertainty margin, their policy effects will be limited. A number of more general questions have been asked about policy. Mrs Kröger asked what emission levels the Netherlands should aim to achieve the 2°C target and what measures would be included. Together with the European Union, we are contributing to the Paris Agreement. In 2014, Heads of Government agreed to collectively reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030. Part of that declaration shall be completed by adjusting the ETS. I have worked very hard with the support of the Chamber to this end in the last Environment Council, to put it mildly. This means that the so-called trialogue is currently negotiating further on this issue. At least the system looks to be improved. For non-ETS emissions, you will have to think about agriculture, transport and the built environment, and we will negotiate specific targets for each Member State. Once these negotiations have been concluded, we will look at what measures are appropriate for the Netherlands to actually achieve the goals we need to achieve. Work is, of course, under the Energy Agenda on the so-called transition paths by sector. We are looking at how we can be at the level we have committed ourselves to in 2030 and 2050. Mrs Ouwehand asked if I am prepared to impose the great cause of methane emissions, agriculture, targets that he deserves. I actually answered that question in general terms during Question Time with yes. We will have to take steps for each of the sectors, agriculture, transport and the built environment. All sectors, including agriculture, must play their part. As you know, non-CO emissions in agriculture have been substantially reduced since 1990. But in the future too, the sector will have to drive further reductions. As I have just said, we are looking at how, among other things, the agricultural sector should contribute to achieving 40% greenhouse gas reductions by 2030. Once we have completed these negotiations, we will translate them into measures for all Dutch sectors. The same applies to agriculture. We are also looking at the contribution that agriculture can make under the Energy Agenda, but it will be up to the new cabinet to make a decision on this point. Mrs Beckerman asked about the Smaling motion to include the grinding of peat meadows in climate policy. The emissions of peat meadow areas are being taken into account in the elaboration of the so-called 'Effort Sharing Decision', the European policy we are now negotiating on what non-ETS sectors should contribute. That is what we are working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u34	The Secretary of State says to answer my question how to achieve the goal of 2°C. However, my question was explicitly how to keep the 1.5°C within reach and what package of measures it includes, specifically with regard to methane emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u35	We will all see that in 2018 we also agreed on a scenario that says what it would mean if we had to go to the 1.5°C. I must honestly say that the ease with which some people think we are going to meet the 20°C target often surprises me. I really think it will be a hell of a job, for all sectors, to get what we are already committed to. Nothing stays the way it is. And yes, we will also get a picture of what is needed for 1.5°C, because 1.5°C is included as a perspective in the agreement. This will mean that, of course, there is still a lot to be done in all these sectors. You also know that once the low-hanging fruit is picked, those last steps will be much heavier than the first. That will also come into view, because it is embedded in the entire UN system. We will always discuss this in a European context, because that is how we organised it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u36	I share the Secretary of State's view that it is going to be a hell of a job and that much needs to be done. Only, in Paris, we agreed to keep 1.5°C in sight. At present, the policy is based on 2°C. What does it mean to wait until 2018 to make serious work of keeping an eye on 1.5°C?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u37	With all due respect, but the fact that we are now on our way to achieving that 2°C objective means that we are taking a very significant step, even at the time when we might wish to move forward. There is therefore no discussion between the various countries that have committed themselves to the Paris agreement that there is a need to run fast, and that there is a final objective. So by 2050 we will have to produce greenhouse gas neutrally. In the end, of course, the discussion is about the pace at which you do that; that is also a political consideration. In Paris, we agreed that in 2018, together with the scientists of the IPCC, we will present a scenario that shows this. This will automatically be translated through the Union into what that means even more for the Netherlands. 2018 is next year, so it's not just a st-juttemis. From a political point of view, I have listened with interest to Mr Van Aalst's contribution. We disagree, but that won't surprise him. He also had some career suggestions for me. I just told him on congratulations that I'm not gonna follow it. Because I just run into him as a colleague. I was also elected as a Member of Parliament, so we will undoubtedly cross the swords not on this subject but perhaps on another subject. Mr Van Aalst also made a comment about the conference I intend to organise, together with the Governor of California. That climate conference in the United States will take place very soon, at the end of May. We discussed it in the Cabinet, and I can tell you that it is not a resistance conference. I repeat: it is not a resistance conference. In fact, there will also be a number of Dutch and American companies. Dutch companies go along, and there are American companies there, to see what economic opportunities they see in the climate and energy transition that we all consider necessary. Because, as you know, climate is also big business. I know that Mr Van Aalst has a certain picture of what I intend to do, but that is not correct. It's not a resistance conference. It is a conference that brings together a lot of progressive people who believe that we should commit ourselves to the Paris Agreement to show what opportunities there are. So it's actually a tremendously optimistic conference, a positive conference. That is what Mr Van Aalst should really address.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u38	We're gonna hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u39	If it's not a resistance conference, do I understand that the Secretary of State supports President Trump's climate policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u40	I do not think Mr Trump has yet made clear what his climate policy is going to look like. In fact, that is currently under discussion. So we wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u41	I think President Trump made a very clear election promise. I understand what you are saying: there have indeed been a few delays in the last few days. However, he has not yet distanced himself from his climate policy. So I would like to ask again: if it is not a resistance conference, will you support climate policy as he has indicated in his election promises?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u42	The current policy of the US Government is that it is still committed to the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u43	Mr Van Aalst, your final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u44	In this respect, I really see this as a resistance conference against the US climate policy. Imagine if a Turkish minister here in the Netherlands would hold a resistance conference against the Dutch government, against the Prime Minister or the Secretary of State. Or does that only happen in election time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u45	No, your assumption is simply not correct, because it is not a conference "against" but a conference "for," namely for cooperation between, for example, the US and the Dutch business community and for the search for opportunities, for example if we wanted to strengthen our sustainable mobility market. As you know, it is an objective of the Dutch Government to make sure that in 2035 we have people who think that is too late, all of them are going to drive low-emission vehicles. Coincidentally, the sixth economy in the world, California's, feels the same way. And coincidentally, even that market, no matter how big it is, is very small if you want to achieve such a transition quickly. Then it is obvious that American and Dutch companies should join forces and see how we can work together in this area. This is also good for an otherwise very important objective of the American government and certainly of the Dutch government, namely jobs and growth. That's a fantastic starting point. The special thing is that this transition is constantly on the agenda. That's what we're gonna show you. In this sense, I believe that we can indeed learn from the American elections, because it is very important that the American people also see this perspective and that our people also see that perspective. Then you must also show what economic opportunities there are. I believe that this is an important part of the conference, which is about something positive: about jobs and about growth. That is something on which I think we have been able to get along very well with our American friends for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u46	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u47	I come to the pièce de résistance of my contribution. That's about the technique. So I'm really gonna do my best now. Mr Dijkstra asked whether there is a clear difference between measurements and models, which is the reason for this and whether differences between sectors are visible in this respect. The tricky thing is that we actually compare apples with pears. Both climate policy and related emissions reports focus on man-made emissions, but greenhouse gases of natural origin, which are included in the measurements, are not included in the reports. In addition, the exact origin of greenhouse gases is not always directly traceable. Measured concentrations in the air can be the result of something that seems logical, namely a direct emission, both from man and from natural origin, but can also blow over from abroad or may have been caused by chemical transformations into the atmosphere. Furthermore, both measurements and calculated emissions are always subject to a certain uncertainty band width, which can explain some of the difference. Scientists at home and abroad are actively working to further reduce these uncertainties. The European and UN review teams I have already mentioned ensure that this happens. Then there's oil and gas emissions. Mrs. Mulder asked for that. What about data based on measurements and models? Is that a matter where you have the reality in mind? And can we take company practices with us? In response to written questions from Mrs Van Tongeren, Minister Kamp has already given an explanation in February of this year. The Netherlands uses, in my terms, state-of-the-art measurement methods, which also allows it to use a lower emission factor for distribution. Methane emissions are calculated on the basis of so-called flow rates and indicators for different steps in the production process, and are based on international industry standards, verified factory data of process components and validation measurements. TNO also indicates that our methane accounting could be an example for other countries. In addition, the Dutch gas and oil industry uses different techniques to reduce methane emissions. Mrs Beckerman has asked how much methane is actually released from gas extraction and whether we are measuring it. It also mentioned a TNO report from the 1990s. Data from the emission registration show that in the energy sector as a whole, therefore, gas extraction in the past years has also been emitted to methane on average between 0.5 and 1 megatons. As I have just explained, methane emissions are calculated in a certain way, with flow rates and numbers. TNO also indicates that our methane accounting could be an example for other countries. The Norwegian Environment Agency has carried out measurements to make it even clearer where the largest amount of methane is released in the extraction process. On this basis, a follow-up study is now being carried out by Mrs Beckerman from the State surveillance of Mines. This study will show whether the current system is valid enough or whether it needs to be further adapted. In addition, the Dutch Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Association is evaluating the best available method for the determination of various forms of methane emissions in the oil and gas sector. On the basis of this research, we are also considering whether we can make further improvements. The updating of the TNO study is therefore not necessary. In fact, several ways are being considered as to whether and what improvements are being made to properly record methane emissions from the oil and gas sector. Mrs Ouwehand asked if I am prepared to use another greenhouse gas factor for methane as well as the so-called 100-year factor. This factor 25, because that is what we are talking about, is agreed at international level and is used in the UN and EU context. This factor was already increased from 21 to 25 in 2015. It may well be that this factor will be raised again for the period after 2020, but that is not only what we are going to do in the Netherlands. If Mrs Ouwehand asks me, the answer is no. We simply adhere to the international and European standards that apply to all countries. So I'm not in it for an all-inch. Mrs Kröger asked if there were sufficient measuring points. Mr Dijkstra has actually already explained it. There are two measuring masts, in Cabauw and in Lutjewad. They measure the concentrations in the air. Such measuring points are also found in other countries. Individual methane sources, such as landfills, gas engines and agriculture, are selected on a case-by-case basis for the best method of mapping emissions. Internationally, we work well together to achieve a good interpretation of measurements and emission calculations. I really leave the amount of measuring points needed to the scientists. I really do not like having a discussion about this in politics. Another question is whether there is enough money for research. That is the political debate, and that is what we need to focus on. I believe that sufficient research is being carried out to give us a reliable picture of emissions. I would like to say that we are truly recognised internationally in this respect. So let us not make the Netherlands smaller than it is. A few months ago, however, there was uncertainty as to whether there was sufficient funding for research in the future. I have already replied at Question Time that I am of the opinion that we are very much in agreement that this research is very valuable. So my ministry has also made a contribution. We are not the only ones to do so, but we have done so to ensure that the investigation can continue. I agree with all those who say'measuring is knowing', but then you also have to make enough money to put it in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u48	Given the discrepancies between the recent measurements and the models, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State is prepared to discuss with experts whether the number of measurement masts is sufficient and whether the measuring instrument is currently sufficiently covering to achieve good models and therefore good policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u49	I do not have the impression that the problem lies in the number of measuring points. We will always find that we are measuring better and better and that this creates these discrepancies. That's what we've seen with other substances. That happens because we measure better. The differences arise from measuring. As a result, we can see that the models are sometimes outdated. The fact that we encounter these kinds of things means that we measure them well. So let us ensure that there are sufficient resources. I think this was one of the things that a number of scientists were worried about. Then, if these differences in practice come to light, let us do everything we can to ensure that the models are adapted when they need to be validated. That's the debate. On these two points, the answer is: yes, we have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u50	At the moment, we are surprised by the results of the Correspondent's investigation. So you want to validate a way in which you organize research, including measurements and influxes into models, so you don't have to stand up for surprises like this. So my question is whether the Secretary of State would like to talk to experts about how to improve measurements and validation and model building, so as not to be faced with such surprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u51	I'm going to tell you something crazy: you'll be surprised more often. I also hope that this will happen, because that means that we are measuring better and better. Your basic assumption doesn't add up. Just when you're not measuring properly, you'll never be surprised. That is at the heart of the discussion. When you measure, you see things that you didn't see coming in the models. All you have to do is keep measuring. There were concerns about that. I agree that we shouldn't worry about that. That should be in order. If you measure that reality is different from your model, then you have to make sure that your model is adjusted. But you will continue to be surprised, and that is a good thing, because that means that science does its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u52	I hear the Secretary of State refer to TNO and the compliments we often receive from abroad for our calculations and measurement methods. What is the outcome of this debate, apart from the exchange of views? Isn't this actually a storm in a glass of water? What does the Secretary of State think of the Correspondent's article, which seems to put many people on the wrong track?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u53	I have learned in this life that journalists comment on me and I do not comment on them; that's what it starts with. In addition, I think it is very good that if there is research that shows that measurements sometimes show a different reality than we thought before, we simply study it seriously and consider whether it is necessary, for example, to make our models even better with additional international research. I suspect that this article has come about because scientists have been concerned about the continuity of research. Of course, that's what happened. I think it's important that they don't have that concern. In it they find me, as it were, by their side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u54	Okay, that's a very clear statement. It is good that the Secretary of State says that she thinks that this is a bit the cause of this debate. Can it also reflect on the international position we have? How do we do when compared to abroad when it comes to measurements of RIVM and others? How are we in there? We are one Europe, but are there major differences? How does the Netherlands score compared to other countries when it comes to measuring and calculating?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u55	I have just said that I think the Netherlands is doing just fine. Because we are so precise and are getting more and more pictured, we will often find differences between the figures the models assume and the reality. That is also important, because it will help us make these models better. The important thing is that we do that. Then you must also ensure that the scientific research is continued. There can be no doubt about that. That should not be left in the middle. That's the point, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u56	If I listen carefully, the Secretary of State will continue to investigate exactly what the differences are and what the differences are. That is a commitment we are getting from the Secretary of State today. Did I listen to that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u57	Yes, I have already made that commitment in Question Time. Scientific research on methane shows that there is a difference between the measurements and the models. I think that's very valuable. I don't have a negative opinion on that. I think it's very good that we get that. That is what we are highlighting at European level. Then we do follow-up research, often also European. In the end, we are going to take this towards the UN, because that is where the models will have to be adapted. We do that regularly, I can tell you. Some measurements of certain substances show that reality is different. Sometimes reality is more rosy than we thought. Then we'll adjust the models as well. We have a whole protocol for that. That's all scientifically sound, but you have to follow it, and we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u58	When will the Chamber be informed that it has been adapted for the better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u59	That's a process that takes time. It's not settled in a few months, but it could take a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u60	Does the Secretary of State intend, if there are any new reports, to include them in the letters to the Chamber on emissions? Otherwise, we won't be able to keep up. The Chamber is also there to look critically at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u61	I think that's a very good idea. These are pretty significant topics. If that leads to a new international step or new insight, I can imagine that we will include it in the existing communication with the Chamber, especially if it would lead to the strengthening of the model or not. The Chamber must also know and be able to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u63	That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u64	I didn't see a panic attack on the officials during your technical story, so I think it went perfectly well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u65	They also have a poker face.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u66	Oh, is that it? I note that Mrs Ouwehand needs a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u67	I see that Mrs Ouwehand is still working on a motion. That gives me the opportunity to address myself to those present in the public gallery. You are now following a debate on greenhouse gas emissions, especially methane. As not everyone will be fully familiar with such a subject, it is always a challenge to make it appealing. At least we're doing our best to make it interesting for you. I'm glad you're all here for this interesting debate about the future and the climate. In the meantime, Mrs Ouwehand is coming, so that I can now give her the floor in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas methane is an aggressive greenhouse gas operating in the short term;]] [[Whereas, while the internationally used method of recording emissions is very useful for assessing the long-term effects of greenhouse gases, it does not provide sufficient insight into the short-term effects;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to the 100-year period of the GWP, to apply a greenhouse gas emission measurement bar based on a 20-year period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet in Europe is negotiating emission reduction targets for agriculture by 2030, but that there are no targets for dairy farming, for example;]] [[Recalling the climate judgment that the Netherlands should have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2020 compared to 1990;]] [[drawing attention to the various other objectives that the (milk) livestock farming will have to meet with regard to the protection of the environment, nature, public health and animal welfare and to the motion for a resolution adopted;]] [[calls on the government to achieve the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from (milk) livestock farming in relation to the other objectives, with a source approach, i.e. a shrinkage of livestock without increasing livestock production per animal, as the main starting point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-26]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u69	Thank you to the Secretary of State for her answers. We have two motions on the question of methane research. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it has been scientifically demonstrated that methane leaks from the oil and gas industries and from water treatment plants, which means that the calculated emissions do not correspond to actual emissions;]] [[calls on the Government to improve the measurement of methane leakage in the gas sector, the waterboards and the Rijkswaterstaat;]] [[calls on the Government to ask these sectors to draw up an action plan to further reduce these leakages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u70	My second motion concerns the measurements. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is uncertainty about the financing of the CESAR climate observatory and that funding is currently guaranteed until 2018 only;]] [[noting that Cabauw is only one of two places in the Netherlands where greenhouse gas emissions are measured;]] [[noting that countries around us are achieving more measuring tape because of the increase in the severity of the climate problem;]] [[considers it essential to ensure the long-term future of the CESAR climate observatory, precisely because it is extremely important to base policies on actual measurements;]] [[calls on the government to map out whether two measuring points are sufficient for adequate information on the CO emissions from the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. It is quite clear that it supports the importance of good scientific research. For us, it is very important that this happens, but also that it is good and independent scientific research. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are no adequate measurements now, which creates uncertainty about methane emissions;]] [[Whereas actual measured emissions are of great importance for effective climate policy;]] [[calls on the government to use more and better measurements of actual greenhouse gas emissions by ensuring both the necessary funding and independence of measurements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-130]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u72	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u73	Thank you. I call Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mr. Chairman. California has clearly indicated that it is going to hold a resistance conference against Trump's climate policy. That's even degenerate into riots before. The Secretary of State can make a positive spin on this, but her participation by President Trump and his constituents will really be seen as a resistance to his policy. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Secretary of State Dijksma intends to organise a resistance conference in the United States against the American President's climate policy;]] [[believes that our friendly ties with the United States and the interests of our business should not be squandered by an acting Secretary of State;]] [[calls on the government not to organise and not participate in a resistance conference in the US,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr. Chairman. We would like to thank the Secretary of State and her staff very much for their answers to this rather complex problem. It is important that we realise together that we cannot do it alone and that we are not on an island, but that we also need the rest of the world. I therefore believe that it is important that international research is conducted properly. If the Netherlands can strengthen that further, I am very happy with that. I therefore welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that she will do her best to do so and that she will inform the Chamber about it, including in the interim, so that the Chamber can keep up with it. It is part of the problem of emissions and we all want to achieve the objectives of the Paris climate agreement, with a single fraction. We need to know if we're going to be properly measured.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u76	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for replying and for her letter, which was clear. It is a technical subject that we are trying to make understandable and in which there is still a great deal of elusiveness. That's why "measuring is knowing" is important. We need to make sure that the information we have is validated and good. We need to keep this under constant review and, where necessary, carry out additional research. For the VVD, it is very important that, if we change, we drive on a level playing field at European level. I am also keen to see the impact of emissions by sector and their origin, because then you can take measures that will have an effect. Specifically for the agricultural and livestock sector, I very much believe in innovations, such as other feeds that are much possible or some other form of manure processing. I think that is what we should be talking about instead of the proposals some other parties are making, parties that know the outcome in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u77	I have a quick question. It is the second time that the VVD says "measuring is knowing" and indicates that we need to know first, because otherwise she doesn't want to do anything. The final motion on the permanent financing of greenhouse gas measurements has been successful, but without the support of the VVD. That was in February. Does the VVD mean the readings are important? For example, can the motion of the SP and the Party of Animals that has just been tabled count on its support? Or does the VVD just say that we need to measure as a signpost to do nothing? Does it not itself do anything about the improvement or at least the continuity of these measurements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u78	I thought there was one measuring point, but when I studied the pieces well, I did see that there were two. That's actually enough. I agree with the Secretary of State that you should leave the number of measuring points to science. We should not decide that here in the Chamber. I have heard all the compliments we receive internationally for the way we do this. I think that we in the Netherlands are really at the forefront of this. I have no reason to doubt that. Again, science has to make the choices here. The Secretary of State himself, in all her wisdom, has decided to continue funding. That was also the reason for this article, as I understand it. That's a good choice from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u79	The Secretary of State went through with that funding because the Chamber took a motion. The VVD was against that motion. Does the VVD now regret that, because she thinks it's so important that we measure well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u80	No, I'm still in favour of rejecting that motion. There is a good measure and no extra money is needed. The cabinet thinks so and continues this. Well, fine, end of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mr. Chairman. Measuring is knowing. Where we do not yet know enough, we need to see whether we can accurately map this. Moreover, for all greenhouse gases, you need to make that information easily accessible. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for climate policy to have a clear picture of methane emissions;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[send an overview of methane emissions by region and sector in the Netherlands to the Chamber;]] [[carry out a check on the improvement of methane emissions measurements in the Netherlands;]] [[enable the Dutch Emission Authority to unlock the data on methane emissions in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u82	I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the technical answers, which are very important for the question of how we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u83	The Secretary of State needs two minutes to take all the motions and form an opinion on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u84	I'm reopening the meeting. In its second term, the Secretary of State will now provide seven motions for comments and an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mr President, I will gladly do so. I must give you a profit warning: it is not easy to judge today. First of all, Mrs Ouwehand's motion on item No. 126 in which she actually asks me to apply a different standard alongside the international one. I have already indicated in the debate that I am not going to do that. It now seduces the Chamber to another judgment, for my opinion is that I am deceiving the motion for a resolution for that reason. We're gonna stick to international standards, and if they're not good, we're gonna have to change them. But that's different from using a double standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u86	A quick question. In 2020, does the Secretary of State think that in less than three years' time it will be possible to comply with the climate ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u87	Yes. You have also had a letter on this from Minister Kamp, a letter which was also written on my behalf. You also know that we have included a then in the letter, which means that a further step may be taken towards an additional coal power station. That is what comes into view, but we expect it to be met. We know that for sure just after the summer, because I expect it to be known in the new reports that will be sent to the Chamber in September. I'm just checking my officials to see if that's true, and I think that's true. I'm going to move on to the motion in part No. 127, in which I am asked to come to a shrinkage of livestock. I have already indicated that, of course, agriculture will also have to take steps to comply with the Paris Agreement. We will now have to negotiate the objective to be met, and then we will have to work out a mix of measures to follow up. Ultimately, this is an optimal and efficient mix of measures in all sectors. I'm not getting ahead of myself, and that's why I'm deceiving the motion. Then I come to two motions by Mr Kröger and Mr Van Veldhoven, motions which are actually interrelated. I'll start with the motion in part No. 128 in which the government is asked to ask sectors to draw up an action plan to further reduce leakages. This concerns the gas sector and waterboards in particular. As has been said, there are sufficient measurements and this is mainly about new scientific information that we want to integrate into the calculation methods. I do not really want to put an extra financial burden on these organisations, because we have to make sure that the models get better. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion. In the next motion in part No. 129 members ask Kröger and Van Veldhoven to have a map of whether two measuring points are sufficient to obtain adequate information on the CO emissions from the Netherlands. I indicated earlier in the debate that I do not think the number of measurement points is the issue. I really want to leave that to science. I have also promised that I will have funding in mind for 2018 and of course we started working for Cabauw as well. So it's settled for the next year. In fact, the motion anticipates the long-term uncertainty. I would like to say to Mr Kröger and Mr Van Veldhoven that it is perhaps not the time to discuss this. They will probably also have another and perhaps more effective way in which to have this very important conversation. I do not think it makes any impression, but they can mention in that conversation that it has my warm support, of course. Then I come to the motion on part No. 130 by Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u88	Secretary of State, do you have a verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u89	Dissuade!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u90	Dissuade me, thank you very much. Now we move on to the fifth motion, the motion in part No. 130.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u91	The question is whether I want to 'know more and better' secure. Again, more measurements are not the core. We recognise that the reports and measurements in the Netherlands are really of high quality. Mr Dijkstra asked me again. Indeed, we must ensure that there is sufficient financial resources. That is what I have guaranteed for next year. But it is really up to a new cabinet to decide what happens next. You know my current position. I will put it in order for the next budget and then we will see together what choices a new cabinet makes in it. I'm very curious; I have high expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u92	That's how you dissuaded this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u93	I have also advised against this motion, yes. I will do that today with all the motions before I forget to say it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u94	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u95	Yeah, it's not easy. I did have some doubts about Mr Van Aalst's motion on item No. 131. I was thinking: I could also say that it is simply policy support. Because in itself, the government doesn't intend to do this. I'm gonna say it again: there's not gonna be a resistance conference. We are not going to take part in that either. In material terms, therefore, Mr van Aalst simply gets what he wants. There will be a conference of positive forces. I honestly suspect that we are simply disagreeing on the meaning of the conference. I have really looked for a moment for an opportunity to meet Mr Van Aalst. But I have to say that the consequence is that I will not be allowed to travel from the PVV to California, and then I have a problem. For that reason, I must, of course, with regret, really discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u96	I'm a little surprised. California is very clear on what it wants. It clearly distances itself from President Trump's policy and opposes it. Can I conclude that the Secretary of State does not agree with the organisation? And if the organization maintains this, does she intend not to be present?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u97	I'm sorry, but we're organizing this conference ourselves. We do that together with the government of California.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u98	Thank you. We are not going to repeat the debate, Mr Van Aalst. This motion has been dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u99	Yes, and the last motion, the Van Veldhoven/Kröger motion in part No. 132, too. I'll explain why. As mentioned above, methane emissions are already on the emission registration site. You can see them there at sector level. So you can look up that information if you have an hour for that. The NEa has no role in this. RVO coordinates reports and also looks at the information. We must of course organise a continuous improvement of the data, but we have independent European and UN review teams for that. So these instruments are there and are being used. Following these measurements, our data will also be passed on, first at European level and later at the UN. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate on greenhouse gas methane emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-8.u101	The votes on the motions will be taken next Tuesday.
