ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Herman Tjeenk Willink. He's in box K so he can answer any questions the MPs may have about his final report. I now give the floor to Mr Mark Rutte, the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by making sure that for my part it is clear that I am extremely grateful for the work of Herman Tjeenk Willink. That goes for the entire VVD. We've been able to enjoy him in the last few weeks. He's done an excellent job. He does indeed have a unique method, of which I am never quite sure whether it is on the spot or whether it has been based on years of insights. But that doesn't really matter. If things happen in everyday practice and things are going well, it is because of years of experience. In fact, it doesn't really matter what the chicken is and where the egg is. It wasn't an easy assignment. It had to be carried out with patience and precision and that went very well. It is not ready, because in the end we are now going to negotiate a second combination of parties in the next stage that is coming. What has been completed is the stage in which it was necessary to consider which parties would then be. I said last time that I thought it was of the utmost importance and I believe that parties place national interests above party interests. I think it would be a good thing from that point of view to establish now that negotiations can start between parties with a view, if those negotiations succeed, to a majority here in the House of Representatives. These are negotiations, as the informant notes, without any pre-blocks. Why is this so important, this country's interest over party interests, and that we can now negotiate without blockages in advance? That is simply because there are very big issues, both internationally and in the Netherlands. I've been busy in Europe for the past few weeks. There's a lot going on there. The G20 is coming up next Friday and Saturday. Tomorrow is the front-row, the European front-row of the G20. There too is a great deal going on: the unpredictability of the new US government, the situation between Russia and Europe, the situation in the Middle East and Syria. These are international developments. The question also arises at national level as to how we can actually balance the different interests in this country. Mr President, I'm almost done. It is up to you whether I speak to Mr Asscher or finish my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u3	I think it's good to finish your story. Mr Asscher will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u4	I would like to say something very briefly, and I would like to listen, as so often, to the Deputy Prime Minister, here the PvdA foreman. It's always a matter of checking what role I see him in. The VVD is confident that these negotiations will start as soon as possible. We agree with the final report of the informant, also in his advice to appoint Gerrit Zalm as the new informant with the task of investigating whether and in what way a cabinet consisting of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion can be formed. I also intend to table a motion on this subject in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u5	So it is not a Green Right but rather "Right with the Bible" in the coming time. In this context, Mr Rutte, as VVD leader, said that he was okay with the new cabinet linking right and left, progressive and conservative. That is a very significant statement by the leader of a right-wing party. So I ask Mr Rutte if he can give us some examples of how he intends to put that into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u6	I do think it's important. The VVD is center right, right of the center. Of course, it is always difficult to determine what exactly is right and left. The VVD is undoubtedly a right-wing party in addressing issues such as public finances, the free market economy, entrepreneurship, integration and the issues surrounding global migration flows. However, the VVD is a very left-wing party on many immaterial issues. For example, the party was on the basis of liberal principles defender of issues such as gay marriage, euthanasia and abortion. Anyway, I also realize that in the Netherlands parties are divided into left and right and that most Dutch people recognize that, and then I agree that the VVD is a centre-right party. And yet I think it is very important that the new coalition is able to connect the different currents in this country. I also quoted Alexander Pechtold in the previous debate we had on this point and repeated it when I was walking out with the informant at some point. That means a few things. When we sit at the table, we're not just looking at the biggest common denominator between the different party programs and the question of how to rise above those programs and invent things that connect those four parties. We also realise that these four parties rely on 76 seats and therefore only cover part of the political spectrum. In view of the national and international issues, it is therefore attractive to examine with the parties such as Mr Asscher's PvdA and Mr GroenLinks' and SP whether it is possible to obtain support for policies. I am thinking, for example, of the major issues relating to climate change and control of migratory flows. The question is whether it is possible to come up with policies that have broader support than the 76 seats mentioned above.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you. I think it is a clear explanation and I understand that Mr Rutte wants to look for links between the left and the right on subjects. Perhaps, now that this combination is being investigated, I should express the concerns of many people at a point where I know Mark Rutte is also concerned. I am thinking, for example, of the care of pregnant women who, if they want to be tested, do not want to face the dilemma of taking all kinds of risks with such a pregnancy. That's what the Non Invasive Prenatal Test is for now. Under this cabinet, it is possible to do so under circumstances. It would, I think, be very good to reassure the women and men involved in this matter, and that also applies to research into horrificly serious hereditary diseases that can now take place, that also in this combination these kinds of subjects are safe and that the VVD will also be responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u8	I get the question. I also understand why this question is being asked here, but I think it is wise that if we are going to negotiate a combination of political parties, these matters will be discussed at that table. As a reflection, I will give an example of what the Christian Union did yesterday on the issue of bank bonuses. That was a motion the Christian Union wanted to support. The views of the Christian Union on this issue are different from how this party voted yesterday. It was not voted in this way because the Christian Union suddenly has a different view, but because the party wants to have that discussion at the formation table. That is why I think it is right to discuss these issues at the formation table and not in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u9	Finally, Mr Asscher, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u10	That tension is always in these kinds of debates. What I thought the Christian Union was doing well is saying that the party has not changed its mind. In doing so, the Christian Union has also indicated that the party at that table will continue to stand up for strict bonus rules, and we all understand that this cannot be a guarantee. I now ask the same of Mark Rutte as VVD leader for this combination, no matter how much appreciation there is for all parties, including the Christian Union. It is precisely on these kinds of issues that intervene deeply in people's lives and in the choices they have to make, which they are also concerned about and on which we have made progress in recent years, that at least the commitment of the VVD should be clear at the negotiating table. Of course, there can be no more than that. Mr Rutte will be conducting these talks in the Stadhouderskamer behind closed doors, but that commitment is important, especially if you are radiating and here repeats that you want to connect left and right, progressive and conservative. Then this is the time to mark that also on the basis of the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u11	But then Mr Asscher asks me to read out the VVD election programme, and he knows it. So he knows the stakes. He doesn't have to worry about that. I thought he also wanted to know how the negotiations would end at that point. I say that is at the negotiating table. But he knows the stakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u12	The parties that are now at the table are right-wing parties or center parties. So you're thinking of a center-right cabinet. The more pleased I was to read in the report of the informant that this cabinet must indeed make an attempt to bridge the gap between the left and the right. A number of themes were mentioned, for example in the area of climate change. We look forward to the opposition and the coalition finding each other here. But there is another point that divides left and right: the point of inequality. Does Mr Rutte see the room to bridge the differences there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u13	That is certainly a theme in society, which, by the way, there is more than just money, I keep telling Mr Klaver not only about income relations but about much broader issues in society. Before I go into that, let me say something about the Christian Union. I wish that was a center-right party! That would make the case a lot easier from the VVD. But really, wake up! The Christian Union is not a centre-right party, no way. Read the program. Mr Klaver will find much in that that appeals to him, and I find that worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u14	Then his question about income... sorry, just not about income relations, I hope, but about the gap in society. Yes, of course, that is also a matter that we have discussed. That has come out in the formation that GroenLinks participated in. The important thing is to eventually ensure that you do not get a coalition that represents a certain group in society or a certain lifestyle in society but tries to see widely that there are major issues. I have often said it: the people who voted for the Socialist Party or the Freedom Party, what is it? They have done so because they are concerned about major problems in the country. They touch on the issue of refugee flows and integration, but also on issues of personal situation, personal life, poverty, the fight against them and how we deal with them. I believe that a coalition should set itself the objective of always trying to look at these issues in conjunction and where it is possible to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Rutte mentions a number of things that I can agree with and he says that we should all look at them, but he went a little around the point I asked about income inequality. Again, I am not here to negotiate it. This is first and foremost for the negotiating parties in the Stadhouderskamer or anywhere in the negotiations. But does he also see that there should be a bridge between the left and the right, and that you will not get away from looking at income relations as well? I'm not talking about what the outcome is gonna be, but you're not gonna get away from letting that part be, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u16	What I find so unfortunate: now we have a young, fresh leader of GroenLinks and at this point he has exactly the same lyrics as the most devout PvdA'er and SP'er! Eventually you hear the word "leveling" in the distance. You can hear that in his question, "leveling." Here too, I think it is quite clear what the VVD is about. That may differ from Mr Klaver's position on this point in terms of instruments, but I would like to say to him once again: it is not just that? Look what we did to the $5 billion package a few years ago. We didn't level at all back then. What we have done is to look at how we could direct the 5 billion to where it ends up, that it particularly affects the low-income and middle-income workers. That's what we agreed on in the coalition. Now, if you look at the crisis we are coming out of, I think the big problem will be that the middle class in this country too is the middle class of all of us; the middle class is voting for all parties here in the Chamber who have so much paid the price of the crisis, feels that things are going better now. That will be my commitment at the negotiating table. But here too, as with Mr Asscher's question on medical and ethical issues, that is my commitment. Whatever comes out of the negotiations, we're gonna look at that table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u17	I know very few people who can say the word "levelle" with as much disgust as Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thanks for the compliment! My party will be pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u19	Of course, but the question I asked was not so much about whether Mr Rutte is able to satisfy his party. I commend myself very much for pointing out that the income relationships should be part of that conversation, that they should be part of it and that you should do so with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u20	Of course, they're always topics of conversation. We also always look at decent purchasing power images. We are working on this in the current coalition towards the 2018 budget, and we have done so in recent years. But when we talk about the gap in society, as the informant also describes in his report, it is really a broader issue than just the issue of the pay slip.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u21	I thank the Prime Minister for once again admitting that the 5 billion went to the workers alone. I hope that this will be different in the coming period, because the people who have worked hard have also contributed to solving the crisis. They should finally get some money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u22	Of course, the price of the crisis was ultimately paid by all of us. But if you are going to look very real where the blow ended up in recent years, then you really have to see that this is the middle class in the Netherlands, which is what I call a broad middle class. When we had the opportunity with the present cabinet to reduce the burden by 5 billion, we did indeed target those with lower incomes and middle income, also because this would contribute to a further recovery in employment and economic growth. This is the main prerequisite for ensuring that our pension, our AOW, is affordable in the longer term. I also believe that the elderly in the Netherlands, who have children and grandchildren, consider it very important that they have a decent income. That's exactly the balance we need to monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u23	I almost find what the Prime Minister is saying offensive. If there's one party that's good for kids and grandchildren, it's our party. We really do take that into account. But there is enough money in these pots and it is really up to the present cabinet...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That group has also paid for it, the Prime Minister says so himself. Why shouldn't that group profit equally from the moment it can be handed out again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u24	I get the question. The comment I made was about how a few years ago we made policy choices from the current coalition on the return of the 5 billion. That happened, as I just outlined. I understand Mr Krol's remark in such a way that he says: look at future possibilities wider than just that group. I'm listening to that. We will see how that goes in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr. Chairman. We were here until 11:00 last night in a debate on terror and terrorism. I already said it was an embarrassing display. If that embarrassing display was a taste of what the Netherlands is facing with a next cabinet, it doesn't look good for the Netherlands. We saw a Prime Minister who had the ambition to become Prime Minister again and who took that debate, the most important issue in the years ahead, anything but seriously. He was playing with his phone, literally dive under the chair that Mr Tjeenk Willink is sitting on, half the debate was absent, some jokes were made with his colleagues and, as a blow to the flame, he called Muslims double victim of terror, while of course we are the victims of Islam. On 15 March, the Netherlands voted for less terror, for more security, for a stricter immigration policy. But now, after 100 days, after all the political power games, after all the exclusions and failures, after freeing with GroenLinks, after the humiliation of the Christian Union by Pechtold, the informer of the seventh party of the Netherlands has managed to get the eighth party of the Netherlands to the negotiating table. What does that have to do with democracy? The CDA and the VVD have slammed the door to a cabinet with the PVV again hard shut. Their arrogant excuses are now even on paper, because that is what it is like not to talk to the PVV. This whole circus has nothing to do with democracy. The second party of the Netherlands should be the first to be invited to the negotiating table. The result of all this is the action of the Prime Minister, the political games being played, the exclusion of my party, which is that the chance is lost that there will really be a cabinet that will do what is necessary. It must make the Netherlands safer, ensure that terrorism is tackled and that there really is a stricter immigration policy. That majority was there after the elections on 15 March. What will happen if the negotiations with the Christian Union, as suggested by the informant, succeed? We will then formally have a Cabinet-Rutte III, but in reality I fear a Cabinet-Pechtold I. It is Mr Pechtold who is pulling all the strings, as it turns out. Even the Prime Minister, who has just been mentioned in an interrupting debate, is chattering him about the connection of conservative and progressive. Pechtold I, worse half of the Netherlands can't imagine. The man who kicked the shins out of my colleague Segers first, and then faked friendship during a dinner in which half the Dutch press had been summoned by him. Such a cabinet will result in more European Union, more climate crap, more immigration and probably more Islam in the Netherlands. A Pechtold I cabinet is the worst nightmare for me, my group and my constituents. Please don't let that happen. But if there is, I can assure you that from day one, we are going to have one tough opposition. We would have liked to have ruled along, so would our constituents, but we are excluded. If that is not possible, do not count on us when it comes to our support. We're gonna have a hard-on opposition. So I say: wet your chest, because we will never abandon the Netherlands, even if you exclude us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u26	It is raining crocodile tears again from Geert Wilders: he cannot participate, it is not democratic, nobody wants to hear his opinion. Last Monday the parties who are not going to negotiate were invited by the informant to tell us what the important themes are. That was the time to talk about migration, about terror. That was the moment to exert influence. I find it incredibly cheap that Mr Wilders, who is here 10, 20, 30 years in the House of Representatives and is paid by the Dutch to do his job, was sick and had no time, did not want to tell him what had to happen, but here again complains that he should not participate. There's an invitation coming up, then you go there and then you tell me what you think. Then you shouldn't come here with cheap crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u27	Of course, I saw the interruption coming from 100 kilometers. We should have been invited, Mr Asscher, as the second party of the Netherlands. We didn't make 9 seats, we made 20 seats. We are the second party of the Netherlands. One and a half million people voted for us. We should have been invited to negotiate. We should have been invited to the negotiating table. Those negotiations might not have worked. That can happen, because no one knows in advance whether it will succeed, but to not even try and not even be invited, that is too embarrassing for words and indeed undemocratic. Our constituents, 1.5 million people, are offended that parties like the VVD and the CDA haven't even tried to talk to us. If that happens, and if there are any further letters from the leaders of the two parties, in which this opportunity is thrown completely into the trash, then I am not going to go pro forma on an invitation in........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We're not crazy Harrie. If you want to know, invite us to the negotiating table. I've asked here 500 times, and if that doesn't happen, figure it out, then we're going to run opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u28	The applause I hear from the PVV group for the leader is now ready or will there be another round? It wasn't for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u29	It always sounds harder with 20 than with 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u30	Mr Wilders has won five seats, but he is standing here with 20 seats wallowing in a victim role. He's standing here crying crocodile tears. He says, "I'm not invited, and if I'm invited, I'm not coming, I'm going to have a good opposition. What kind of behavior is that? He saw this interruption coming about 100 kilometers away. He should have come up with a better answer. This is not an answer. All he's saying is we won the election, but we're pathetic, because nobody wants to know our opinion. You will be invited by the informant, who has been appointed by the House of Representatives, to tell us what you think should be done. You let that opportunity pass and stand here singing the familiar song again. That's what your own twenty seats are clapping for. But you're making yourself a loser instead of translating that election victory into the House of Representatives. That's our job, whether you have one seat or 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u31	Nothing new. Mr Asscher simply repeats what he has already said. He's acting like I didn't answer at all. That's a little weak interruption, to be honest. I would like to repeat it again if you will, Mr Asscher. We weren't invited to come and negotiate. You've been invited to negotiate with your nine seats. You didn't do that. That's your right. We have 20 seats, more than twice as many as your party, with one and a half million voters. If anyone had earned a place at that negotiating table... The second party of the Netherlands! One and a half million people. Winner of the election. They didn't even try to reach an agreement. I've asked here twenty times: invite us. I asked previous informers: ask us at the table. None of that happened. If, at the end of the day, an informant's conclusion is reached, everyone saw that coming after you had not taken responsibility, Mr Asscher, and said no to the fact that there will be a coalition with the Christian Union, or at least that it will be investigated, we should not be asked to tell them what to do. I will tell you what we are going to do: stand up for our voters and stand up for them. If elections were to be held, the voter will show how he feels about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u32	Madam President. We are debating the progress of the formation today, and that is certainly not the first time. The election was three and a half months ago. Formations have been easier. It is time for substantive negotiations to begin. After all, the Netherlands is entitled to a cabinet that has an answer to the great concerns that the Dutch still have. Concern about the threat of radicalisation and terror. About immigration and integration. About the loss of security and protection in times of globalisation. About the future of our care. About preserving our values and our identity in a changing world. After the elections, I said on behalf of the CDA that we preferred a stable majority coalition of up to four parties. I have to say, getting there is easier said than done. This formation has so far resulted in a process that we all have to think through. It sometimes seems as if it is not the forming of a coalition, but the damage-free maneuvering to the sidelines is the highest goal of the parties. Opposition as a safe haven in turbulent times. Opposition even before there's a coalition. The elections have just been held, but it seems as if the next election campaign has already started. On 14 June I read the section De Speld in de Volkskrant. I don't know if I'm the only one, but I always start reading the Volkskrant in the back. This time I must say that the humor was frighteningly close to reality. This is what it said: "After eighty days of negotiations, politics is out: all thirteen parties of the House of Representatives go into opposition. Today, formatter Herman Tjeenk Willink presented an opposition agreement. The opposition agreement contains a number of striking elements. It has been agreed not to agree on climate and migration. The parties also promise to attack each other hard, in the Lower House and in the media." Everyone in opposition. It is a persiflage, but it is worrying that after more than 100 days there is still one option that is going to be negotiated, an option that has no more than a majority of one seat in both the Second and First Chambers. It's something we all have to think through. Madam President. Now that we are here, I would also like to say that I respect the courage of the Christian Union, in particular, to take that leap after all that has happened in this formation. And it is to D66's credit that it has passed over the previous objections, because some people see that only opposition in this Chamber will ultimately not work. The CDA is therefore extremely motivated to make these negotiations a success. That VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnie have come together is thanks to Herman Tjeenk Willink. I say that without reserve, because it is his calm, consistent step-by-step approach in a very turbulent environment that has led to this result. Really, it could have been a whole other way. Herman Tjeenk Willink is waving off now. The CDA thanks him and I thank him personally. I would add that the entire Chamber owes him a great deal of thanks to the possible coalition and the potential opposition. Last Monday, the informant invited the parties who will not participate in the coalition talks. It's new and it's an idea from the informant, but it's a good idea to list their priorities as well. I realise that there is a mutual task in this: for the coalition to broaden the narrow majority base where possible, but also for the opposition to build, where possible, the future of our country. The negotiations that are about to start are not going to be a speed contest for the CDA. The formation process starts again, as if it were March 15th. The CDA is concerned with care and the content of the coalition agreement. The CDA supports the VVD's proposal to ask Gerrit Zalm to follow up as an informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u33	A fine speech by Mr Buma, but how does it relate to the following quote by Mr Buma that I read: 'Before we sign something, we get very angry about it. That's what we stand for at the CDA. The Netherlands deserves a party that divorces word and deed."?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u34	That's from an interview I gave to De Speld. The point of De Pind is, and other news items should not take over, that is not checked whether what you have said has actually been said. However, I acknowledge: The Pin is the truth and the rest is only fiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u35	Madam President. "A coalition of guts"; this typification is from former Christian Union leader, Arie Slob, recently on the radio. He anticipated a positive outcome of the forthcoming coalition negotiations. He understood very well, he said, that D66 would rather rule with GroenLinks or with the PvdA than with a second Christian party. However, he was able to imagine that if the first preferences were impossible, D66 would behave pragmatically and take responsibility. If Mr Slob defends pragmatism in his own circle with equal enthusiasm, then things will be fine between Christian Union and D66. It is true that GroenLinks, the SP and the PvdA, three left-wing progressive parties, did not have the guts to stick their necks out and take that responsibility. In doing so, they abandoned the opportunity to use their ideas and creativity for a government agreement with ambition in the areas close to them and D66. I still find it regrettable and unnecessary that GroenLinks has dropped out. Also with the negative attitude of the SP and the PvdA I have difficulty, although I can at least justify it from the PvdA. With a loss of 29 seats, it is difficult to deny a party the right to take time for reflection in the luwte. After yesterday, however, I have the feeling that this luwe has not yet been found and is not yet being sought. So the hard facts are there. The informant's final report clearly leaves no doubt to be desired. SP and PvdA don't want to, not now, never. Well, I guess I don't have to assume that now or ever. It is, of course, asking the gods to hope for a state of emergency to bring Mr Asscher in. In addition, I got the impression that the Belgians would invade us with the cavalry to goat. Well, let's not hope so. Voters have given my party quite a mandate to rule and not to stand on the sidelines. It is therefore not my intention to disappoint them. If it can't be done the way it has to be done, then it has to be done the way it can. Then we go for the most workable alternative: the combination of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristianUnion. We have told the people that the country is served by cooperation, with a stable cabinet from the middle, linking progressively and conservatively. I may be pragmatized, but I hold on to that ideal. The basis on which a cabinet of this composition rests is shaky. A comfortable majority in both Rooms is missing. The balance between progressive and conservative risks going out of balance. The guarantees of greater stability and balance must lie in a coalition agreement, an agreement by which the coalition can look beyond its own political groups and its own supporters, an agreement by which the cabinet and coalition parties can and wish to overcome political and social contradictions through their attitude and appearance. It can lead to a stable, fruitful cabinet period. In any case, it will benefit the dualism between the Chamber and the Cabinet. We are going into the next phase, unfortunately without the inspiring leadership and guidance of informant Tjeenk Willink. He brought us here. There is no transcendent stairs for my previously expressed appreciation. It was formidable, and it remains so. My group thanks him and his staff. People are going on vacation soon, waiting for it to be settled there, in The Hague. It's about time. If I'm gonna start something, I want it to work, too. Honesty commands me to say that I don't always get my way. Something doesn't work out. I would just like to say that if that happens, it is not up to me, and certainly not to Mr Zalm, if the Chamber appoints him as an informant. I know him from a distant past as a very persistent man.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr. Chairman. Many words of appreciation have already been expressed to the informant. I would like to join in that. His systematic and meticulous way of working, which I experienced for a time, was an inspiration and has now allowed four parties to negotiate: the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union. These right and middle parties are going to try together to form a cabinet. That'll get you to a center-right cabinet soon. The happier I was to read that this cabinet wants to connect right and left, progressive and conservatively. If you want to do that, it requires a cabinet that does more than add a sum of measures into a government agreement. It must be a cabinet with a shared vision of society, the role of the government and the future of Europe. I sincerely hope that the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union can achieve this shared vision. The next cabinet will face major challenges. It's been memorized a lot. Think, for example, of countering global warming. Mr Tjeenk Willink was right to say at the press conference on 31 May that the implementation of the Paris climate agreements will have a profound impact on the whole system of production, distribution and consumption. Failure or failure to perform in good time leads to major natural catastrophes. This calls for a cabinet that dares to make choices and does not hide behind the European Union. I am also thinking of the great socio-economic uncertainty of people, the growing income inequality and the rapid development of each other in the European Union. These challenges call for broad support in the Lower House, not only because of the tight majority in both the First and Second Chambers of the four parties that are now going to negotiate, but mainly because these challenges extend beyond one cabinet. This calls for room for discussion between cabinet and chamber. Mr Buma said that this is a shared responsibility of the coalition and opposition. We will take that responsibility. GroenLinks will be as constructive as ever. We do not oppose a cabinet, we oppose our ideals. I wish the negotiators of the VVD, the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union much wisdom in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the informant, Mr Tjeenk Willink, for his work, for his way of working and for his report. I can fully endorse colleagues' previous compliments. "To form a government is to count more than 76 seats." These wise words spoke Mr Tjeenk Willink last week. Forming a government is making agreements on the country's substantive direction. How are we going to handle the division? How do we regain people's trust? How do we strengthen the sense of community? How do we strengthen the government? From the beginning of the formation, they were looking for a fourth party that would like to join the right-hand block of VVD, CDA and D66. GroenLinks tried this twice, but it failed twice. Now the Christian Union is going to try. It won't be easy. There are major differences of substance between these parties, as we saw earlier in an agreement between Mr Segers and Mr Pechtold. I am therefore curious to see where this will lead. However, after yesterday's votes and Mr Rutte's words in the first term, I hold my heart. What kind of cabinet is this gonna be? Did we get a preview yesterday: bonuses up and not the own risk down? We'll wait and see. Many people also expect a change of course from a new cabinet, namely less market and more humanity, less division and more solidarity, investment in society and in each other. Our country needs a cabinet that strengthens democracy and gives people more control over their work and their neighborhood. People need to be able to count on the government for care, an affordable home and a safe and liveable neighborhood. Differences in income should be reduced. The rights and security of workers should be strengthened and the power of capital reduced. However, the question is whether this is possible with this centre-right combination. In the coming weeks we will see that and we will see if there will be an agreement. I would like to inform these parties that, when they come out, we will actively support all proposals that promote human dignity, equality and solidarity. However, we will fight everything that goes against it. Mr Zalm may be elected as a new informant today. It doesn't make the SP happy. From a former banker, Shell Commissioner and neoliberal finance minister who wanted to sell Schiphol, to privatise benefits, to deregulate the financial sector and have a DSB past, we do not expect a new investment programme, green politics or social policy. But of course it is a choice of the negotiating parties. We would have preferred Mr Tjeenk Willink to continue. My question to him is: has he been asked to do so at all? We will therefore not respond enthusiastically and therefore do not support Mr Zalm becoming the next informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u38	I do not want to hide the fact that when I was talking about parties trying to maneuver to the sidelines without damage, I was also thinking specifically of the SP. The way in which Mr Roemer is speaking now proves that, because there is no coalition at all, but Mr Roemer is telling us what is going to be wrong about that coalition. Here's what I'm asking him. If you now look back at the choice you made to try to go to the sidelines without damage, do you not feel that it would have been much better for your voters if you had participated in expressing your ideals for the first time in a cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u39	I would have loved to, but you slammed that door yourself. You blame others a lot, but you close the door to the right and to the left. I understand that you would like a coalition with a right-wing engine block, but do not expect the left-wing party in this Chamber to be willing to join and support right-wing policies for the coming years. No, I don't regret that. So ask all the voters of the Labour Party what that has achieved in recent years. I stand for my ideals and my choice. If I want to sit in a cabinet, which I would like to do, then I also want to change course, change starting points. But we're not gonna make that happen with a 14-to-71 block. I am not going to do that because it is an unfeasible card and it does not correspond to what we have promised the voters before. In any case, we are a party to this promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u40	I'm just thinking about how you do that, making a promise without actually moving anything. Because, of course, that's the easy thing you're doing. From day one you will undoubtedly realize all your ideals, but by lifting a finger you will not change the world you could have changed. What I find weird is that it leads to the question that I would like to follow. Now the informant has asked you to write a letter. In the end, that happened in an oral story from you, if I understand it correctly, which was then written down. In it you write that you do not want to cooperate with the VVD because this party is the architect of one and so on and so forth on the basis of its basic principles. "Fundamental principles"; I can only read that in one way. As long as the VVD doesn't change its fundamentals, I don't know when that party is going to do that, thinking in your direction.The SP will never be in a coalition that includes the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u41	I think this is an extremely good advice from you to the VVD. Let that party do that in the first place. What you really want to say here is that it does not matter to the electorate which party they are going to vote for, and that we are sitting here with 150 members, all of whom can easily join together, as if we do not have great ideals that can be fundamentally different from those of others. If you're in the middle and you want to be able to work with everyone, a little with this one and a little with that one, that's your choice. We have a clear starting point, a clear picture of society, the economy, and a clear picture of people. And yes, that is contrary to what the VVD wants to make of this society and has made of it over the past 30 years. Then you should not find it strange that I say that, if I really want to change course, I am not going to do that with the founding fathers of that neoliberal policy. I'd have liked to have done it another way. I would have liked to have done it with your party, too. You slammed that door yourself. That's okay, but we tried. One last comment. It also shows dedain to say that from a strong opposition role you can't get anything done. The fact that we had almost managed to reduce the risk of care here, with the exception of a single vote, which your party has still blocked, while you had it in the election programme, shows what you can do with a strong opposition if you take with you and mobilise society. Since we entered into this fight, more and more parties have taken up our position that that own risk is something we must eliminate. So yes, you can achieve a lot from the opposition too, but I'm not going to throw my principles overboard to lean on a right-wing policy. That's not why the SP was founded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u42	Thanks for the applause I hear from the SP benches. If Mr Roemer is going to measure the strength of his arguments on how close he is to the majority, then he will be very successful with this coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u43	Maybe you should stick to the arrangements with your voter. You had it in the election program. You're voting against.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u44	My question to you is this. If it is so fundamental that it is about the basic principles of the VVD, how can it be that all over the Netherlands SP'ers, different from you apparently, work together in coalitions with the VVD on the basis of those same basic principles? That happens in Amsterdam, Zuid-Holland, Brabant and I don't know how many cities. It's two-and-a-half. Or you work together and then you accept the basics. Or you don't accept the basics and then you can't work together, even at local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u45	That's up to me. That's one. Two: Nice try. Here, in this Chamber, we determine the main principles of policy. At local level, it is mainly about the implementation of policies and how to shape them. That's a completely different situation. I experienced it myself on a local level in a coalition where I worked with the VVD, which then went excellent; a man a man, a word a word. That's what's good for them. This concerns the fundamental principles of economic, government, public services such as care and education, and whether or not to levelle. Those are the big things that we are talking about here. We are also dealing here with major international issues such as the policy of intervention in the Middle East, when you find that the principles of policy between the SP and the VVD are miles apart, then it is really an illusion to assume that you could get out of it together somewhere in the middle. Or it's a meaningless thing. Or we're gonna waste our own starting points, and I'm really not gonna do that, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u46	Last point, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u47	Then I have to admit that there is a much greater fundamental difference between the CDA and the SP than I always thought, because for a CDA, at whatever level it is, the basic principles apply. I suppose the other parties are also based on their own basic principles. When I say that I do not want to work together on the basis of a basic principle, that applies everywhere. If I say it's possible, it's possible everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u48	I wish you luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u49	When it comes to the basic principles of the VVD and not the policies we have pursued over the last four years, my question is why, in the run-up to the 2010 elections and in the run-up to the 2012 elections, Mr Roemer has taken the initiative to have lunch with me to discuss possible cooperation after those elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u50	Because at the moment we have made an explicit choice that the course must now be changed, partly inspired by the experience of the last four years in which VVD and PvdA sat together at the table and sat together in a cabinet. Then you see what it means in practice when you put such great fundamental differences together in a cabinet. Either big topics aren't solved, or you're gonna sit halfway down somewhere so your own supporters won't recognize you. The Labour Party has noticed this with its loss but the VVD has also noticed this with its loss. You saw it right away when the cabinet was only there for a few weeks and there was talk about the income-dependent contribution to care and what that brought about in your own constituency, where it would be a fundamental difference of opinion. That's what opened our eyes. That is why we have said that we want to let that oil tanker go to another port in the near future. This means that you have to fundamentally change course on essential issues, such as how we organise society, how we organise the government, how we deal with public services and how we deal with the economy and with income policy. I'd love to have a bite to eat with you and have a drink and then we'll get these subjects and then I'll be sure to say in ten minutes: nice man that Roemer, nice man who Rutte, we can talk about everything, but if we have to get out of these subjects together, then that's really not gonna be him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u51	I find this, quite frankly, a weak answer. The question was not whether Mr Roemer considered the policy of this cabinet to be wrong and said: I think that policy was wrong, the VVD contributed to that and so I do not want to rule with the VVD. It could still be. He says this is about the basics. Those basic principles of the VVD have been established since 1948, which have not changed fundamentally in all these years, and certainly not in the past ten to fifteen years. I'm gonna ask the question again. So when it comes to the basic principles and these basic principles are the problem, you are talking about a fundamental, almost fundamental problem. If that is the reason, why was the initiative taken to have lunch together before the 2010 and 2012 elections to discuss possible cooperation after those elections and to say now that I am not doing so anymore? So I repeat my question and now I would like to hear the real answer. Or, if I may help Mr Roemer a little bit, did he just make a mistake during the election campaign? Did he yell at him and paint himself in a corner with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u52	The latter is absolutely not the case. I think it is high time that elections were about a fundamental choice, not about sticking a patch here or adding an extra quarter or dime there. It is about the starting points, about the direction of the policy for the next four years. It was a good choice to say: do you choose to continue with the neoliberal policy of the last 30 years under the leadership of the VVD, or do you dare to go for a change, and then it will have to become a cabinet with the SP. But those two together in one cabinet, that's not gonna work. Then you won't get a change of course. Either one of the two parties or both parties are unbelievable for their own supporters. And that's not what I choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u53	Madam President. I thank the informant. I didn't expect anything less from him. I enjoyed Sybrand Buma's ironic speech. It's nice to quote De Speld here and then pour out your wrath from the pulpit on cheap opposition in times when the country's interest demands to participate. Beautiful! You can do that in the paper. I myself like the episode of De Speld that says: Jesse Klaver angry with the supporters; had just voted PvdA! I'm a fan of gallows humor. He did well with us. I have also listened in gratitude to Alexander Pechtold's speech, who stood here praised his own courage, and then said that opposing means most of all blindness and silence. This is not how I have experienced his task in recent years. I can reassure him: that's not how I'm gonna do it. The new cabinet, not Green Right but Right with the Bible, deserves a chance to formulate an answer to the big questions of this time. And they've come by: migration, climate, Europe. I think it is important that we also try to answer the questions that play much smaller, much more directly in people's lives. How are we going to shape job security at a time of robotisation and huge changes? How do you ensure safety in a world so restless? How do you ensure that there will be good care for yourself or your parents? If new protection, new security and new security can be achieved, then progress will come naturally. Then the optimism comes back. The Labour Party will support the proposals that contribute to this. And proposals that undermine that will be fought by the Labour Party. I wish the negotiating parties, all four, much wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u54	Mr. Chairman. On 16 March 5 members of the Christian Union walked in. Much less than 33, but also less than 14 and even less than 9. We're a small fraction with great ideals. Today, as a Christian Union, we are taking the step forward and expressing our willingness to negotiate with the groups of VVD, CDA and D66. That is a step on a road full of challenges because we are four very different parties. But we are taking that step with conviction. I admit that Mr Pechtold's rice table has helped, but I am taking this step mainly because we want to work on our ideals. The informant concludes in his report that the combination of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion is the last possibility for a majority coalition. We have all seen that from 16 March it has not been easy to achieve a workable majority coalition and we are still not there. That says something about the political polarization of our time, about the effort it takes us to work together, to compromise, to take responsibility. Even now, four parties appear to be prepared to risk it again. Four parties that instead of continuing to magnify the differences from now on are looking for what binds them together. It is, as the informer rightly writes, the reflection of what has made the Netherlands great, namely the desire to cooperate with each other because otherwise there is no room to differ from each other. I also hope that the policy in this Chamber will be supported by more than half plus one. I sincerely hope for broad cooperation. Cabinet participation and political cooperation are not an end in themselves. For the Christian Union, any government participation is a means of bringing our ideals closer. For example, we want to promote the future of our children, their education, clean air, clean energy and a good climate policy. For example, we want to make ourselves strong for a just society in which everyone counts, regardless of your age, your origin, your belief in life, whether you are sick or healthy. For example, we want to stand up for freedom, our freedom, which is becoming less and less self-evident at a time of attacks and terror. I would like to thank the informant very much for his impressive work. I agree with the final report he has delivered. I would like to thank him for his patience, his precise method of working with which he did not force anything, but which did lead us to conclude that I admit that at the beginning of his work as an informant was still impossible. A little miracle has taken place. We're gonna negotiate, on to a bigger miracle, a new cabinet. We're gonna talk without guarantee of success, but with the will to get out. Here's to bless you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Mr Tjeenk Willink very much for his efforts. His mission was at first instance to temporarily remove contradictions that were seen as unbridgeable. At the start of his assignment, Mr Tjeenk Willink was extremely clear about the importance of a green cabinet. He said: "It will not or will not be implemented in time for the Paris Climate Agreement to lead to nature catatrophes." Big words, but quite rightly in this case. The climate problem is taking on unprecedented proportions and can no longer be avoided with a polder agreement. We need revolutionary solutions and no maths about narrow majorities in this house or in the Senate. Leading members of the CDA and the VVD know that, but unfortunately do not agree with their party leaders. How can climate-friendly parties such as D66 and the Christian Union have the illusion to rule together with the CDA, which trivializes the climate problem and today does not even mention the great concerns that exist in the world and which the bio-industry wants to leave untouched. It means that the envisaged coalition will be virtually impossible to achieve a climate policy that is at least as ambitious or preferably more ambitious than the Paris Agreement. It is more than bitter that Mr Tjeenk Willink, who is very aware of the seriousness of the climate problem, is replaced by an informant of the VVD who, as a bean counter at DSB and the CPB, has proven to know everything about the price, but of nothing the value. Mr. Zalm grew up as the son of a coal farmer. Through a political career at the VVD he first became director of the CPB, then as chief economist of a Dirk Scheringabank and now as chairman of the Board of Directors of ABN AMRO. He is also Commissioner at Shell, the company whose top man said that global warming will not even affect Shell's value. The new informant is an exponent of old fossil thinking. From biology we know that after spawning the salmon dies of effort. A fate we do not wish for the new informant. But we are not at all reassured by the success of the information by this romantic accountant formed in the fossil age. Our appeal to the House of Representatives is to consider the joint task, arising from the climate issue, as a top priority. We all have to take responsibility for getting this cross-party issue anchored in all the debates and discussions we have with the future cabinet. We call on the forming parties to do the same, by including in their agreement far-reaching intermediate settlement climate targets. In this context, I also believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u56	Chairman. 50PLUS also thanks the informant for his work and his extensive final report. Again he proves that he is truly worthy of the title of Honorary King... I said "reking," but I meant viceroy. But you understood that. From that viceroy to the real king. I'm worried about the question of what his message should be on Prince's Day. What plans does he have to read out and whose plans? Are these the plans of only the VVD, of the VVD and the other negotiating parties, or indeed of the VVD and the Labour Party? All that's bad for the image people have of us here at home. And that image is not very good. It's getting worse because of all the dawdling we've been more than a hundred days ahead of us, certainly not better. I can imagine that many voters do not understand why a formation should take so long. What also bothers us is the fact that once again, just like a few weeks ago, the next informant has been appointed before the Chamber has discussed it. We first heard it in the media and now read it in the final report. Is it okay for the Chamber to discuss and decide? New in this round was the exclusion of parties, now in black and white, on paper. 50PLUS believes that excluding it in advance does not fit our order. Our order, with so many parties and just as many programs, is built on the tradition of working together and polding; not on the pre-excludement of large parties and therefore millions of voters. What 50PLUS appreciates in Mr Tjeenk Willink's conclusion is his efforts to make parties aware that some problems are longer than the period in which a new cabinet will remain. The concern that we here too often are concerned with the delusion of the day shares 50PLUS. In order to be able to look further, it is necessary that the newly formed government also takes seriously the opposition's desires and ideas. That is why we would like to call for a short government agreement. Set out guidelines on which there is agreement. That can be done quickly, without damaging due diligence. Show courage and leave dispute points open. Put that in front of the people's representatives. So for big issues as soon as possible, for other matters when they are on the agenda. Let us debate this together here in the Chamber and then make a democratic decision. Another tip: stop that craziness of forming in a secret place. Our country is too small for that. Within an hour, the place will be known. We do not need a national search by the media. If the four-piece envisaged does not come out, I repeat the possibility of a cabinet that can rely on 75 seats. No majority and no minority, but also with a minority cabinet 50PLUS has no problem. That much rather than endlessly form. If it comes to a minority cabinet, show confidence in this Chamber. Let the people's representatives talk and decide, so we honour democracy together and perhaps win back some of the voter's confidence. Finally. In the outcome of the negotiations, we also expect to see the vision of lowering the AOW age, maintaining our fantastic pension system and combating long-term unemployment, especially among older people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr. Chairman. Soon after the elections of 15 March, more than a hundred days ago, two variants for a majority cabinet emerged: VVD, CDA, D66 with GroenLinks or with the Christian Union. The first variant with GroenLinks has been tried twice in vain. The combination with the Christian Union, which we prefer, will now be investigated. It is a good thing that the obstacles have been removed. Now that on the longest day of the year D66 has seen the light, the path has been paved for substantive discussions. I thank the informant Tjeenk Willink for his final report, his valuable contribution to the smoothing of the information process. I also found it very useful to reflect in a session with parties that are not at the negotiating table and to identify issues that we consider important for a broad acceptance of precisely future challenges. In addition to the issues mentioned above, the SGP also drew attention to international security, a tax system that is in line with participatory society and the protection of vulnerable lives. Mr Tjeenk Willink rightly writes in his final report: forming is more than adding 76 seats. One of the lessons learned in the past is that mutual trust and good understanding are at least as important as programmatic agreement and numerical majority. For that reason, the shaky cabinet Van Agt/Wiegel once served the full four-year ride, and cut the firm cabinet Van Agt/Den Uyl, 109 seats, after six months. It seems to me that it is an important task for the Cabinet to gain a broader support for necessary changes than the minimum 76 seats, not only for climate and migration, but also for, for example, the much-needed strengthening of our defence. For an entrepreneur who wants to invest in sustainability and for investments in security, it is essential that there is no yo-yo policy and that you know where you stand. What they, and many with them, need is clarity for now and later. I wish the new informant, who is probably going to be called Salmon, and the negotiators much patience, wisdom and perseverance. Now that quite a few unpleasant things have already been said about the new informant, I would like to turn to some more positive notes. I've come to know him as someone with a lot of sense of humor, also useful in an information process. He has a long experience here and is perfectly capable of moving into the thoughts of parties that are not his. I am surprised that Mrs Thieme of the Party for Animals so turned on Salmon, because the salmon is an excellent animal that can swim so well against the current. Doesn't that need more in this time of year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u58	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a quote. "Governments and citizens live in a world that has its origin and destiny in God. The government cannot therefore be neutral, but should acknowledge that Christ is King [...]. Our constitution should reflect this. In a free society with a wide variety of views, the government gives good guidance when it constantly reviews its policies against the Bible. The government ensures that the media respect the honor of God. The legislation ensures the full protection of people's lives from conception to the natural end of life." This is a quote from the programme of principles of the Christian Union, the party with which D66 is going to negotiate. Having heard the above, I wonder how the progressive Pechtold looks at a government that constantly has to check its policy against the Bible. I wonder how Pia Dijkstra, who campaigned for a voluntary end of life, looks at the full protection of life. I wonder how Bas Paternotte, media spokesperson...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u59	Jan Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u60	Jan Paternotte, excuse. I wonder how Jan Paternotte, media spokesperson, looks at a government that ensures that the media respect the honor of God. I'm curious. The key question that DENK has in the new negotiations is: what changed at D66? We call for speedy progress in these unchanceless negotiations between VVD, CDA, D66 and Christian Union. We once again call on the PvdA to place the country's interest above party interests and to take responsibility if it is ultimately necessary. Partly because the result would be a cabinet with only one majority with one seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u61	Were you almost done? Oh, come on. Mr Pechtold will then have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u62	I'm gonna let it work on me, but I'm gonna have a cup of coffee with Mr. Kuzu. I'm told that's a big deal, and I like it myself. If you support a VVD and PvdA cabinet every week for years and then make such an incredible turn and start your own party, you'll have skills I'd like to listen to for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u63	Mr. Pechtold is always welcome to come by and learn how to keep your back straight, to hold on to your own ideals, not to go with the flow but to really stand what you really stand for. In that sense, he is cordially invited to come by and have coffee. Then we can talk about it. Therefore, it is important to look at the majority in the Chamber, a difference of one seat. In the worst case scenario, one Member of Parliament who is in traffic can lead to the fall of the cabinet. In view of the challenges facing the Netherlands, this is not in the national interest. I ask the informant to reflect on this fragile majority. The option to supplement this fragile majority by seeking support in advance on important themes in the Chamber rejects DENK. Firstly, we have no confidence that the VVD and the CDA can develop a long-term perspective on the constantly changing identity of the Netherlands that is inclusive. Secondly, DENK is not in the Chamber to support a right-wing cabinet but to fight a right-wing cabinet in substance and preferably to bring it down as soon as possible. Finally, about the informant. We thank Mr Tjeenk Willink very much for his efforts. The new informant, überkapitalist Gerrit Zalm, is one of the last things we think of when we think of a new cabinet that is working on combating discrimination and racialism, increasing the affordability of care, ensuring access to education and reducing income inequality. That requires someone with a social personality, not a banker who is a record-holder of market forces and privatisation. DENK will therefore not support his appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u64	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet of the Democracy Forum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u65	Mr. Chairman. What is happening here in the Netherlands, how democracy is being held hostage and the population is out of play, is exactly how I break the party cartel in my book! I've described it. It's the reason FvD was founded. The frustration among the population about the functioning of the cartel is the explanation for our success. The voter spoke on 15 March. We are the 150 Members, the representatives of the people's will. We are sovereign, and as a chamber we must guide the course of the country. All 150 of us have one vote and every time there are 75+1 votes on a subject, we can take a decision on that issue. We 150 should therefore simply vote on the most important issues and indicate the broad lines of what we want to go to. On some points, that will be a majority over the left and on others a majority over the right. For example, there is now a majority in favour of a strict immigration policy. Then let us vote on it immediately. There is also a majority in favour of investing in police and education. There is a majority in favour of reducing bureaucracy in care and less EU. We then seek experts, practitioners with expertise, to further develop this policy. The Court can then take a critical view of whether indeed the broad lines it has set out earlier are actually being followed. This is the way democracy should work. Everyone's welcome to join us. All 150 delegates have the same input and you get an optimal representation of the people's will. But what's happening? As easy sheep, this Chamber is being sidelined by bizarre backroom conversations led by politicians from the time of our parents and grandparents. I'm sorry to put it this way, I don't mean to be rude, but there's no leadership. There's no ambition. Jeroen Dijsselbloem is due until January 2018. He then completed his term as President of the Eurogroup. Mark Rutte is due until November 2019. New EU top positions will then be available. That's what's really at stake. Furthermore, the death of a real debate, a real clash of opinions, is a real democracy. Therefore, the PVV is excluded. It's a bizarre way of doing things. A flagrant violation of democracy which is never clearly held accountable. How long will that cordon take to take, if it's VVD and CDA? When's Wilders' probation gonna be over? Can Rutte and Buma ever answer that or do they never want to work with him? The one with those, which is not with those, breakpoints, papa days, confidence building talks and rice table therapy sessions: forming is dining. The Netherlands is so done with this. I accept the idea that you actually consider this happening here as a pointless ritual. Outside this room, people are just saying it to me. Many Members of Parliament say to me that they have long ceased to believe in it, in the debate here in the Chamber, in the difficult formation talks, in the election promises, in the breaking points and in the negotiations. These debates are plays. It's a big charade. We're out of this system. It's all gone. A complete life. Now one comes with old-timer Gerrit Zalm to relieve the cartel cardinal from the Middle Ages. Salmon, who goes into history as the man who has always traded in our beautiful guilder too cheaply for the euro with screaming VVD-gehinnik, so that the Dutch have lost hundreds of billions in purchasing power. What would your idea be for the Netherlands if you took this man off the market now? What did Rutte, Buma and Pechtold think when they proposed Gerrit Salmon? There can only be one answer: there is no idea. The established parties no longer have any ideas, no ambition at all. Empty. Yeah, they're shouting all kinds of things in the run-up to the election, but one day after that, everything was forgotten. The CDA has in its election programme that its own risk should be reduced by €100. Yesterday, the CDA voted against the motion to reduce its own risk by €100. The VVD is campaigning for less EU, but always signs for more in practice. This is the party cartel and that party cartel must be broken. It is time for a renaissance, a rebirth of our democratic system. The only thing that is needed for this is a change of mentality. This afternoon we could begin with a general vote on the major issues, such as immigration. We can then nominate experts and put them in the ministerial posts. It's really not that complicated. All parties can participate and participate on an equal footing. Within a week we have formed a new cabinet instead of this month-long formation circus. That is what the Dutch electorate can expect from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u66	Thank you. I see that Mr Tjeenk Willink can answer right away. I give the floor to the informant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u67	Madam President. As a result of Mr Kuzu's question, I have nothing to add to the report I have sent to the Chamber. It says, I think, enough in what has been achieved by consensus and what is the breadth that is sought. In this way, I hope, I have answered the many other questions that have been put satisfactorily. I would like to thank the Chamber for its trust and the staff for their hard work and, above all, to thank all my interlocutors in this information round, in particular the five group chairmen of Christian Union, GroenLinks, D66, CDA and VVD. They have made my work as an informant considerably enlightened and pleasant. Fortunately, the country has such integrity and kind politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you. I'm looking at the MPs to see if they need a second term. That is the case with Mr Rutte on behalf of the PVV, the recovery, the VVD. Mr Tjeenk Willink, you were so short that I had to switch. I call Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to make one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having taken note of the final report of informant Tjeenk Willink and its opinion on the cabinet formation;]] [[takes on board the content of this opinion;]] [[appoints Mr Zalm as an informant with the task of examining, with due regard for this report, the possibility of a cabinet consisting of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion seeking broad support for its policy in the parliament and reporting on it to the Chamber with an opinion on the progress of Cabinets;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Mark Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34700-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-28-tweedekamer-5.u70	After the suspension, we will vote on the motions that have been tabled.
