ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u1	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I say, in particular, to the Minister, that he has another obligation after this, but the debate will be followed by his fellow Members who are not praised. He does take note of the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u2	Yes, Mr President, I will even take note of the Minister's reaction with keen attention. Thank you for understanding. In these busy times, sometimes when you can't share yourself, and we're not there yet, you have to make choices. If you want to learn how to climb mountains, it makes quite a difference whether the instructor himself has ever climbed a mountain. Just when it gets tricky, you're not gonna be helped if an instructor just calls you a little book wisdom: look at page 34 how to do it! It doesn't really work that much differently in education. Those who wish to teach competently in the superstructure of HAVO or VWO will have at least first degree competence as a teacher. When we prepare students for higher education, we want to offer as much security as possible for good guidance. Leaving a decision on this matter to the competent authority is not a good idea. That is why this condition is also regulated by the law. To be honest, the SGP takes it for granted that this should also apply in full to the supervision of a PhD candidate. The most minimal requirement we are allowed to impose on a promoter is that he or she himself has been promoted. Besides professionalism, personal experience with the promotional process is also of great importance in order to be able to guide well. If the draft law no longer confers exclusive competence on the professor, at least this guarantee should be included. I would therefore like to hear the response to the Bishop/Duisenberg amendment (34355, No. 11). The government states that the Promotions Board should be completely free to appoint a promoter. That sounds generous, but don't we shoot from one extreme to the next? From a strict limitation to professors, we are actually going to an unlimited target group. Can the government indicate in what situations it would not be difficult for a promoter himself not to be promoted? Why do we not join the compulsory doctorate, for example in Flanders, Denmark, Norway and Sweden? The second point I would like to raise concerns international training. With regard to internationalisation, the SGP calls for attention to the quality monitoring of training offered abroad. The aim is to enable Dutch diplomas to be awarded to courses financed entirely abroad. What about the costs of accreditation, supervision and contracts with countries of establishment to be made for foreign training? In any case, public funds are allocated to these training courses. Is it reasonable for this to be charged to our budget? The government states that the possibility of supervision is a crucial requirement to be able to provide training abroad. This will be included in the General Measure. Why then is this fundamental form of supervision, this fundamental standard, not enshrined in the law? This is a bit of a legal question. We have then secured it better, assuming that this principle cannot be affected. There's an important bump ahead of us. The temptation is to dwell in detail on the plans of the University of Groningen for an annex in Yantai. But I understand that this item will be discussed in detail by colleagues with great enthusiasm. I'd like to leave them on that stage. I would like to leave it at that, Mr President. In fact, I have remained well within my speaking time. At that time, I'd like to book against a future overrun.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u3	Then you must be with a whole new regime, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u4	That's in sight, but we'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u5	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is passionately in favour of internationalisation of higher education. It is a great and important opportunity for our students to gain international experience. This can be done by internationalisation at home, as we call it "home," I say to the chairman by joint degrees.................................................................................................................................................................................... But internationalisation is also important for the Dutch knowledge economy. Among other things, because of our international and open attitude, the Netherlands has become the prosperous and highly developed country it is today. As far as the VVD is concerned, higher education institutions actively look for internationalisation, participate in the international summit and are a magnet for international talent. This improves the position of the knowledge-based economy of the Netherlands. For me, this is an abc. A: our institutions are of a high level. B: talent is looking for higher education, worldwide. C: we need talent for the future, with the demographic developments that exist, and to remain attractive as a location for companies and other organisations. Against this background, the VVD Group welcomes the Minister's proposal. I have a number of questions about this. With regard to the extension of the ius PhD candidate, I have the same question as Mr Rog has already asked. I will leave it at that, and that is also the amendment we have tabled. I say the following about the part about study-choosing activities for students from abroad. The bill stipulates that study-choice activities will also be compulsory for students with a foreign diploma. The explanatory memorandum states that these activities may also be organised at a distance. Does the institution still have the choice not to require study-choice activities? And doesn't this, if it did, create an impractical and unnecessary threshold to study in the Netherlands for the foreign student who reads that? After all, that international student already makes a very conscious choice for that particular college or university. I would also like to make a comment on the amendment that I have tabled with Mr Mohandis of the Labour Party. That's about the possibility of a three-year HBO for vwo'ers. It is important that HBO becomes more attractive for people with a VWO degree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u6	Is that amendment already in place, Mr Duisenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u7	Yeah, if it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u9	I would like to use this legal procedure to remove, together with the Labour Party, an omission in an earlier proposal that we have made, by tabling an amendment which will make it easier for the three-year HBO to be paid to vwo'ers. This has already been made possible by the Quality of Higher Education Act, but it is not yet possible for all vwo'ers to make use of it. This was a problem, particularly in the healthcare sector. This amendment will make it possible to offer the three-year HBO-bachelor for vwo'ers and as 180 ECTS, as well as 240 ECTS credits. If this amendment is adopted, when will it affect the offer of HBO institutions? I come to the letter of amendment concerning transnational education and the amendment of Article 1.19 of the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act. The VVD welcomes the possibility offered by the bill of setting up an entire training abroad, and the introduction of the consent requirement. Training abroad is in line with my general position on internationalisation in higher education, which I set out at the beginning of my speech. This is an opportunity. We are in good shape with our higher education institutions. Talent is looking for study worldwide. The Netherlands must be a magnet for that talent. If Dutch universities and colleges, such as Stenden, the University of Groningen, the University of Amsterdam or Maastricht University have these ambitions, perhaps even more in the future, then the VVD supports that. This is not new: not for the Netherlands and not for abroad. New York University, Johns Hopkins University and universities from Australia, England, Singapore and Canada are already taking the same steps. Similar is the announcement of interest from the University of Oxford to set up a branch in Paris. What is the Minister's position if foreign universities here in the Netherlands want to set up such an establishment? What possibilities does this offer for Dutch students and what frameworks apply? I believe that, when institutions choose, internationalisation at home and abroad is an added value for students. Of course, such steps cannot be taken without guarantees and consideration of the risks. This requires, first of all, a critical supervisory board. But we also agree with the additional legal framework, including the authorisation requirement proposed here. The Council of State sets out three conditions, with which I agree. Firstly, transnational education should not affect the quality and continuity of higher education in the Netherlands. Secondly, transnational education must be subject to the same, at least comparable, requirements as those of accredited training in the Netherlands and must be monitored. Thirdly, improper use of the State contribution in so far as transnational education is provided by funded institutions should be avoided. The introduction of the consent requirement in point 19 of Article 1 of the Higher Education Act and in the letter of amendment of December 2016 and the answer to the questions in the report provide a good answer in terms of the VVD to the guarantee of these three conditions. What matters is that, if you want to take a chance, you have preventively the best possible picture of the risks and provide safeguards for them. Then you have to ask yourself what you then do and what you should do reactively, should an event occur. Then what can be the consequences and what is your response? I see the Minister is well aware of this. For example, the definition of the consent requirement contains conditions, such as existing training, measures to ensure the quality of education, the security of personnel and the non-financial use of the State's contribution to foreign activities. The detailed report contains extensive considerations regarding supervision and enforcement by the inspection and NVAO, and how to act if there would be quality problems. In the note following the report, I see safeguards on the exclusion of public funds as pre-financing or as post-financing. I see issues concerning the access of the inspection to the site abroad and the unabated framework conditions of Article 1.6 of the WHW in relation to academic freedom. I believe that the consent required in Article 1 (9) is a good thing and, with all the texts around it, I am confident that an AMvB will look forward to it, should there be an application from an institution to start such a campus abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u10	We are now going to listen to an interruption by Mr Van Meenen, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u11	We, too, would like to look forward to this request. In fact, we all know that this application is already there, namely that of the University of Groningen, to start a branch of 10,000 students in Yantai, and I also think it is an academic hospital. That's what I want to talk about. After all, it is a wonderful story that Mr Duisenberg holds here in general, but the reality is rather harsh. It means that we are not just laying down a law here, but that it has also happened in China. In China, the law says that universities in China must have military training and lessons in Marxism. In view of previous motions by Mr Duisenberg, I wonder very much how he looks at this. But if that's the case, how does he look at this application? Can that application, in his view, with the AMvB coming, have a chance of success if this kind of demand in China is made by the legislator to this institution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u12	These are precisely the safeguards referred to and included in the AMvB. It is quite natural, of course, that if you try to do something abroad, as a contracting party that would be this university in this example, but I know that, for example, the University of Maastricht also wants to do business abroad, just like the Stenden University of Applied Sciences is in the middle. I did it myself, not in education but in business. That's when I signed contracts abroad. Then you're dealing with multiple parties that you're trying to bring together. That's just normal. The Netherlands can simply make its demands. If they are not satisfied because they cannot be met by the other side, then you do not have an award.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u13	Mr Duisenberg is sailing around my question a little bit. Let me give you examples that are just in Chinese law. Suppose these become requirements for starting education by the University of Groningen, is that still within the limits of academic freedom as far as Mr Duisenberg is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u14	I read in the Minister's reply that guarantees and demands are being asked about academic freedom and also about, for example, the maintenance of human rights. We are talking about relations between the Netherlands and that country. These kinds of things are included in that AMvB. That seems obvious to me. That may not be the answer you want to hear, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u15	I just can't get an answer. We all know there's gonna be an AMvB. My question is what the VVD's opinion is on this. There are simply demands: there is a need to teach Marxism, there is a need for military training, there is no free access to the Internet. Is it conceivable for the VVD that this stays on, in any AMvB, as something that may be asked by the receiving country? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u16	Just in front of all those people in the public gallery: an "AMvB" is a General Measure of Governance, with which we define things that we generally regulate in laws, more precisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u17	Once again, Mr Van Meenen, you have picked up or read that information somewhere; "it could be this or that,"...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u18	No, it's in the law in China. We can all read that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u19	It's not a mix-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u20	The Minister makes it very clear in her reply that this kind of matter is taken into account in the balancing framework she envisages. You'll probably be able to think of a lot more things. The first thing I was thinking about, you don't come up with that, but it's pretty important... is intellectual property, for example. How's that taken care of? That's the kind of business you just have to take with you. For the Netherlands or for, in this case, the university that wants to do this, this is one part of the contract. The other part is what that other party brings in. If it doesn't meet, you don't have a deal, it's that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u21	I also know the VVD as a party that likes a good separation between the public and the private domain. Does Mr Duisenberg agree with me that setting up an educational institution abroad from the Netherlands, by a public educational institution, is in fact a private and also a private funded company, and that the public funded institution in the Netherlands is therefore acting as a company abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u22	Sure, it's a private activity. But that's not the first time. Many private activities are being undertaken. That is also happening here in the Netherlands. There are also rules for this: what can be done, what is done in the reporting process? That is also the case here. If you go abroad, whether China or Germany or South America, there are certain rules. They're also in this bill. In the consent requirements there are further conditions for how you can separate that. I think and I know this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u23	Okay, that's fine. That is a very important point. That often comes back in discussions about mixing public and private. Think about the discussion about the position of housing corporations. The VVD uses a completely different starting point. Then it is also the case that we copied a public funded and here in the Netherlands under government supervision training in a private form abroad and that we then let go of the Dutch standards on accreditation and the like. Does Mr Duisenberg agree with me that there is a very special mixture of, on the one hand, taking responsibility from the public domain for the quality and content of education and, on the other hand, a business activity abroad which, by its very nature, would have little to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u24	No, I do not share that view, but of course I am very different from parties like GroenLinks and D66. For you, the glass is just empty. You don't see any opportunities in this. You do not want these institutions to profile themselves, which I am a little surprised about, by the way. A party like yours, as well as D66, often applauds globalisation and an open view of the world, but now that it comes to it, you disappear behind the dikes. In the case of Mr Van Meenen, perhaps I should say 'behind the canals'. That disappoints me a little bit. I'm in a different place. I'll take this as an opportunity. What about the quality conditions? If an institution such as a college takes Stenden abroad, it represents Dutch higher education. I therefore believe that it is important that there are safeguards in this legislative proposal and that it therefore states that the quality conditions there are the same as for Dutch education. That institution is the window for our Dutch higher education. That is why I think it is very logical that the same framework should be applied to the activities carried out by such an institution abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u25	I did not ask these questions because we are the main ones against internationalisation, Mr Duisenberg knows as well as I do that we are both in favour of this, but because they deal specifically with the chosen form. That is something that Mr Duisenberg is ignoring. It is not a question of 'internationalisation is good and any initiative is good'. The question here is whether the initiative as such can pass the test of criticism. I note that, in the eyes of the VVD, it is not a problem to copy a public funded and publicly supervised form of education in a private form abroad and to assume that the laws and rules of that country do not apply to that. In any case, the latter will not be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u26	If you are in favour of internationalisation, if we share that point of departure, I would say above all: look very openly with me at this bill. I think we really agree that it offers opportunities if you take such a step, but you also have to look at how you handle it properly because every step is at risk. I think I am looking at this as critically as you are, but I see no reason to say in advance: I don't like it at all. I think you can and you should take that chance. Actually, I hope you find the same thing. You say that there is a form of mixing, but I see it differently. I think it goes without saying that we are applying the same quality guarantees there. So you're gonna have to take care of that. If you don't get out of there with those parties abroad, you don't have a deal. You have to set the requirements in such a way that you as the Netherlands are comfortable with that step. If you don't get out of there, you won't get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u27	This is gonna be a repeat. Mr. Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u28	Maybe it's a good thing that I say to the front that my party doesn't belong to the cosmopolitan elite but that she hasn't closed the door to this bill either. An important weighing point for us is the arrangements you can make. It is extremely hard for my party that it seems that China can make all kinds of demands that have to be met under the responsibility of our university, for example when it comes to pumping into students, and I say this as much of a harmful ideology as Marxism. That seems to me to be something Mr Duisenberg should not want either. It is about geopolitical views and excluding people who do not think according to the way the Chinese government wants it. Does Mr Duisenberg agree with me that we should rule that out in the front and not engage in such experiments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u29	I understand your question, which is also in line with what Mr Van Meenen said. My answer is the same; I thought that answer was clear. That is to say that you give in advance within your contexts what the test of criticism should be able to endure. Yesterday, the First Chamber passed a law on the rule of law, the principles of the rule of law. That is what our higher education institutions must do. If we say that foreign establishments must also comply with the frameworks, these principles apply there. If conditions are set against them and do not match our academic freedom, you have no deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u30	I find this a reassuring answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u31	My follow-up question focuses on the knowledge acquired here that is exported to a foreign country. Does Mr Duisenberg agree with me that we should partly allow the costs of supervision and the revenues generated there to flow back to the country that has given these people the opportunity to make money there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u32	Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u33	Yeah, well, the way you're saying this right now. I have your amendment to point No. 15 considering that you and Mrs. Asante have been working together. It makes sense that if you bring teachers in there, you get a fee. The institution concerned will have to negotiate the level of such compensation and the reimbursement of additional costs. That way, I think it makes sense. I think I read in the amendment that it is also about repatriating positive results. I wanted to ask you about this, because that might be difficult in practice. For some countries this is not possible. You must then agree with your partner that you reinvest the positive result in the location. But reimbursement of the costs for what you're bringing in makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u34	Very briefly about Mr Van Duisenberg's sneer. If you don't entirely agree with everything in this law, you're obviously pulling back in his eyes right behind dikes or whatever. My party stands for internationalisation, but we do want to remain critical. I've just made a few comments. We have a proper system in which we determine what the law becomes. At the moment we decide that democratically, but a few months ago our king in China toasted with the president of that country the imminent success of this establishment. How does Mr Duisenberg look at this, also in the light of the AMvB that is yet to come, the conditions that we are going to set and so on? It's not cases that turn up somewhere. No, they're just in the law. See the business case, see the first link to the Chinese law stating that Marxist education must be given and military training must be given. It's about that connection. My party stands for internationalisation, but we do want to remain critical. How does Mr Duisenberg look at this, also in the light of the AMvB that is yet to come, the conditions that we are going to impose and so on? Those things aren't gonna show up now. No, they're just in the law; see the business case and the first rule. There's a link to Chinese law. It says that Marxist education must be given and military training must be given. How does Mr Duisenberg view this event in this context? Isn't that really bad again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u35	No. If you're doing business, I didn't do that in education, but I did it in other areas, and if you're at a certain stage, and for example, how am I supposed to say that in Dutch? If you conclude an agreement of understanding, a memorandum or understanding, then you can toast to it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u36	I only oppose English terms if they are really unnecessary. Citizen things are no problem at all, but we must try to talk here in such a way that the public gallery understands us as well. That's my only bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u37	There was agreement on a direction. It was also said that it was still very open. At that time they made a ceremony of that, but there were still many blows to the arm for matters that still had to be worked out and for the conditions under which business would run. I therefore think that this was a logical moment in the context of such a journey by the King, the Queen and the whole consequence of education and business and that everyone there understood that there was a toast to an intermediate stage, just as it is in many other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u38	Well, I don't know if they've noticed that in China. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u39	Moreover, I welcome Mr Van Meenen's remark that he is so in favour of internationalisation, because I was surprised that Mr Van Meenen had been the first to come forward with an amendment to delete this possibility for weeks before this legislative proposal was discussed. I therefore ask him to reconsider this and to consider whether the conditions laid down, which have also been clarified with all further questions in the further report, give D66 sufficient assurance and a sense of comfort to take this step. I think it would be nice to be told here by a broad majority in the Chamber that we want to do so and want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u40	Negotiations begin at an early stage of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u41	There is no such amendment at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u42	Isn't there? Oh. Okay, I'm glad. That's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u43	It could still come!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u44	No, that's okay; it's okay. I have told you about all the issues I have seen in the text about the authorisation requirement and about Article 1.9. I would like to hear from the Minister how she assesses the frameworks in all these texts in relation to the three conditions laid down by the Council of State and how she now sees them developing further towards a final review framework for a future application as an AMvB to be decided. Finally, I have a question about the supply of English and Dutch language programmes. At the moment, the regulations are such that a course is offered in principle in Dutch and, if there are good reasons for it, including the quality of education and the origin of students in another language. Of the 405 bachelor's programmes, 80% are offered in Dutch and 20% are offered in English. My question to the Minister is: are there sufficient alternatives, where courses are only offered in English, within that area, so within the HOOP code, if students would like to take a Dutch course? If not, is that explainable? Internationalisation is an opportunity for students, teachers, universities, colleges and the Netherlands. The VVD supports the government's ambitions for internationalisation. We therefore support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u45	Mr. Chairman. I very much enjoyed the fitness between the cosmopolites, especially when Mr Van Meenen of D66 was accused of "smell of sprouts" and of "hiding behind the dikes." Now he knows what that feels like! Many people experience the ideology of open borders as a problem, even as the big problem of today. Especially among our constituents, as we know, there are a great many, in the polls, for the time being, serious concerns about that ideology of cosmopolitanism, of globalisation, and in the wake of that about the almost unbridled immigration that has been set in motion and but does not stop. Education is like no other sector to be used to roll out this globalisation agenda. I am shocked, once again, when I see how much focus and money that could have been spent on education for our Dutch students and students is now leaking to that internationalisation agenda, which is being forced on us by the European Union but is also being embraced with surrender by our intellectual university elite. They want to start a branch of the University of Groningen in China! In China! We just talked about that. A Dutch university that spends Dutch educational money in China. Of course, all those teachers like no other are able to bring out the blessings and the need for that cosmopolitanization of education. Not a person who is critical about it; everyone wants to be one of the winners. After all, what is more beautiful than being highly educated and seeing the whole world as your home? You can go anywhere. You are part of an international multicultural elite who speaks its languages, who knows the way in New York, Dubai, Cape Town and Yantai, detached from the cramped Netherlands, where the assholes are piercing and wondering at the intellectual jet set that travels around the world. We are critical of this. I remember a report from a Dutch research institute: Make it in the Netherlands! It was yet another advice to generate extra immigration. Economic reasons were then put in place for this internationalisation agenda. In 2012, on behalf of the Ministry, the Welcome Report was published "The Economic Effects of Internationalisation in Higher Education." If we could believe the CPB then, we could count on the income that foreign students would generate. In 2011, under Rutte I, Secretary of State Zijlstra also spoke of a net cost of 90 million. At that time, in an AO, I indicated that I found that report vague and speculative, really motivated by cosmopolitan wishful thinking. The CPB increased a number of speculative revenues, such as those of Dutch students abroad and the contributions of foreign students through, for example, income tax through possible side jobs. The PVV prefers to give those side jobs to our own children. "Netherlands first," after all. The same applies to the expenses that foreign students would make and the financial contributions that foreign students would make if they stayed here and worked. It wasn't about hard numbers at the time; it was all assumptions. That whole note was written with wordings such as "a general conclusion," "probable contribution to prosperity" and "it is conceivable that mobility can contribute to educational quality on balance." Also today, in the explanatory memorandum, we see another phrase about strengthening student mobility: "This from the conviction that new forms of cross-border cooperation promote the quality of education in the Netherlands and abroad." That is not an objective statement. A belief is ideology. Meanwhile, we're in 2017. I suppose it's all different now. That's what the following questions I'm asking the Minister about. What are the overall costs and benefits of the internationalisation agenda? What are the effects of internationalisation as a whole on the education budget? How much does the EU contribute to the Bologna process? What are the effects of internationalisation on the education budget? How much does the EU contribute to the Bologna process? What are the effects on the status of the Dutch language as the language of the academia? I think it is important to establish this here. Mr Duisenberg referred to it for a very short time, but I will go a little further. That status has been under pressure for years, and that is outrageous. Our beautiful Dutch gets the status of an insignificant and insignificant dialect. Internationalisation in higher education is necessary; let there be no misunderstanding about that. It has always been there, but the numbers were small and the internationalisation was to judge the science itself and to assess the market. I am thinking, for example, of specializations that industry is working on. Internationalisation as an objective rather than as a means: we are not in favour of it. We'll see that happen here. Even now we are going so far that, for example, we set different standards for joint degree programmes than for our Dutch programmes. These are rules on tuition fees, on the effectiveness test and on accreditation. That's impossible, isn't it? Why should we favour international training and assess it more flexibly than our own Dutch courses? If that is possible, I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I have also raised the major imbalance between the incoming and outgoing students. Look at the diploma mobility in 2011-2012. The number of foreign students in the Netherlands was 60,550. About the number of Dutch students abroad that were opposed during that period, there were no figures, but for comparison I look at the period 2009-2010. In that year, 53,150 foreign students were in the Netherlands compared with 18,100 Dutch students abroad. That's a huge imbalance. What are the recent figures? There's got to be one if you're gonna set up a major operation like this. Then it's all just gonna have to come out. The internationalisation obsession, so to speak, has meanwhile gone so far as to open a branch in Yantai in China at the University of Groningen. Because China, as can be seen in its university magazine, is a huge growth market for universities. A growing market. So she's going to realize a copy of the University of Groningen in Yantai. Here we go again. Educational tax money that should have been used for the Dutch public benefit is used by over-ambitious and overactive university administrators to start an exotic Chinese adventure. They are well-spoken as they are, and they know how to get the hands of this minister. Come on, Minister! It's about education, and that's not commodity, that's not export product. If education already has a growth market, it is here, in the Netherlands. Education money should only be spent on the children of Dutch taxpayers. That's not meant for foreign adventures. I agree with the warning given by Mr Grashoff, who is also not enthusiastic about this kind of adventure or the mix of public and private money. In all forms of education, from the MBO and the HBO to the WOK the vo has less trouble with its audience and private money so mixed that at some point they can no longer be picked apart. It can't be deciphered anymore. We don't have any good memories about that. So my final question to the Minister is whether she wants to stop this miserable foreign adventure in China.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u46	Mr. Chairman. "Too good to be true." "We drove off on campus and the buildings were getting bigger and bigger. Then we started talking about investments and it turned out to be even better than too good to be true." These statements by lecturer Poppema of the University of Groningen are in the Volkskrant. He's like a kid in the toy store. Actually, you already know enough: prestige and delusion of grandeur. The next megalomaniac project is in the pipeline, because the University of Groningen wants to build an elite campus in China. The first question I have here today is why this has suddenly to be dealt with in such a hurry. This prestige project in Yantai can only start after the Minister has given his consent and that consent can only be given if the General Measure of Management has been dealt with in the Lower House by this summer. Haste rush is rarely good. The lecturer's argument for starting an elite campus in China is that fewer students have been enrolled in Groningen for years. Less students means less money. Less money means less staff. The university does not necessarily need to grow larger, but certainly not smaller, says the college president. And that is why, according to this lecturer, more international students are needed. But isn't it true that a question to the Minister is that the Yantai students, the students from China, aren't making direct money for the University of Groningen at all? Because a foreign establishment should not be financed by public money. The tuition fee of €12,500 per year is cost-covering according to the college president. The increase in student numbers is therefore not making any money at all. I ask the Minister what exactly is going on here. Why exactly is this campus needed? It doesn't pay for the University of Groningen, it's not going to stop the lower student influx because these students are just about to spend 100% of their study time in China. It is very likely that lecturer Poppema would like to press through a major project before his retirement, a megalomaniac project in China for elite students. For who in the lower income classes can contribute €12,500 per year to tuition fees? If we make an assessment then the SP thinks that this is only affordable for parents' children at the top of the Communist Party and children of wealthy parents in China, the Netherlands or elsewhere. What do we want? Is that exactly the exchange we seek in the international field of higher education? Apparently, Poppema wants to take care of himself for a while. Less students in Groningen and more work in China. The director Poppema also claims at high and low levels that the University of Groningen, the university itself, is not at any financial risk. Megalomaniac drivers tell you that all the time. But how can the Minister guarantee this 100%? Half a million have already been set aside for the preparations to set up this campus. Is it true that this is only private money and that no public money has been invested? What happens if the project runs smoothly in China, if it doesn't turn out to be so successful? Where exactly can these students go? The SP is in favour of strengthening international networks and facilitating student exchange, but this can already be done at the moment, and this is already happening, which was also referred to by the VVD. Then why exactly is this change of law necessary on this point? The Minister says that academic freedom must be guaranteed. However, China is a country on which Amnesty International writes: freedom of expression and assembly and freedom of religion are strongly linked in China. China's Internet censorship system is reported to be the most advanced in the world. Torture is prohibited by law, but still takes place frequently during detention and detention. And the list of oppression is much longer. The Minister seems to be taking a first step with this law, which can lead to this madness, this oppression being simply facilitated, because guarantees in the accreditation will not last against countries with such a track record. The way China deals with the free press is not really a textbook example. How can the Minister agree to this? Academic freedom is an absolute prerequisite for every university, isn't it? How does the Minister see this? Suppose a critical lecturer holds a highly critical lecture on human rights violations and torture in China. Can he do that in Yantai? What does the Minister think? Does she think this teacher is gonna get into trouble or not? Does she think this teacher is under pressure or not? Does the Minister rule out censorship or self-censorship? In replying to questions put by my colleague Jasper van Dijk, the Minister said he was rather eager to accept them. Nevertheless, the university council is only able to get information about this project. The Staff Group and the student party List Calimero wanted to make a statement about Yantai but were flagged back by the university board. In order to meet the two political groups in the university council, a joint letter was sent to the minister. The content of this letter must remain secret within the university world. I would like the Minister to make this letter public. Is she willing to do that? When these groups wanted to make a statement, College President Poppema feared that a statement from the University Council would put a line through the plans. That puts sources close to the university council. Which games are played here exactly? Does the Minister exclude that the Yantai articles in the University Newspaper have been censored, as a former chairman of the University Council indicated on Twitter? Earlier, a motion by SP colleague Jasper van Dijk was adopted which states that university journals should be independent. Does the Minister agree with the Chamber, and if so, will she find out exactly what happened to the University Newspaper in Groningen about these articles? It is also far from right with participation. The Staff Group in the University Council was initially surprised that the change of law was discussed so quickly, we read in the University Newspaper. In the university council, there is growing frustration about the process. Requests for more information are only being met in a limited manner. What exactly is the deal with this participation? I'd like to know about the Minister. Does the Minister estimate that this project has support? The co-determination council, in its own words, has only agreed to a preliminary examination of the advantages and disadvantages of opening up branch campuses in general. As far as the SP Group is concerned, a far-reaching decision such as this must be supported by participation. There is no clear support now. The board is hiding a lot of information, and the council has passed. Is a referendum at the university an option for the minister, because this is an important decision? The SP is for that. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. The sale of values must stop, and we also have our stomachs full of large, megalomaniac projects of administrators in education. A university should focus on the quality of education and research. International cooperation with other universities is fine, and exchange of knowledge and students as well, but please stop this madness. Retreat this law and do not authorize this branch in China.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u47	When I got social studies and history in high school, I always learned that socialists are rather international. I now learn that the SP warns against Marxism and Communist thinking in China. That is very wonderful for me, but also interesting to hear. Does the SP now believe that only international cooperation is allowed, but that it should not under any circumstances be allowed for a university or university to establish itself in part or entirely abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u48	Nice joke by Mr. Rog about Marxism. I really did not expect that in this debate, of course. If I had been him, I would have. We are not against internationalisation, as I said. An exchange of students is fine, branches are fine. But it has to be equal. At the moment, a quarter of students also have to come to the Netherlands, if a university has a branch abroad. In the case of Yantai that would mean that the Chinese students would also come to the Netherlands for a year. Well, we're not against that at all, but only 100% abroad... There are still a lot of questions to ask, some of which have already been asked by others. I am thinking of the public investment of money and supervision. That's a big deal. If you offer a 100% training abroad and you do want to monitor from the Netherlands, that means something. We are not necessarily opposed to internationalisation or exchange, but it must be done properly. In this campus there are some questions to be asked, especially as regards the way in which decision-making takes place in Groningen and participation is excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u49	I give the floor to Mr Rog, who was apparently satisfied with Hegelian dialectics and progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u50	Mr. Chairman. That would almost be my first remark: it seems as if we are dealing here with the Yantai Act, while I think it is the Promotion of Higher Education and Scientific Research Act. We have made a critical written contribution to that law. We have received many clear and reassuring answers from the Minister to our questions. That does not alter the fact that I will look at a number of points about the law itself. At the end of my speech I will briefly discuss the situation of the University of Groningen and the ambitions in Yantai. I'll start with the profiling fund. This law makes it possible for students who continue to study abroad to claim the profiling fund. The CDA has tabled an amendment to delete that possibility. In our opinion, institutions in the Netherlands should, in particular, provide financial support to students in administrative positions, who have a disability or chronic illness or who have top-level sports companies. By the way, my group continues to believe that this should separate people who are disabled or chronically ill from the other groups. But it must be Dutch students at the Dutch institutions. Does the Minister agree with me that any extension of the claim to the profiling fund would mean that there would be less money left for students at Dutch higher education institutions? Does the Minister agree with me that it would be better if we did not make it possible for the profiling fund to be used in foreign countries as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u51	The Minister writes in the note following the further report that the participation council has the right of assent to the institution scheme for the profiling fund. That profiling fund is intended for profiling. It could very well be appropriate for a higher education institution to finance such international studies. Students could be pleased if this is financed from this. Does this amendment not unnecessarily deprive students of the opportunity to participate in such exchanges?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u52	Yes, Mr Duisenberg is right to read out the Minister's reply, but also what we intend to do with this amendment. In the end, we simply have to recognise that we are collecting tax money for education and specifically for higher education and that we are giving universities and colleges the opportunity to profile. As far as the CDA is concerned, that money goes to Dutch students here at our institutions and we are not going to pass it on to foreign institutions, whether through participation or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u53	For the sake of clarity, we are talking about the amendment to item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u54	In my view, the idea is not that it should go to foreign institutions through participation. The idea is that it would support Dutch students who want to go abroad. You can imagine that there are students who may not be able to pay for such an exchange themselves, but who might be able to do so in an institution. So it's an opportunity. It's an opportunity for students, but it could also be an opportunity for the institution to profile. I thought we all wanted institutions to be able to distinguish and profile as much as possible in the educational landscape with these profiling funds. You're taking away a chance with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u55	This is about making a choice for which you want to make that money available. The Minister chooses to make it possible for that money to go with students abroad. The CDA makes a different choice and concludes that at present there are other scholarships and opportunities for students to take advantage of to study abroad. It is indeed a political choice that we are making. If we want to support people in the Netherlands, we must do so here in the Netherlands and not abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u56	Mr. Rog continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u57	In the report, we also raised the question of why the government has opted for a so-called 'can' clause in respect of the consent requirement, rather than introducing this requirement directly into the law. The CDA considers that in all cases the authorisation requirement should be checked. That is why, together with Mrs Asante of the PvdA, I have tabled an amendment to delete that provision and to incorporate the requirement for consent directly into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u58	That is the amendment to item No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u59	I am very glad, Mr President, that you have that ready, because I do not have that, so I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u60	Then you must be with the clerk sitting right next to me. It is more useful for the debate if I may mention it. Then everyone knows what we're talking about, including people who are watching or listening remotely. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u61	May I, through you, also thank our praiseless Griffin for that? Only institutions with unconditional accreditation are eligible for the start-up of transnational education if they meet all the conditions. The CDA wonders whether this even applies to the first unconditional accreditation that an institution receives after having obtained conditional accreditation for that purpose. The Minister wrote that she would take this point into the AMvB and I wonder what conditions the Minister will set in this regard. As an example, I would like to mention two rounds of unconditional accreditation or otherwise. In response to our questions, the Minister also states that she shares our concerns regarding the consequences for an institution in the Netherlands. It states that there should be no question of this institution having adverse consequences in terms of teachers and quality. It reassures us that it will monitor this strictly when assessing the applications. This aspect is also taken into account in the elaboration of the grounds for refusal and withdrawal in the General Measure of Management. The quality of education in the Netherlands would lead to it when the best Dutch forces leave abroad. An institution should therefore describe in the application how this is prevented. This will then also be monitored. The CDA asks what this means in practice. Can the Minister explain how this is being reviewed and at what point the consent can be withdrawn? We do not want institutions to finance transnational education from public funds or to transfer public-funded expertise to a commercial institution without any compensation. We are pleased that the Minister is replying that transnational education cannot be financed by public funds and that this is also enshrined in the AMvB. So all costs will be financed by the Dutch institution from private funds or the Dutch institution will charge the services it provides to an established legal entity, such as the use of teachers, management and other staff for educational and research work, to that legal entity at an integral cost. According to the Minister, no public-funded expertise will be transferred to a commercial institution without compensation. This is because the Dutch institution remains the owner of the educational concepts, curricula and teaching materials at all times. The Dutch institution itself provides the training abroad and is therefore responsible for this. The CDA is satisfied with that. To our question about reinvesting transnational education in the Dutch part of the institution, the Minister answers that this depends on the agreements made. That is an important point for my party. We believe that the profits of transnational education should at least be partly invested back in the Dutch part of the institution, in order to improve the quality of education here, for example by investing in small-scale education, more tutorials and seminars such as at the best universities in the world, such as Oxford and Cambridge. That is why, together with the PvdA, we have tabled an amendment which ensures that the institution partly invests the proceeds of transnational education in the Dutch part of the institution (34355, No. 15).................................................................................................................................................................................. Then I come to the question of the costs of monitoring abroad. But that is a new point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u62	I see that Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks then wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u63	Mr Rog's latest proposal suggests that money earned in China, or, in order to generalise it, abroad, can be consolidated within the holding company, after all, we are talking about a business structure, and can then be reinvested in education in the Netherlands. However, I understand from the documents that there is an excellent shot and that this is not allowed at all, not even by the Chinese government. Does that not mean that Mr Rog is making a proposal that will not work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u64	I had not yet arrived at the situation around Yantai and the University of Groningen; I am simply talking about the present bill, to which we want to attach a condition. That condition is that when our Dutch institutions undertake the adventure abroad, we get something in return. After all, knowledge gained and organized here, which has often involved Dutch taxpayers' money, is made. The CDA considers it totally understandable that we are asking for something in return. We have not set that up very precisely; we have indicated that we want the Minister to pay attention to that point in an AMvB, so that part of the profits come back to the country that is the mother of the knowledge that is being invested elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u65	If you see it as a kind of product that you put away abroad and if you see a university as a business structure, I find Mr Rog's assumption perfectly logical. Of course, why not consolidate profits within the parent company? That's pretty much the terminology we're talking about. But is this not at the heart of the reason why the proposal before us is complicated? After all, education is not a business activity, education is not a product to be sold. And if you did, wouldn't it mean that something crazy is happening, namely that the towering tuition fees of Chinese wealthy students in the Netherlands are building up earning capacity to finance education here? I don't get a very pleasant feeling about that, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u66	I do not think I can take away Mr Grashoff's unpleasant feeling. There is a law in front of this where, as far as I am concerned, some good points stand for opportunities to spread their wings abroad too. I'm not always against that in advance. What I want is for us to make a number of agreements with each other in advance. As uncomfortable as Mr Grashoff's feeling is, I think it is important that we, as a Dutch parliament, are the government's controller. We are the auditors of institutions that spend Dutch tax money on higher education and may soon have an opportunity to fund this knowledge abroad. My simple analysis is: I want a piece of it back, because it was made possible by the Dutch taxpayer. I'd like to thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u67	You still have your own term, Mr Grashoff. Can it be short?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u68	Of course, Mr Rog knows just as well that it is not so much about my personal feelings, but that it is about a basic principle. Is it fair now to make a earning model of Dutch public education in such a way; to market it abroad? That is really a fundamental question, which I would say to Mr Rog: think again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u69	I can assure Mr Grashoff that I will continue to think. I am also very interested in the appreciation of the Minister for the amendment I tabled together with the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u70	That is the Asante/Rog amendment. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u71	I'm certainly very curious about that, too. I wonder what kind of money that is. After all, we have agreed in the law that there should be no public money to foreign establishments. For example, look at China: the €12,500 that students have to pay per year in tuition fees is cost-effective according to the college president. So what money does Mr. Rog intend to raise? I would also like to know what amounts he is thinking of. And what percentage should such a subsidiary of a university return to Groningen in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u72	Unfortunately, I have to disappoint Mrs Siderius of the SP, because I cannot mention percentages. I don't know how much profit is being made; I have no idea of that. The amendment states that we give the Minister the power to make arrangements on a case-by-case basis, in the General Measure of Management. That's what I do. It must also be a blessing for Mrs Siderius, who often makes uncovered proposals here, for some extra money to flow into the Dutch state treasury. So I don't understand that she's having trouble with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u73	You can put such a thing in a General Measure of Governance, but if no money is collected, that money cannot be returned to the state treasury either. Then what Mr Rog is asking now is really just a wash nose. He's asking something he doesn't even know if it's gonna happen. He's talking about money that would come back. What kind of money does he mean? It's not about public money from Groningen. He just said we want the money back. But if it's okay, there's no public money going to China, right? That's what we agreed on in that law. And the tuition fee of €12,500 per year is cost-covering, so there is no profit from that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u74	Mrs Siderius is right on a number of points. There is indeed no public money going abroad if this law enters into force. Mrs Siderius is also right to say that if there is no profit, there will also be no benefit as a result of this amendment. Only Mrs Siderius goes a little too fast when she says that it has no value. After all, if profits are made, and if the Minister at General Measure of Management does agree on the amount of money that can be returned, or on the percentage, then Mrs Siderius, or at least her constituents, is thrilled, because that means more money for our education and for our students in our homeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u75	I hear Mr Rog say in his last reply: it may also be that no money will be returned. That's what I was gonna ask here. After all, if you set up such a new education, you may start small, as in the case of Yantai, reinvesting the proceeds in further growth. In addition, it is difficult, if not impossible, in China to repatriate money abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u76	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u77	Would that condition also mean that, if the yield is nil over a number of years, this is not a ground for refusing approval? Is this a factor for Mr Rog to take into account in the recitals, but not a factor in itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u78	I think this is a good, substantive question. I ask the Minister to reflect on this, so that we can weigh the answer and see where we land in the second period. I would also like to emphasise that I distinguish between the law and the specific case of Yantai. With all due respect to all those who are now trying to do business in China: if we later have a law here saying that 50% of turnover should always flow back to the Netherlands, I will not suggest that, but suppose that is our condition. We can set our conditions, as can China or other countries. I am very relaxed in this: we are dealing with our own conditions. Then we'll see if there's a deal coming up later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u79	I have avoided individual cases in my own contribution; I only talked about the law. But I would ask Mr Rog to be very aware of the consequences of tabling an amendment. You shouldn't pass a law that's just dead in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u80	Sure. The great thing about our meeting order is that we can always take into account the Minister's reaction. We will do so here as well. I come to the cost of overseeing abroad. The Ministry of Education sees this as part of the task of inspection. However, the CDA considers that all additional costs associated with monitoring transnational education should be passed on to the institutions. It is the Dutch taxpayer who invests in our Dutch education. So we want inspection supervision and NVAO supervision; in short, anything that happens in foreign countries should not be paid out of taxpayers' money, but should be charged to the institution in question. The supervision of foreign adventures should therefore not be burdened on our taxpayers. To this end, I have tabled an amendment which, if it is correct, has just been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u81	Under No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u82	Finally, the plans of the University of Groningen in China. As a result of our questions, the Minister indicated that she could not yet give an answer as to whether they met the consent requirement. We ask the Minister, at what time she can do so and inform the Chamber. The CDA Group already has a number of questions, the answers of which are important for us to consider later as the request of the University of Groningen to start a branch in Yantai is before us in the Chamber. The CDA is concerned about academic freedom in China. Is the staff of this university going to be completely free to think and do? Is there an absolute freedom for the university to accept people with faith who may not be directly enthusiastic about the Chinese authorities? Does this also apply to political preferences or political or geopolitical views, such as the idea of whether or not China belongs to Taiwan? Does the Minister share the view of the CDA that we should never experience that students in Yantai will soon be given the bad ideology of Marxism under the responsibility of the University of Groningen? Can it guarantee that our universities cannot be obliged to teach these kinds of state ideologies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u83	That is a very good and sharp question from Mr Rog to the Minister. We await the answer. However, Mr Rog does not focus on the position of students, and that is exactly the same thing, I would say. If you want to train students at a university, you also want to train them into social-critical, self-conscious people. Suppose a Chinese student openly mixes in a discussion at the university and is then caught in his collar when he comes home. Then there doesn't even need to be taught anything wrong. In fact, even if something good is taught, students can be very vulnerable because of their opinion or opinion. They are the most vulnerable group; even more vulnerable than those employees, certainly than the Dutch employees, because for them it will run loose. You can't guarantee that at all, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u84	For me, it is now very important to consider whether we can guarantee an academic environment that fits our standards. Inside it creates a climate of freedom in thinking. I think Mr Grashoff's question is legitimate. If, for example, what students say or if, by demonstrating critical thinking skills in the college banks or in working groups, there is reason to arrest them, that is something I have great difficulty with. If we have a climate in which the Chinese government controls or is betrayed, I think that is an extremely serious situation. In that sense, I understand Mr Grashoff's question. In this sense, the position of students is also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u85	The point is clear, I think. Can we get it all a little bit more compact? I keep saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u86	I'll do my best, Mr. Chairman. A little more focused: Internet freedom is a major problem in China. Can you check on that, maybe in a workplace at a university? Can you do that in a dorm room on campus or elsewhere in China? Do you have any eyes on that? Or does the student have to do it elsewhere with the censored information, when it was about academic freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u87	This is where we come at a tilting point. Where does our responsibility stop? I do not know how many dictatorships and regimes in which all kinds of things happen that we disagree with according to our standards and standards. I do not know whether I should go so far as to take responsibility for the fact that students in their student residence have certain freedoms or not. I think we should do that in college. That's why I said what I said. I see this primarily in the framework conditions for which the Dutch institution is responsible. I feel responsible for that. So that's what I'm asking our minister. Mr Grashoff is looking for a certain edge. I cannot judge for a moment whether that is something that we, for example, should guarantee at the front of General Measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u88	I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen of D66, who has signed up for a terrifying number of minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u89	Mr. Chairman. It will not surprise you that I too will focus on transnational education, but before I get there, I can tell you that my group is largely in agreement with the legislative changes aimed at promoting internationalisation. I do have one more question about opening up the Profiling Fund to international fairs. Can the Minister rule out that this is at the expense of students with disabilities? As has been said, my group is very concerned about transnational education. The Minister says that this bill transcends the importance of the initiative of the University of Groningen in China. The Minister may be right, but this project is an example of what we can do with this bill. If the King and the Prime Minister have already come by and raised the glass with the Chinese President, who does not have to go through this kind of complicated legislative process, so I imagine myself and if I read in the business case of the University of Groningen that the Minister is already closely involved in the implementation of this project and has even approved a budget, then it seems very unlikely that she will be able to say no. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. What exactly did this collaboration look like? Since when has the Ministry been working with the University of Groningen and its Chinese counterpart to facilitate this project? I understand that even a working group has been set up with ministry officials here and in China. How many Dutch members do you have in this working group? At what level is it occupied? How long has this been under way? How many times have they gone back and forth to China? Those are just a few questions I'd like to know the answer to. And how much tax money is there from the Ministry in the preparation of this project? If you look at all this, the question remains: can you even say no? I do, but I'm asking the Minister because she has to or shouldn't. By linking the king to this project, the cabinet is putting pressure on democratic decision-making. According to the University of Groningen, the Netherlands would become an unreliable partner if this project fails. Does the Minister agree? What does the Minister think about the fact that the University of Groningen is trying to influence the decision-making process here? Does the Minister agree with me that it was a mistake of this cabinet to link the king to this project at such an early stage? Can the Minister explain how that decision was reached? After the beer with Putin and the funeral in Saudi Arabia, this cabinet should know better. Then about the Yantai case itself. The University of Groningen indicates that the future decline in the number of Dutch students is one of the reasons for this project, whereas the Minister has just said this is not a reason to start training abroad. How does the Minister deal with this argument when granting permission? Another goal mentioned by the University of Groningen is: to raise more research money for the second and third money flows. Does the Minister consider this to be a legitimate objective to provide training abroad? Isn't it very vulnerable if research is the main objective of setting up transnational education? The University of Groningen itself says that the financial risk is limited to the initial investments that have already been paid by it. How much is the amount of those initial investments? Much more importantly, academic freedom. On page 27 of the business case, the university writes that the minister has sent a letter on this matter to her Chinese counterpart. Can the Minister send that letter to the Chamber today? The Minister says that no concession should be made to academic freedom. The University of Groningen also states that academic freedom is guaranteed. She refers to a Chinese law called Regulation on Chinese Foreign Cooperation in Running Schools. That Chinese law states, among other things, that all subjects must be approved by the Chinese government, that all students are given military training and that they are obliged to take a course on Marxism. Yeah, it's in there. The University of Groningen also confirms this in its business case. Does the Minister think this is academic freedom? What exactly is the definition of the Minister of "academic freedom"? Can it give examples of situations where that definition is not met? Is there academic freedom, for example, if students cannot freely use the Internet? That's what just came up. Is there freedom if the content of subjects first has to be controlled by the government? Does the Minister think it is a good idea for us to give a Dutch bull for an education in which students are taught Marxism, imposed by the state? I can imagine that critical answers to exam questions do not quickly lead to good grades. In fact, this could be grounds for arrest. That's what it was about a short while ago. Will the Netherlands take responsibility for this? I also do not understand why the VVD thinks this is a good idea, especially considering the plea for research into the political preference of scientists. Does the Minister also see the risks of such projects for the profiling of Dutch higher education? If a Dutch university is going to offer courses in another country and it cannot offer the same guarantee of academic freedom as in the Netherlands, I wonder what this would do to the value of the university's diploma. I wouldn't like it as an alumnus if my diploma was associated with a university where academic freedom is no longer guaranteed. When I read the State University business case, it is clear who benefits from this: China gets technology, knowledge and talent, and multinationals get access to China, cheap research and local talents. But what's in it for higher education? The University of Groningen itself says that there is no evidence of positive effects on the global ranking. However, the Minister talks about positive effects on the positioning of higher education, the exchange of students and teachers and the strengthening of networks. Can the Minister tell us what the added value of transnational education is over other forms of cooperation? Why is transnational education better for exchange than joint degrees? Is there any exchange at all? Don't we mainly send teachers and researchers there? What exactly do we get in return for that? Has the Minister done research on the effects on ranking, the number of foreign students and the educational quality of branch campuses from other universities? What exactly happens to the investigation at the branch campus? Is that released under open access? Who is the intellectual owner and what about the freedom of Dutch PhDs doing research there? Can they use their research to start a business in the Netherlands, for example, or is that knowledge locked up and only a Chinese company is allowed to use it? In 2015, the Rathenau Institute warned against moving research facilities to countries like China. We must ensure that high-quality research is carried out in the Netherlands. This is crucial for our future growth and jobs. That is why D66 invests in research and innovation, unfortunately it is the only party to do so. With regard to this project, I see a great risk in terms of leaking technology, knowledge, talented researchers and research facilities. It would be a shame if the knowledge and technology we build in years could be given away in decades. I hope the Minister will be able to deal with this. Does she see this risk? How does her colleague from Economic Affairs view this? Has the Minister done research on this and can she ask the Rathenau Institute to provide advice on this with regard to the expertise it has developed on the basis of previous research? How does the State Department view this? Isn't that supposed to be the bigger picture? Finally, perhaps the most important question: what is the result of Dutch education? There's gonna be researchers, teachers and PhDs going to China. What does that do with the quality of education in the Netherlands? How can the Minister guarantee that this is not at the expense of the quality of research and education here? The University of Groningen says that it must count on sufficient staff "of high caliber" who wants to go to Yantai. Surely it can only have a negative impact on education in Groningen if our best teachers go to China? Is the Minister familiar with the internal research of the Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences of the University? That faculty is at the bar for twelve Bachelor's and twelve Master's programmes. In that report, also discussed in the University Council, there are many concerns. I'd like to hear a reflection from the Minister on that. I would like to conclude by saying what Mrs Cao said at a hearing of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the United States House of Representatives. That hearing was very interesting, by the way. I'd advise colleagues to look into that. That hearing was about academic freedom in partnerships with Chinese universities. You don't know what you're reading! She said it was her wish that universities would be able to step away from the chess board and see that they have become a pawn in someone else's game.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u90	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is very critical of transnational education, particularly in relation to this law, in which many things are unclear about how they are precisely regulated, but first and foremost on fundamental grounds. The plans of the University of Groningen to start a campus in China, in Yantai, are the reason for this bill. Yes, of course the law not only regulates this for Groningen, but it is very good that this case coincides with this, because it clearly indicates where the questions and limitations lie. The proposal offers the possibility of starting a full-time training abroad. Students on that campus will receive a Dutch diploma from the University of Groningen. Why would the University of Groningen want that? That's on page 8 of the business case; that's always a good word. That is where the law stands: the influx of Dutch students is decreasing and therefore internationalisation is one of the most important priorities of the University of Groningen. That is a strange argument, because demographic development here makes sense. Of course, it is always fine to have international students in Groningen and at other universities, but if a normal demographic development in the Netherlands as a kind of survival strategy becomes the leading concept to start up a branch abroad and ultimately to achieve completely different distributions of percentages between international students and Dutch students, we wonder if that is still the core task of a publicly funded university in the Netherlands. After all, that university was founded to provide education in the Netherlands. Internationalisation is based on the principle that it also benefits the quality of education and, of course, the international focus of our Dutch students. It is not an end in itself to be an institution with as many international students as possible, especially if that is becoming a earning model. This is a pure question of economics in education. Not an educational choice was the background to this adventure, but a business choice, a kind of survival strategy of the organization. Let it be clear that GroenLinks is a strong supporter of cooperation with foreign educational institutions, of exchange of students and, therefore, of having all kinds of facilities for this, such as international scholarships and so on, but this law is moving in a very different direction. If you establish your own Dutch education abroad, it almost leads to a contradiction in terms in terms of terms, in my group's view. After all, an education is more than just the sum of courses in a curriculum. It is also about the spirit that exists at that institution, about the space that exists to actually look at society critically with one another. You not only want to teach people a profession, but you also want to train them to be critical citizens and critical scientists. This also brings the risks for funding, academic freedom, independence and freedom of opinion. As far as cooperation is concerned, that is not necessarily our responsibility. But once you transfer a Dutch education to the other side of the world, whether that's China or elsewhere, you'll take responsibility for that too, for the full 100% in my group's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u91	I'm gonna go into the first piece for a little while. The motives would be wrong, wrong if a university or university of applied sciences offered international activities, for example international students moved to the Netherlands, perhaps to get some money from it. That's how I understood it. It's all wrong. It's economics. In Australia, such a strategy has increased university revenues by hundreds of millions. That money is used for scholarships for their own students to go abroad. So the students benefit directly from that education. This can be because money is made from students who go abroad to Melbourne and Sydney. Is that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u92	No. Mr Duisenberg did not fully understand me. There is not necessarily something wrong with having or retaining money from students from abroad. Moreover, I would be very reluctant to do so. You do provide education there, and that is something other than selling a product. However, I have tried to make it clear that the motive put forward by the University of Groningen to start this adventure in China is not right at the heart of the matter: it is aimed at reversing the decline in the number of students in the Netherlands, a normal demographic development. In fact, this means that the own educational institution is primarily regarded as a earning model rather than as the publicly funded educational institution that it is. That's where it goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u93	So Mr Grashoff says: Mr Duisenberg has misunderstood it, because it is possible, but if it is the primary reason, then it is wrong again. I think it's a bit of a confusing argument. In my example of Australia, the alternative is that the university closes. That was right there. Eventually, the great winner is Australia itself and the students whose university stays open and who get opportunities to go abroad with the money that is simply earned by having good education there, from which more has been achieved by not just giving it to their own students and by not just doing it out of the contributions of their own students and taxpayers in Australia. They have found a clever way to further exploit the good product, that education, for the benefit of the students themselves. That's just to be praised, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u94	It is precisely this interruption that shows that we really look at education quite fundamentally differently. Education is not primarily intended to make money but to train people and offer them opportunities to develop. If the opportunities and opportunities and accessibility of our Dutch universities depend on a earning model with foreign students, then we are far and wide on the soap slope. I think even Mr Duisenberg will agree with me. It is therefore not a good starting point to say that this income model should now be used, not even for the funding of Dutch education and for keeping Dutch education affordable. That is our public responsibility. We're gonna have to get rid of them with tax resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u95	You will not agree, but Mr Grashoff will nevertheless receive a question because Mr Duisenberg is being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u96	Mr Grashoff continues to say that they are educational motives, but if something is good for Dutch students, it has something to do with educational motives. Mr Grashoff has to go over the bridge: if you want to do things, you also need funding. If you want to offer students opportunities, this is an ideal opportunity. You may find it all wrong and call it economics, but of course that's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u97	I notice that Mr Duisenberg is starting to get a little irritated when I am trying to conduct this debate on the basis of a number of principles and values. I still cannot imagine, even from Mr Duisenberg, that you would like to make the way in which we provide education for Dutch young people in the Netherlands dependent on a earning model for training foreign students. That is really just a fundamentally wrong approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u98	You're not gonna agree. Please continue, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u99	The risk is appointed by the Minister, but I do not see any conclusive solutions. I also think that these final solutions cannot be found so far because they have been decided in the nature of the chosen construction. The Minister will undoubtedly deal with it. Soon, of course, we will be able to settle a number of issues in the AMvB. It would have been better if some things had already been settled in the law. I do, however, see a number of amendments which would improve the legislative proposal in this respect, including by Mrs Asante. In my view, however, they do not remove the fundamental issue. Is it an ideal image as colleges and universities from their public role in another country to set up a private, business education institution and compete with private education under their brand name with the education that exists there, I hope, properly funded by the public? In any case, I would find that an extremely unfortunate situation in the Netherlands. I would find it extremely unfortunate if the University of Groningen under exactly the same name with exactly the same training courses would also offer private education in the Netherlands for the summum of €12,000 per year. I would have a big problem with that, because I do know that the attention eventually goes to the place where the money is earned. This also applies to foreign institutions. It should not be the case that we are destroying international public funded education in the world through private education from foreign institutions. For the happy few there is a more beautiful image and that also seems to be a better diploma, but a lot is then finally image. The Minister says in so many words that the added value lies among other things in the positioning of Dutch higher education abroad. Does she mean a marketing tool? Positioning higher education, in that sense, I cannot see any different from the existing partnerships that all have an educational or researchal perspective than as a brand strategy, i.e. as linking the brand, with which it is therefore a marketing tool. In itself, I would not find that wrong, but I wonder if there are any simpler ways of doing so than this far-reaching option of taking care of full-time training abroad. I think this can be done in a much simpler way. The promotion of a good education in the Netherlands among foreign students is quite alright, as far as my group is concerned, even more so, I would encourage this, but that does not mean that you will have to offer whole courses abroad. That is not necessary either, because there is constant growth in the number of international students. Since 2006, this number has been almost two and a half times higher in scientific education, including from China. If there is an issue of a somewhat declining number of international students, it is currently in HBO and we should ask ourselves what exactly is causing it. At least at the Dutch universities there is a steady and continuing growth to this day. This leads me to the second fundamental question: what is the solution to this problem? It could be fun. I see all kinds of risks, and I'll come back to them later. It should have added value. What issue are we solving? We can work together internationally. We can promote Dutch education abroad. We can establish international exchanges, both in the fields of education and research. So we do not need to start full training abroad. Turning to the risks of funding and the governance structure makes it even more complicated. I'm trying to sum it up, also for the sake of time. If you so strongly from the Netherlands set up the educational model of the programme, the content of the curriculum, the business design and the complete business case for your activity in, for example, China and attach the name and diploma to it, can you really maintain that there is no legal title on the basis of which risks could continue to work towards, what I call, the Dutch parent company? When ING in the US, a fully independent legal entity, got into trouble because of the American mortgages, the financial consequences were transferred directly to the Dutch parent group. In this respect, on the basis of what I know now, I cannot see the University of Groningen other than de facto that parent company. So I cannot escape the impression that, if the experiment in China really were to fail, there would be expensive buildings for too few students, that the business case would not be around and that creditors in China would eventually find the board of directors in Groningen or at least try to do something about it by means of legal remedies. I don't think we should be dealing with that. Here, colleges of government should be involved in providing good education, especially here. With the academic freedom in China, things are not right. The Chinese government is strengthening its grip on the Internet, media and science. This is evident from Amnesty International's figures. Since students in China were once demonstrated at the Square of Heavenly Peace and severely beaten down, there is no freedom of expression at the universities in China and the Chinese government's focus on what is happening at universities is very strong. They keep an eye on the elite there. There is no free internet access in China and you should actually force it remotely, which is actually weird. Then why should we have to enforce it and what other means would we have to maintain it than the means of simply ending the experiment? It is and remains an independent jurisdiction and that is not only true in the West. Every citizen in China, every resident in China will have to comply with Chinese laws and regulations. That's not crazy. That makes sense. But do we have to assume the responsibility for creating a complete training course to which a Dutch diploma is attached? That's the question for me. The same question arises when it comes to accreditation. Mr Van Meenen has just given a few fine examples of this. What should we accredit to the military training and instruction courses in Marxism? I can't imagine. But these matters will then be part of an education that will be linked to that Dutch diploma. I can't see it. I'll come to a conclusion. All in all, I cannot imagine that this bill is really balanced and balanced. I cannot imagine that it will solve an actual issue at the moment. This bill works with regard to internationalisation as a puzzle that you always think will fit pieces together, but eventually they don't fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u100	Mr. Chairman. One of the core values for the Labour Party is international solidarity. This includes sharing knowledge, power and income fairly at international level. If I translate this core value into the proposed legislative proposal to amend the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act, I cannot but accept a positive basic position as a Social Democrat. This bill not only offers Dutch higher education institutions a nice way to make the world fairer, smarter and more beautiful, it also offers the opportunity to strengthen and improve our education, which is internationally well written. I believe that our students, teachers, researchers and staff can benefit if they come into contact with colleagues from other countries with different cultures and beliefs. It is good for personal and professional development. New ideas arise, knowledge is gained and this is also good for the quality of our education. The Labour Party stands for accessible high quality higher education. This calls for investment in education quality and in teaching staff. However, values such as accessibility and quality may be at stake if investments by educational institutions in other, for example foreign activities go wrong or develop against expectations. This may have negative consequences for institutions, staff and students. The Labour Party believes that ensuring education and good employership for educational staff in the Netherlands should be the primary concern of directors and institutions. Financial adventures in an international education market with potential risks and disadvantages for students and educational staff should never be a priority of institutions and directors. I also have a number of questions. How, for example, do we deal with the deployment of staff? How do we prevent the best employees from quickly working with the most commercially interesting foreign activities for the institution and the director and not with teaching and organizing in the Netherlands? I therefore want to discuss this with the Minister today. I have a few concerns, as the Minister can already point out from the above. I hope that in her response she takes away those concerns. The Labour Party does not want to prohibit international cooperation, but it must be clear that this cannot be done with Dutch Community money, and that there must be no financial risk. That is why we want strong supervision and strict conditions. The Minister proposes rules here by means of a General Measure of Governance and she will monitor them. The question is, however, how exactly this monitoring is designed. And the question is also whether the participation of an institution is sufficiently taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u101	And the question is also what Mrs Siderius would like to ask you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u102	Mrs Asante of the Labour Party speaks fine words about accessible higher education. The Labour Party wants to remove inequality of opportunity from education. That's what whole reports are written about. But let's take a look at the case in China, Yantai. The tuition fee is €12,500 per academic year per student. Does Mrs Asante think that is a form of accessible higher education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u103	Indeed, many parties have referred to a case in their contribution. As far as I am concerned, we are talking today not about a case, but about the amendment of a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u104	We know, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u105	..that legal treatment is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u106	That's right. And part of that law is the establishment of branches of universities abroad. A project in the pipeline is the project Yantai of the University of Groningen. Mrs. Asante knows all about it, if it's okay. She has also made statements about it in the media. My question is very easy. The tuition fee is €12,500 per year. Does Mrs Asante think that accessible higher education or does she say: no, this type of education is not accessible to all students?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u107	What is accessible in the Netherlands may not be accessible in China, and vice versa. Once again, I have heard the questions about the case of Yantai and I am very curious to hear what the Minister has to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u108	I would like to know what the Minister thinks, but I am particularly curious about what the PvdA Group thinks about this. Does the Labour Party consider it normal that a student should pay €12,500 per academic year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u109	What's accessible is very relative. What is accessible in the Netherlands can not be accessible in China, and vice versa. If it is accessible there, who am I to say from the Netherlands that it is not accessible, Mrs Siderius?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u110	Now you address Mrs Siderius. That means we're gonna go on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u111	I do not know what Mrs Asante means by low-income classes, but let us take a look at someone from a welfare family. That student would like to go to China to study at the secondary office of the University of Groningen. Turns out that's not funded publicly. So you have to pay €12,500 tuition fees per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u112	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u113	Does the Labour Party think that's a good idea or not? It's more than half a welfare allowance. Let's talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u114	I would very much like to talk about the Netherlands. If a Dutch student wants to study with parents who have to live on a very low income, then I find it much more important that this can be done in the Netherlands. Dutch education in the Netherlands offers this possibility; that is accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u115	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u116	So I have some concerns and therefore I want the grounds for refusal that are crucial for us to be included in the General Measure of Governance. Together with the CDA, I am tabling two amendments to this effect. The grounds for refusal include the way in which training has been accredited and the safety and rights of staff. How do we prevent the State contribution from being used for training abroad? How can the income generated by training abroad be re-destined? To what extent is this relocation in the interest of the quality of higher education in the Netherlands? Another point is the size and scale...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u117	I'm afraid Mr Van Meenen of D66 has a question for you. Or isn't it? No. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u118	Another point concerns the scope and scale of the initiative covered by the application, in particular from the point of view of the number of students. Another point is the financial position of the applicant, the way in which the continuity of the training is ensured in the Netherlands. In other words, the PvdA is in favour of international education, the PvdA is in favour of transnational education, but as far as we are concerned we make very good, strict agreements on this, so that at least it does not affect the quality of education in the Netherlands or the position of students, researchers, teachers and employees of our institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u119	Those are all excellent additions to the demands package, nothing wrong with it, but I think there is still one missing. Fortunately, I have an amendment that complements that. That point deals with academic freedom. In my contribution, I have already given some examples of cases where this freedom could be under pressure, with all kinds of obligations in the curriculum on Marxism, military training and free access to the Internet. How does the PvdA look at that? I do not hear it in the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u120	No. I also heard about the Groningen and Yantai cases. If that application is submitted, we will check it on the grounds we are meeting today in the AMvB. My party is also concerned about it. We think it is important that the environment in which education is received and given at a foreign establishment is as good as in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u121	Apart from what the PvdA Group is going to do with my amendment, it sounds like support for the following. Is it conceivable for the PvdA that one day permission will be given in a situation where such requirements are imposed, i.e. in a situation where geopolitical education is to be given from the government of the other country, there is military training etc.? Is that conceivable for the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u122	It doesn't sound like a climate that also applies in the Netherlands and in which there is the academic freedom that you would like. So it's gonna be tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u123	But not impossible, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u124	It's gonna be tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u125	Yeah. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u126	You'll get an answer. It may be an answer you don't like, but it's an answer. Are you at the end of your speech, Mrs Asante?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u127	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u128	Mrs. Siderius has one more question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u129	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Asante of the PvdA also considers quality very important, she indicated in her introduction. Let's talk about that case in China, Yantai, where the University of Groningen wants to open a subsidiary. What does the PvdA think about Amnesty International writing that freedom of expression and assembly, and freedom of religion in China, are strongly linked? As far as the PvdA is concerned, should the Minister agree to a subsidiary in a country where human rights are violated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u130	Once again, if it means that this undermines academic freedom, which we consider to be very important, I refer to my reply to the previous speaker, it will be a difficult story. Of course you shouldn't want to. But again, we are meeting here a number of things. We make the law here, we make it better. If there is an individual application, it will simply be tested along the lines of that law and along the lines of the agreements we make here with each other. Academic freedom is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u131	But then, of course, the question is what the PvdA means by "academic freedom." Does the PvdA mean that there should be no human rights violations in the country where that subsidiary is established? Is that what the PvdA means? If the answer is "yes," we will be ready soon, because then the PvdA cannot agree to this establishment. But if Mrs Asante continues to give those vague answers, I am seriously concerned about what academic freedom means to the PvdA and what the PvdA thinks about human rights violations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u132	It may not be a desired answer, but it is not a vague answer. I said that academic freedom and the climate within the institution where education is received and given are important. That may not be the answer Mrs Siderius would like, but I think it is clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u133	I would like to point out once again that the law is on the table today, not all kinds of specific interpretations of it. I know it's election time and there's a lot to talk about, but I'm also looking at the clock. I have appealed to all of you. Mr Grashoff, can we have a brief word?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u134	Mrs Asante started by saying: we stand for international solidarity. It therefore places this in the context of international solidarity. Can she tell me what the essential contribution is here in terms of international solidarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u135	As I said in my contribution, international solidarity implies fair sharing of knowledge, power and income. In the Netherlands, we have a quality of education that is highly regarded worldwide. It is part of international solidarity that you share that knowledge with students and other people elsewhere in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u136	Sharing or selling? If you sell it there for €12,000 tuition fees, if it is up to Mr Duisenberg or Mr Rog, we may even deserve something like that that seems to me not so much international solidarity as a earning model.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u137	As far as I'm concerned, it's "sharing of knowledge."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u138	The institution tuition fees for students from China who come here are also that amount, so that's not so strange. Mrs Asante rightly mentions points of attention, including academic freedom. The Minister has come back to this in her written replies. It states that Article 1.6 of the WHW, which deals with academic freedom, is also in full force for these institutions. My question concerns the amendment, which contains all valid points. Do you have to settle those points in amendment or can they also be part of the AMvB? The risk of the amendment is that you will rig up a whole Christmas tree and regulate everything in the law, while the conditions could also be included in the AMvB. Anything that has been dealt with and said here can come back to that AMvB. Now you rig up an entire Christmas tree with the great chance that it is not complete and leaves no room to arrange other things in the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u139	Personally, I am always from the big Christmas tree with a lot of big balls and pendulums, but to answer the question: we want the maximum guarantee that what we want is also really solidly legally anchored. We see the possibility of this by tabling an amendment. Our preference for this is for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u140	Right now, we have three Christmas trees. There are two Christmas trees of the duo Asante/Rog. There is also a Christmas tree by Mr Van Meenen. They want the same thing in part. Maybe it's a suggestion to make it one Christmas tree. Maybe that's even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u141	I'll consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u142	You came to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u143	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u144	That brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. A lot of questions have been asked. I'm suspending until 4:55 p.m. Restore, we'll continue at 4:50 p.m. Mr Van Meenen, you had a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u145	In my contribution, I asked for a letter to be sent. I hope that in the meantime we will also have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u146	And that letter has to be there before the Minister responds in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u147	At least during this debate. The sooner, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u148	We will ask the Minister if she wishes to say anything about this at the beginning of her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u149	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u150	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about internationalisation today. I note that we no longer have to ask ourselves whether or not we are participating in internationalisation in higher education. That internationalisation is a fact. The whole of higher education is heavily internationalised. Of course you have to position yourself. Then the question is how do you want to do that? We have been working for a long time in the Netherlands to take advantage of that international position. We do this by making it attractive and encouraging students to come to the Netherlands with programs like Make it in the Netherlands! and organisations such as EP-Nuffic. We also try to let our Dutch students go abroad. That's a little less than I'd like to do, but I'm gonna keep doing my best. We are also looking for forms of cooperation with other universities and colleges, with joint degrees and double degrees. Indeed, transnational education is another step in that direction. We do not do all that because we think that this is such an enormously beautiful economic market model. You could make some money. I say to Mr Beertema that there was a discussion during Rutte I whether too many international students came to the Netherlands. This has led to deep fears among other countries, who thought that they were no longer welcome here. At that time, more international students came to the Netherlands to investigate what it would be worth. From this it emerged that it would yield 740 million if one fifth of the students remained. I think that there is nothing wrong with that if it is a by-product and if it can help to push Dutch education and perhaps also the Dutch economy. My starting point in everything I do about internationalisation is that it should never be just an economic earning model. That is what I am saying to Mr Grashoff, who is not here at the moment. Economics is far from mine. I want to encourage internationalisation, because it's good for students. We can organize an international classroom where students learn something from this. We can achieve more student and teacher exchange. It is important for an international knowledge society, indeed, that is also a knowledge-based economy to maintain these relations with other countries. And it is important for Dutch higher education to position itself. We have already taken a number of steps in the broad framework of internationalisation. We've also talked about it before. On 14 December 2016, we also discussed the added value of internationalisation. Moreover, I do not recall that so many structural problems have been raised there. Everyone who was there at the time was actually in favour of internationalisation, but in a careful way. We also talked back then about providing full higher education abroad, or setting up a branch campus. Again, I see the potential value in three areas: strengthening international networks, better positioning of Dutch higher education abroad and facilitating the exchange of students and teachers. The quality of Dutch higher education is always paramount. I want to give Dutch institutions the opportunity to participate in international developments, but I want to keep my grip on them. That is why I would point out that this is only a form of transnational education, albeit far-reaching. Again, joint, double or multiple degree programmes are all forms of transnational education. That is, in my view, a real misconception, because joint degrees must meet the same quality requirements. In a joint degree, the NVAO also tests the part that is taken care of abroad. All this is aimed at improving quality. It is not commodity and not economics, but it focuses on three points: strengthening international networks, better positioning of Dutch higher education and student exchange. Mr Beertema also asked about the impact of internationalisation on the EU budget. The European Union is spending 14.7 billion on the Erasmus+ programme for the period 2014-2020. That is an amount for all countries. Dutch education sectors will receive around 25 million for higher education in 2017. Mr Beertema also asked for a disbalance between incoming and outgoing mobility. I told you before that we get more international students than Dutch students go out. There are about 75,000 foreign students in the Netherlands and about 13,700 students with a Dutch nationality study elsewhere. So you could say that the ratio is one in four to one in five. However, I do not think that is the most important thing. I think it is most important that of all students who graduated in 2013/2014 a quarter of their education abroad has followed. That can be with an Erasmus experience or with an internship. I'd like that to increase. It is also interesting that, if we get students here, we can promote that international classroom. I go to the general questions that have been asked about transnational education. I'm going to deal with all the questions that have been asked about a case, the Yantai campus, separately. I would like to emphasise that, as I have said, we are talking here about a legislative proposal which is far more far-reaching than one initiative by one university in one country. Transnational education means offering Dutch education abroad. Already institutions are active in offering education, with a quarter of the training in the Netherlands to be followed. The law now allows that, too. The Stenden University of Applied Sciences is a good example. Mr Duisenberg has already referred to it. It has been successful for years in Qatar, Dubai, Bali and South Africa, making use of this opportunity. If we do nothing, then every university can do the same for that one university in the north of the country that might want to do a campus in China for three quarters, if students only come here for a quarter of their studies. What we are discussing now is indeed a full form of transnational education. The law doesn't allow that. A number of Dutch institutions have plans for this. Let me mention a few examples, which at least appeal to my imagination. They concern small initiatives. Maastricht University has a double degree programme with the University of Aruba. A quarter of the training is now provided in Maastricht. However, Maastricht University would like to provide the full training on Aruba, so students no longer have to travel to the Netherlands. I have been to Aruba recently and have spoken extensively with my colleague. She says that she is very keen to encourage very good studying in the region, because it does not have such huge positive effects when students from Aruba have to go to the Netherlands for part of their education or a whole education. So this could be a very nice solution to further shape studying in the vicinity. The UvA has similar plans on Curaçao. The Rotterdam School of Management and the International Institute of Social Studies of Erasmus University are also focusing on transnational education. Sometimes it does take a big shape. That is the example of the UG in Chinese Yantai. That is indeed very comprehensive. However, the law we are discussing here is much wider. If you take stock, there are positive aspects of transnational education and also negative aspects, risks. They are also there, I say this to Mr Duisenberg, who asked a question about this if a foreign university in the Netherlands wants to set up a branch campus. That too is one of the possibilities. Foreign universities are free to provide education in the Netherlands. This is covered by the constitutional freedom of education. However, the question is whether the foreign branch in the Netherlands can call itself university or college. Last night, in the First Chamber, I defended the bill of protection names and degrees of higher education. The law does not limit this, because it seeks to prevent the deception of students and employers. It is crucial that it is clear to students in advance which diploma is linked to the training and what the value of that diploma is. That is what we are asking for. That way it is clear that they are not WHW-approved degrees or diplomas. Students undergoing such training are therefore not eligible for study funding. If an institution does want recognition, it must first become a legal person. Then it is strictly legal no longer a subsidiary, it must also be accredited and therefore it must meet our requirements. This will also be the case with Dutch initiatives. They have to comply partly with Dutch laws, but in part they also have to do with laws abroad. In transnational education, I see a number of advantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u151	I see Mr Duisenberg standing at the interrupting microphone, but I think the Minister just came up with a list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u152	You can see that it improves the visibility of our education. You can also see that foreign institutions with campuses abroad are rising on international rankings. I think we are all very proud that the Netherlands is very high on those rankings, but that doesn't all go well by itself. You're gonna have to keep working on that. This could be one of the ways to keep those high rankings. Also look at English examples, such as The University of Nottingham and University of Liverpool. Mr Duisenberg has mentioned other examples: Johns Hopkins University, and University of Oxford, who may now wish to open a campus in Paris. It's all happening. That's what I'm saying. So the question is: do we want to get a position in that? Or do we say, "Let others, above all, do so, and let this cup pass us by?" I don't want that last one. I have just said that I believe that students, teachers and researchers can also achieve a better exchange and that we can develop better networks. So there are real advantages in joining this European and global trend. Big names have done that before. I just mentioned a few. I also mention Ghent University. It opened a branch in South Korea. I discussed it extensively with my colleagues at the OJCS Council in 2014. Yeah, that's what I did to see how you keep this going. 'Cause nobody wants to grow wild, neither do I. But as far as I am concerned, we will continue to play with our higher education in that international world. This is not at all the defining thing, but this is one of the new lottery tickets to the tribe. There are also many other forms. I just mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u153	First of all, I would like to say that the Minister mentions fine examples. I also fully agree with everything she has said about this. Secondly, I will come back to one of those universities which would then settle here in the Netherlands. The Minister is fully involved in this matter, because I understand that last night she successfully defended the proposal for a law on protection and higher education in the Upper House. If, for example, the University of Oxford were not to settle in Paris, but here in the Netherlands, the Oxford University could, under certain conditions, simply be Oxford University, because it is one of those universities with reputation according to this law, et cetera, et cetera?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u154	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u155	So other universities simply have the freedom to settle here. It also provides that they are a university.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u156	Well, that doesn't mean they have all the rights. For example, if they want their students to be able to receive study funding, they must be accredited and, like other programmes, they must be tested by all kinds of tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u157	I agree with the Minister. But in principle, the system is open to universities. Outside settings can come here and then comply with those rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u158	Yes, if those institutions meet the requirements of that law that I defended yesterday in the First Chamber, then they can also call themselves a university. They must deliver internationally recognized degrees for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u159	I would like to thank the Minister for the recent figures of the foreign students studying here and of the Dutch students abroad. I am afraid of that ratio: 75,000 foreign students here and 13,700 Dutch students abroad. That relationship is indeed incredibly crooked. What's interesting to know is how many of those 75,000 students are doing studies in which we ourselves lack talent. I'm thinking of complicated science studies. How many of these 75,000 students study alpha studies, such as languages and sociology, culture, etc.? That doesn't make us any better as a country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u160	Research doesn't show that. I have already referred to the CPB study which shows that we are getting better in general from students who stay here. I can also say that EP-Nuffic has calculated that the bonding of foreign students in general, i.e. not sector-specific, will generate an annual treasury of no less than 1.57 billion. Those students do different studies. Sometimes also studies for which Dutch students may opt for a little less, it is therefore an interesting way to maintain these studies in the Netherlands and sometimes the labour market needs to do so. If there is a limitation, it also applies to foreign students. Furthermore, they can participate in studies as long as they qualify and pay tuition fees, in this case mostly institutional tuition fees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u161	I think it's very vague. It's really still based on assumptions and wet fingering. It doesn't cheer me up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u162	These kind of conclusions are fine for your second term. Interrupts are there for questions and comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u163	I have another question about what the Minister said about smoother tests when it comes to accreditation. I read very clearly in the explanatory statement, on page 4, that the NVAO should take a lighter test for new training courses. "A lighter test," isn't that about internationalization? Then you have lighter tests for this kind of joint programs than for regular Dutch studies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u164	We need to separate two things. One question is how to make it more attractive for joint programmes and joint degrees to be introduced. The obstacle is now often that double tuition has to be paid. We're changing the law now. That's part of this bill. To make sure it doesn't have to be anymore. Another question is whether the Rphos, which are the legal entities not covered by the formal financing, must meet the same requirements as the institutions financed. There is indeed a difference, because they are also slightly less public in some sense. I do not think that is entirely illogical. I'm coming back to transnational education. I have said that I see positive elements in this, but also the risks. I absolutely do not want to close my eyes to that. I stress that the quality of education must be paramount for all students in the Netherlands and abroad. I believe that the possible consequences for education in the Netherlands should be well thought out. I do not want transnational initiatives to have a negative impact on Dutch students. I certainly do not want institutions to go abroad just for economic gain. I also do not want them to go abroad for economic gain in the first place. That is why I think it is important that the support within the institution is guaranteed and that we can make demands for approval. That is why I have made a letter of amendment to grant or abstain in advance. If I had acted in the line in which this bill had been discussed before, there would have been no restriction at all. But I have said: I want you to have permission from the Minister, or from my successor, and therefore from your Chamber, at every step of transnational education, so at every institution that wants to start a campus abroad. I think this is important in terms of political legitimacy and because I want to ensure that Dutch students and Dutch higher education, and hence the Dutch public interest, cannot be harmed by such initiatives. A careful assessment should always be carried out in advance and, if necessary, the inspection should be able to carry out its monitoring tasks, including abroad. What are we gonna do now? The provision that a higher education institution can also provide training abroad as a whole already exists. That possibility was introduced in 2009. That article also provides the basis for the General Measure of Governance, in which detailed rules can be developed. The 2009 article will not enter into force until it enters into force. The AMvB therefore contains essential safeguards and is in the making. During the general discussion on internationalisation on 14 December, I promised Members that they would receive this AMvB this summer. Before the Chamber receives and approves the AMvB, no Dutch university or college can start a branch campus abroad. Mr Rog and Mr Asante have tabled amendments to make this even more clear. Universities or colleges can do this only if I, or my successor, and the Chamber agree with the AMvB in which the detailed conditions have been worked out. To anyone who is now saying that we are taking irreversible steps or doing something terrible, I would like to say that that is not true. It's in my hands and in the room. If we have confidence in that, we will have a lot of ways to look at this AMvB to see if it is all well arranged and to examine a concrete proposal. I would like to state in the AMvB that any transnational initiative requires the approval of the Minister. I want to make it clear that institutions are not entitled to funding for their training abroad. So there is no tax money going to training abroad. Finally, this letter of amendment clarifies that training abroad is subject to the same set of WHW rules as for legal persons for higher education. As I said earlier, that set is a little more limited than that for funded institutions. Training abroad does not claim public funds. So they should not use public funds, but they are not entitled to them either. That makes their set of rules a little more flexible. The AMvB is therefore needed to make transnational education practically possible. With these guarantees, however, we also have the possibility of refusing a request for authorisation, for example if the measures to ensure the quality of education in the Netherlands or abroad are insufficient, if the way in which financial risks are mitigated is insufficient, if the educational activities abroad are detrimental to diplomatic relations or if a good exit strategy is not provided for. The question was rightly asked as to what we would do if an institution had to stop its activities. Mr Duisenberg asked how I would cover the risks mentioned by the Council of State in his opinion on the AMvB. I said that it should not affect the quality of education, that training should have the same requirements and that inappropriate use of state contributions should be avoided. All these components are either laid down in the law or entered the AMvB. In my view, this is an adequate way of detaching the points of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u165	I don't really understand why we're treating this law today with steam and boiling water. After all, we must wait for this AMvB before universities can set up such prestige projects abroad. And you actually want to be able to judge that AMvB in perspective of this bill. Isn't it much wiser to wait for that AMvB first? Then we'll know exactly how it's written in there. Why is it not legally recorded in an AMvB? You can then see it in perspective and see if there are sufficient safeguards. Otherwise, we're going to adopt a bill now, when we don't know what's gonna be in the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u166	One: this bill contains much more than transnational education. There are urgent issues that are important, for example in order to shape joint degrees and the like. Two: we indicate what's going to be in the AMvB. The amendments before us call for extra attention to be given to this. A number of additional points indicate what should or should not be regulated in the AMvB. This logical order is also used at other times. We deal with a law and then we make an AMvB. Again: until the AMvB has been created and approved, this part of the law cannot yet enter into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u167	That's lucky in an accident. Why are the things that are recorded in the AMvB not simply laid down in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u168	Because this is specific regulation and we often record it in an AMvB. Once again, the amendment also lays down the legal framework for what should in any case be included in the AMvB. The amendment tabled by Mr Asante and Mr Rog calls on Mrs Siderius to speak because it states that a lot of crucial points are not only to be found in the AMvB. The development is in the AMvB, but the theme is also mentioned in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u169	But that does not apply to academic freedom. We're not gonna settle that with that amendment. Is it conceivable for the Minister that legislation should be introduced in law and AMvB, which will allow for the establishment of a Dutch university where Marxism is compulsory, where military training is given and where there is no free access to the Internet? Is that conceivable according to this minister? And if not, what are we going to do in the AMvB to prevent that successfully?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u170	I have just said that I will deal with the questions about the specific campus later. Academic freedom is already a very important part of the law on the authorisation of transnational education. If I am right, the amendment tabled by Mr Asante and Mr Rog refers once again to academic freedom. I agree with Mr Van Meenen that there must be quality assurance as regards the safety of students' rights. Academic freedom must be secured. It's already in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u171	Well, then I'll ask my question about the specific case again later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u172	I think that would be useful if the Minister were to talk about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u173	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u174	I do not want to interfere with your answer, but perhaps it would be useful if you deal with the amendments before you start the case. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u175	That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u176	Very good. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u177	I am still working on the general questions about transnational education. I shall then deal with the amendments and then come to the specific case. Mr Van Meenen and Mr Grashoff asked about the added value of transnational education over other forms, such as joint degrees. The added value is that the presence of a Dutch institution is more robust at a subsidiary. You don't have to work with others anymore, but you can take the initiative yourself. That also leads to more profiling. I repeat that this form of transnational education is not more important or better than other forms, but is an addition to the current collection of international cooperation. Mr Grashoff also asked about public institutions with a commercial income model. I have just said that it is not a commodity and not an economic revenue model. There must be added value in terms of content. I will always assess a specific proposal on that. Does the provision of training abroad add anything to the quality of higher education? Does it have social and educational added value? This can sometimes be the case, because networks are being developed, or because it is easier to achieve student and teacher exchange. The fact that there is a private branch within a public institution is not weird. The fact that there are universities that have a holding company fits into the whole framework of whatever we want to stimulate with "sorry" for all the English words, chairman of science parks and start-ups. That has become a very common part of our Dutch higher education. That's okay, as long as the separation between public and private resources is strictly secured. We have also had a number of discussions on this in recent years. I think this is well secured, partly thanks to the WRR's influential report on public interest. We can discuss this with each other for a very long time, but I note that Dutch universities and colleges are doing well today. Mrs. Asante has asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u178	I see that Mr Grashoff wishes to intervene. Mr Grashoff, I do hesitate, because the Minister answered your questions quite extensively at the beginning, when you were not there. So you may have missed something, but that seems to me to be your problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u179	No, I'm not. My question is about educational added value. I've heard a lot, even when I was just outside the door. The Minister says that there must be an educational added value in applying this model of transnational education. But what is this added value compared to the already existing models of cooperation? Exchange of students is already possible. Exchange of employees is already possible. Collaboration in research is already possible. So I wonder what this particular model adds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u180	I think I just tried to report that. In all these other forms there is intensive cooperation between two institutions, while in this form you can determine and shape the education entirely from a Dutch institution. This makes it easier, for example, to exchange students and teachers between that campus there and the university or college, and to develop an educational concept that you have developed here on a campus elsewhere. Again, I am not saying that this form is better than the other forms. I believe that these forms can exist side by side, as I would also like to make it easier to arrange study funding for, for example, joint and double degrees. I think that too is a very important form of internationalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u181	We can arrange something with scholarships more easily than by setting up a complete legal entity with its own training institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u182	We're not gonna do that with this. That's another part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u183	I am looking for the added value of this model compared to other models. The Minister says that it is this or that it could be, but I do not see that added value so far. If the added value is that you are about your own education, I say: you can also do that in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u184	Yes, but the added value is that you can do it elsewhere if you need it elsewhere. You may increase your visibility by profiling not only in the Netherlands but also elsewhere with programmes in which you are unique. From there, you can also strengthen your networks. It can have huge advantages if you do so together with another institution that is strong in that too. But if there is no institution in a country or a continent that is strong in something that you are strong in, what is against you developing that education there? That you do so from that strong profiling that you have developed here, provided that there are clear guarantees of public interest, the quality of education, academic freedom and so on? Mrs Asante asked about the role of the inspection. In general, it can operate mostly from the Netherlands. This applies, for example, to the separation of public and private resources. If it is necessary or if the inspection considers it necessary, it can always visit the site. I shall come back to the amendment that has been tabled on this subject. Mr Bishop asked whether the legislative proposal is a condition for authorisation. The standard is that each initiative must be authorised. That's what we do in the AMvB. This also applies to the condition that the inspection must have access to the country and establishment in order to carry out its duties. That's an important part. Mr Rog asked me exactly what conditions I set for unconditional accreditations. In the note on the report, I have already indicated that I would like to include the CDA's suggestion in the development of accreditation requirements. It is the suggestion that two rounds of unconditional accreditation should be taken as a standard. I believe it is important that only training courses with unconditional accreditation should be allowed to provide training abroad. I also see something about whether the training has previously been subject to conditional accreditation. So that comes back to the AMvB. Mrs Asante asked about the design of participation in training abroad. For a funded institution, if it adopts the plan to provide training abroad, it shall mention that plan in the institution plan. Participation has the right of assent to the institution plan. The WHW chapter on participation does not apply to training abroad. This also applies to legal persons in higher education who provide training in the Netherlands. I've just gone over that. They do not receive public funding either. In my view, therefore, we are going along this line consistently. Mr Van Meenen asked whether I see risks for the profiling of Dutch higher education in projects of this kind. No, if carried out properly and with the right guarantees, I see an added value. I have already said that I see the positive elements, but also risks. So it's about how we can properly segregate those risks. With the amendment of the law, I also aim to adapt Article 1.19 in such a way that I can give prior consent and that we can see it if there are any negative elements. Mr Van Meenen asked what my definition of "academic freedom" is. That is the right that is linked to the freedom of opinion and expression of teachers, researchers and students. When teaching, conducting research and receiving education, they have the freedom to follow their own scientific insights and should not depend on certain political, philosophical or scientific theoretic views. I believe that access to the Internet, with the Chamber, is an important means of freedom of expression and formation. In an application, therefore, I will not only generally check the way in which the institution guarantees academic freedom, but also specifically check the way in which the institution guarantees access to the Internet. This brings me to the amendments. With the amendment in part No. 15 members of Asante and Rog want the proposers to understand the way in which the income generated by training abroad is re-destined and to the extent that this re-destination is in the interest of the quality of higher education in the Netherlands. I understand the reasoning behind this and therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I would add that this added value should never be just material. However, it must be clear what this added value is. I have just mentioned the example of an education on Aruba or Curaçao. This could be different from a huge campus in a very large country, such as China. I'd like to be able to do customization for that. However, I understand the need. In fact, it is an additional guarantee to ensure that no public funds go elsewhere and that there is a great deal of thought about the purpose for which funds may be released. In the motion in part No. 16
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u185	Amendment. The amendment in part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u186	15. Sorry, the amendment to part No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u187	You said "motion."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u188	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u189	I have a question to clarify, which I believe I have already asked Mr Rog. The Minister talks about added value. There are cases where you start something up, wherever it is, and the amount that comes back I speak for a moment in terms of value is zero, especially in the early years. But that's what the Minister's just taking into account in the assessment, isn't it? It's not like that zero is a condition in itself to say: now am I going to refuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u190	No. The aim of the amendment is to indicate the way in which the income generated by training abroad is re-destined and the extent to which this re-destination is in the interest of the quality of higher education in the Netherlands. I also read this in the explanatory statement. So it depends entirely on what that added value is. It can also be zero, as long as it is not negative and is paid from the Netherlands with public funds. We've already secured that in another way. We have said that this is one of the criteria, because that can never be the intention. I shall now turn to Mr Van Meenen's amendment to item No. 16. I think it is positive in itself to make additional demands on quality care and the safety and rights of students and staff. I just think that this is in the amendment to item No. 17, which I will deal with in a moment, is better worked out than in this amendment. Furthermore, I believe that transnational education should be subject to the provisions that apply to non-cost institutions, since transnational education is not funded either. I do not agree with what is said about participation rights, namely that they should apply in exactly the same way abroad. In my opinion, that is unworkable. Especially the two-year permit, I really don't think it's workable. Every two years, institutions should be asked to submit their decision to provide training abroad to participation. That could mean nothing's gonna happen at all. So I am not in favour of that. I therefore recommend that the amendment be rejected. 16. The amendment tabled by Mr Asante and Mr Rog to item No. 17 contains a large number of provisions to be included in the AMvB. They concern the financial risks, the state contribution, security, rights and diplomatic relations, as well as the legal anchoring and the veil. This means that there is both a strengthening of the substance and a strengthening of political control. I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber, because I see that it is an addition. I also see that it is consistent with sounds that I have heard not only from the two proposers but also from others. It also fits in with a number of points that I had already mentioned but which are now formally laid down. This means that my successor cannot simply undo an initiative with a ministerial arrangement. This amendment also gives the Court greater certainty, for the longer term, that the consent requirement will be maintained, as will the criteria on which it is to be assessed. So it is even more in the hands of the Chamber and the Minister to answer the question in every case: are we going to continue with this or not? I trust that these data will be handled wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u191	I see an interruption by Mr Van Meenen of D66 on the Minister's opinion on the amendment tabled by Mr Asante and Mr Rog. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u192	No, you don't see that very well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u193	Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u194	A comparison was made between my amendment to item No. 16 and the amendment to item No. 17. I'd like to ask a question about that. I think that only the amendment on item No. 16 referred to academic freedom as a test criterion. That is not in the amendment to item No. 17. It's just not in there. This is quite apart from what the Minister has to say about the amendment to item No. 16 and I could possibly table an amended amendment to that effect. But at the heart of this amendment is the testing of academic freedom. Does the Minister agree with me that this is in the amendment to item No. 17 does not appear as a test criterion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u195	There is a good reason for that, because it is not necessary. As I said before, academic freedom has already been secured. This always applies to higher education, funded and not funded, in the Netherlands and in transnational education. This is enshrined in Article 1.6 of the WHW, which is an existing article. If consent is given, we will examine it, regardless of whether it is still in an amendment or not. This is a very, very timely point for me. So I'm glad it's already in the law. So it doesn't need to be written into an amendment anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u196	If that is the case, I imagine that a lot of elements of the amendment to item No. 17 are also valid for Dutch and therefore also for foreign institutions. Or isn't that the case? So what exactly are we doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u197	No, because these parts have, as in the amendment to item No. 17 has been formulated, specifically concerning the new form of transnational education. That's not in the WHW yet. I would say: let us welcome Mr Van Meenen in the lead, because he has put a great deal of emphasis on academic freedom and that that part is indeed secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u198	But it can't be both true, can it? The Minister says that we should explicitly guarantee it for the new form with the amendment in part No. 17, but it doesn't apply to academic freedom. Until now, academic freedom has only applied to forms that we have known so far and not to this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u199	Academic freedom has so far applied to all forms of higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u200	Yeah, to the shapes we knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u201	If we extend to transnational education, academic freedom also applies to transnational education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u202	I'm sorry, Mr President, but this is legislation, so maybe I can get on with this. That is the reasoning you should also take on the elements in the amendment to item No. 17, but the Minister does not reason in this way. She says that until now it only applied to the forms we knew. Now that there is a new form, namely transnational education, we must explicitly name all these other requirements, but academic freedom is not, because it is always there and everywhere. On what basis does the Minister say that? How does she make a difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u203	I would like to take a specific look at the amendment to item No. 17. There are very specific issues that really relate to a new initiative. There's a lot of nothing in there either. Much more could be included on all kinds of components, for example on the authorisation or design of accreditations. It's just called. The specific elements relate to the shaping of training abroad. This concerns the State contribution to training abroad, the scale and scale of the initiative, the way in which the continuity of training is ensured in the Netherlands and the diplomatic relations between the Netherlands and the country concerned. So that's not a general WHW article, but a focused WHW article. Again, academic freedom is formulated in article 1.6 of the WHW. During the legislative debate, everyone can take that up again. If Mr Van Meenen can convince me that it is not enough in the law and that more is needed for transnational education, then he has me immediately on his side to come up with an amendment. But then again, I object to the amendment on item No. 16 because there is also a role for participation which I consider impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u204	I have one final question, Mr President. Would it make sense, at least in the eyes of the Minister, to amend the amendment in such a way that the academic freedom in the country in which the establishment is located should also be assessed? We can find all kinds of academic freedom here, but in other countries, for example in China, there are very different views on this. That's just about the establishment. Well, then you'd have to make that a requirement, wouldn't you? We say that we are very fond of it in the Netherlands, but do we think it is okay if the establishment is located abroad and they are not attached to it? How are we gonna prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u205	If Mr Van Meenen did this, he would do something dangerous. In doing so, he creates the situation that there can be a more marginal test than we do now in the WHW. I'll tell him I'll bring in the article later. Perhaps I can come back to it at the end of my first term with the help of the article. This allows us to consider whether it is desirable to focus more on the balancing framework we are making in the AMvB, or whether it is going to weaken academic freedom. The latter would now be my suspicion, because it might make academic freedom a relative concept. This allows academic freedom in one country to be weighed in a different way, perhaps less heavy, than in another. The amendment in part No. I advise 18 of Mr Van Meenen on a heavy follow-up procedure, because I have already promised that I would send the AMvB to the Chamber. I also have no objection to making this a legal task, but I do object to making it a follow-up. Its added value is limited, while making the process unnecessarily viscous. I believe that the amendment tabled by Mr Asante and Mr Rog, which has already been mentioned, has sufficiently secured the role of the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 19 of Mr Rog and Mr Asante deal with the costs of monitoring. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. I have just said that the inspection must always be able to exercise control and supervision and that it will normally be possible to do so from the Netherlands. One should be able to visit on location. That's what they're gonna cost. I think it is a good thing to say that the institution must pay for it itself. I would add that I am going to try to shape this in such a way that it does not lead to the counting of receipts at the inspection, but that a kind of general rule is agreed, perhaps depending on the size or distance. This does not make the administrative burden disproportionate. Mrs Siderius asked where students can go if something goes wrong with the foreign institution. One of the amendments calls for an exit strategy. What do you do if things don't go well? Then, first of all, it is the institution's move. However, I assume that students will be able to make their complaints known at the establishment abroad. I have already said that the application for authorisation will indicate, among other things, how education will be organised abroad and where students will be able to go if something goes wrong. Now I come to the case of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u206	Before we get to the Chinese side dish, I ask the Minister what is the situation with regard to the amendments to item No. 10, 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u207	They will be coming shortly, because they relate to other parts of the law and not to transnational education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u208	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u209	I would also like to deal with these amendments first if you wish, Mr President. It is, however, logical to continue with the subject of transnational education in the law, because that is still the case of the University of Groningen and the Yantai campus. Mr Van Meenen and Mrs Siderius asked what this could bring. I have already dealt with this in a general way. To this end, strengthening international networks and building structural partnerships with key players in the international education market, such as China, can also be valuable. I do not know if we know how many university and university courses already have contacts in China and already cooperate with China, also at MBO level. My Chinese colleague stopped by because the Chinese want to encourage cooperation. I find it interesting that they genuinely have the idea that students can learn something from each other and that they can also learn something from our education. It may be useful for cooperation to take shape in education and research, but it can indeed, very clearly and not the other way around, also relate to economic sectors. I understand from the University of Groningen that she sees opportunities to attract Chinese research money from her potential location in China. More research money could mean more opportunities for researchers, including Dutch researchers. This can help to ensure that the UG retains the high position in the rankings, not through an economic earning model, but through more cooperation. This can also be used to attract funding for research funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u210	I really wonder why this law and this AMvB are needed for that. I mean, international cooperation can do without this law, can't it? It's already happening. That's what the minister said in the introduction. I really wonder why such a prestige project should be set up, while international cooperation is already possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u211	I repeat: international cooperation is already possible in a lot of ways, but not in this form. This form can add something, precisely because a university can put its stamp on it more often and thus perhaps bring in more research money. The University of Groningen together with Yantai can design the exchange of students and teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u212	The question remains why this research money can't be collected now, whereas it can only be done by this law if students spend 100% of their study time in China instead of 75%. That research money can be collected now, can't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u213	It is not the case that there can be no research cooperation now, but it can be done on a more limited scale. It cannot be said under the heading of a Dutch institution that is highly regarded, in this case the UG: it is part of us in China. It can only be done now as a discipline, as a domain, but not as an institution. That makes the position less strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u214	All that Chinese research money; I think China is only working with us because it wants to get better. They want to improve the quality of education. That's what they're using us for. There will be Chinese research money, but all the research is de facto Chinese property. What strategic importance does the Netherlands have in this regard? I understand that we are now dealing with agricultural techniques, and perhaps other techniques. Iran was concerned with all kinds of dual use technologies, which are used in all kinds of secret weapons systems. What is our moral obligation to make Chinese education of better quality? China isn't such a big friend. Iran is certainly not a friend. Are we thinking about that, too? Is that something the universities are considering?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u215	That's why I made a permit requirement. I want to control where it happens, with what agreements and what intentions. The framework I use is always whether it has an added value for the quality of Dutch education and the profiling of Dutch education abroad. I see that this world is already developing very internationally. It is interesting that a Dutch university has been invited to start one of the ten campuses that China wants to build in this way. First of all, it is up to the institution, but it is my responsibility for the institution to present it to me properly, so that I can see whether it is not doing it in an irresponsible way. But the question is whether you want to participate in this international world, which has long existed and continues. Or do you say, "I don't want to?" I think we should do it, but we should check it out. We have been asked about the decline in the number of students. Is that the reason to do this, as well as attracting second and third flows of money? I do not think that the search for the cause alone in a declining number of students is sufficient. I certainly do not think that is enough when it comes to an economic income model. But we have to be honest: universities have to deal with shrinkage. It is not for nothing that Groningen and Maastricht have the largest number of international students. This is not only necessary for their business model, but also to create an international classroom, to have different groups of students and to have diversity in their research groups. That's a little less easy in Groningen than it might be in a big Randstad university. That's all right now. Not only does Groningen have a Dutch Nobel Prize winner, but also knows how to attract other international research groups. How are you gonna do that? Mr Van Meenen asked whether we could not start with a pilot. I think a pilot is very complicated, but I have agreed with the University of Groningen that it should be phased out. Let me be clear: I haven't made a decision at all. I am now making a law that allows me to make an AMvB which, with the amendments, is already very much more specific on a number of points. There are tough demands, but we are still not there. An application still needs to be submitted. If I get an application, I won't approve it when it comes to a campus for 10,000 students. I also understand from the University of Groningen that she wants to start much smaller with 500 to a maximum of 600 students, four Bachelor's programmes and two Master's programmes. Then it is not formally a pilot, but then it goes step by step and controlled. This gives you part of the same effect as a pilot. Is it true that students in Yantai don't make any money at all? That's what Mrs Siderius is asking. It is true that the tuition fees that students pay in Yantai do not directly benefit the Dutch branch of the UG, but there is also no public money going. If that were to happen in the long term, the amendment tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Asante will have to provide an insight into what happens with these means. Do I understand the economic interests involved? Again, it has to be about education, about research. There may also be economic elements, for example because you work with agricultural companies in this case. We also do this in the Netherlands with public-private partnerships. That's what we're encouraging there. Think of the centers or expertise, the science parks and the start-ups. There's nothing wrong with that, as long as it's not leading. Mrs Asante asked where the Dutch part of the investments came from. Well, that's from the UG's private money flow. I do not want to anticipate the plans of the UG, which I will look critically at. As soon as training is started in China, the costs will be passed on to the private legal entity in China, which is established together with a partner institution. How are academic freedom and participation guaranteed in Yantai? Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog asked. In general, I have already said that academic freedom is guaranteed in the WHW. When it comes to participation, the WHW chapters on staff and participation do not apply to training abroad. It is therefore up to the institution to decide how participation is to be regulated in the country of establishment. Academic freedom is enshrined in Article 1.6. I can imagine that, depending on the country you are going to, it may be desirable and necessary to make additional agreements with the foreign partner and the government there on how that academic freedom will be secured. I will assess the measures taken by the institution on academic freedom when applying. If, in a specific case, it is clear that there are major risks, then I may refuse permission or decide to attach further rules to the consent given to the institution. Around academic freedom, the position of the staff must of course also be well secured. That goes without saying. Of course, there will also be a direct relationship with the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the consideration, because of course there are countries you do and you do not want to make agreements with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u216	Of course, Mr Van Meenen also wants to know where the letter is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u217	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, but all in good time. First of all, I have another question about academic freedom. Chinese law states that there must be compulsory Marxist lessons. Let me put it a little more generally. Suppose, in a country where there is such an establishment, there must be compulsory political indoctrination. According to the Minister, does that fall within the limits of what we call academic freedom here in the Netherlands, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u218	Then that does not fall within what we call academic freedom. If there should be indoctrination and if everyone should have to learn Marxistically, I cannot imagine that an application would be approved. May I, by the way, share with the Chamber an interesting experience that I gained 20 years ago? I then lectured in China, including in Beijing and Shanghai, on the socio-economic model in Europe, the different forms of the welfare state. What I learned at that time was that Chinese students had actually only gotten to know a very tight communist system, but that they also knew the American Milton Friedman theory by now, when they had no knowledge of what was happening in Europe. By the way, I have experienced the students in China as sponges. I have been to China on several occasions, and it is my experience that there is a very self-conscious young generation that really does not allow itself to be put into a Marxist straitjacket anymore. But I do agree with Mr Van Meenen that we also have a responsibility. I can't rely on my own experiences and the opinions I hear from Chinese students. We must ensure that too. But let us show a bit of a sense of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u219	That's a very interesting story, but I'm just looking at the reality of the law in China, the law cited in the business case. It simply states that there must be compulsory Marxist education for students. My question to the Minister is this. Is it conceivable that there will be an AMvB, a framework, whatever the framework, with the whole list of amendment No. 17, in which it is ultimately possible for a school under Dutch authority to teach Marxism? Is that conceivable in the eyes of the Minister, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u220	No, I don't think that's imaginable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u221	Okay, then we're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u222	Well, Mr Van Meenen is ahead of a business case that I have not assessed in this way. Let us do it carefully with each other. We're dealing with a law here. Let us lay down that law. Let us note that amendments have been tabled which include far-reaching provisions at AMvB. As I have just said, I would be happy to return to academic freedom in the second term, but with the legal text, including Article 1.6 WHW, and then consider whether it is still desirable to regulate the framework of the AMvB a little more. This is, of course, a point we are looking at. When I say that academic freedom must be guaranteed, academic freedom must be guaranteed, and that cannot mean that all students must take only one kind of information and must base their scientific insights on it, whether it be Marxism or Milton Friedman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u223	Not just one kind, no, this. This is what they have to take. In addition, they may hopefully take on anything else, but at least this is mandatory. Anyway, we'll see about that. We are apparently working towards a high point where we are going to stare at Article 1.6, which consists of a single sentence, namely: academic freedom exists, or is guaranteed, or something like that, and that is it. My point is that this is not enough to guarantee academic freedom in this very situation, in which for the first time we are really crossing the border with institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u224	Then I'd like you to tell me what you see. I understand his general remarks about academic freedom. I could even imagine that I would look at the authors of the amendment to item No. 17 If you think it is necessary to record it again, you will have to look at it three times. That would be my proposal if you were so committed to academic freedom. But the amendment in part No. 16 is simply not desirable for other reasons. It doubles with the amendment in part No. 17 and it's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u225	Last time, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u226	I will amend the amendment to item No. 16 or perhaps a whole new amendment which is just about this. I will not further burden the Minister with the fact that there are very different views on participation in China, for example. I'll let that out. Then we'll talk about academic freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u227	I come to the role of participation and the discussions that have taken place at the University of Groningen itself. Several Members have asked questions about this. Mrs Siderius specifically asked about the involvement. For me, it is important that the UG has promised that the university council will still have the right of assent to the application to be submitted. The UG is far from there. It is not only this law and the AMvB that is involved, but it is also necessary to draw up a plan to obtain my consent and the consent of the university council. It has also been agreed that the relevant faculty councils will have the right of assent at the time when there is a intention to launch a new programme in Yantai. In this way, participation remains involved in the gradual growth process. I see no reason to lay down more detailed rules. If you appreciate that, I can send you the letter I received from the chairman of the board and the chairman of the university council. Then you know exactly what was agreed in Groningen. I would like to say to Mrs Siderius that from now on the letter is public. I think that the University of Groningen has done very nicely by waiting for the letter to be made public at once, even in this room. There was no reason to withhold those anywhere and from anyone in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u228	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u229	It is nice that the letter should be made public in this way, because apparently the content was a great secret. I'm not saying that's up to the Minister. Apparently, the college president had to keep it all a secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u230	Mrs Siderius may criticize a college president. I'm fine with all of that. I have just tried to point out that the letter has not been made public before, so that the publication in Groningen and here in the Chamber would be simultaneous. The moment I hand over the letter to the Chamber, it will also be public in Groningen. That seemed like the UG too. If the letter were to be distributed there first, it might have raised questions here again. Now we can do it nicely at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u231	My question was about something else; of course it has something to do with this. That letter came because those two groups were flogged back on the university council when they wanted to make a statement about this prestige project. How does the Minister feel about articles being censored in the University Newspaper on this subject? A motion by my colleague Jasper van Dijk has been adopted to ensure the independence of university journals. Now it turns out that some articles have been censored. How does the Minister feel about that? Is she willing to get to the bottom of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u232	No, because I don't have any signals that articles have been censored. I gave the Chamber the original of the letter with the signatures of the College President and the President of the University Council underneath. In it, Mrs Siderius can read what agreements have been made, including with the faculties, about the right of consent. I have no reason to doubt the authenticity of this letter. I also have no signals about control, limitation or censorship of a university newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u233	This isn't about the letter. This is about the articles in the university paper. The former chairman of the University Council clearly states that articles have been censored. That seems to me to be rather harsh, because of course we do not want to do so, and I do not believe that the Minister will either. So it seems logical to me that the Minister should find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u234	I'll leave that at the University of Groningen. I believe students and also the editors of the university newspaper men and women are enough to go and fight about it with those who are involved. I do not think it is appropriate to discuss this at this level. That would also be very distracting from the case we are talking about. I would like to answer a few more questions. Mr Van Meenen asked about my involvement and wanted to know if I could say no. Yes, because I'm going to study the application of the University of Groningen very carefully. I do have that letter with me in 2015 and I will now distribute it to my colleague, Deputy Prime Minister Hao Ping, on this request from the University of Groningen. I have written that I find that interesting, that we are working on internationalisation, that we can do it now for three quarters, that is to say 25% in the Netherlands, and that the legislation for that is this bill, because it has been in place since 2009. I say to Mr Van Meenen that I also wrote that we must look very closely at the principles of the Dutch system of higher education in the follow-up agreements and developments. In particular, I refer to academic freedom and independence, high quality and quality control, as well as transparency. So this has reached China in any case in a general sense. Mr Van Meenen also asked whether there is any cooperation and what the working group looks like. I can be brief: we don't have a working group, so I can't tell you what it looks like and what it cost. I do know that expertise has been used to look at the preparations that have already been made by the University of Groningen, because we do want to know a little bit about what might come next. I have already included in my 2014 vision letter that I want to make transnational education possible. There have been delegations. I went to China myself once with a higher education delegation. My dg Higher Education, Vocational Education, Science and Emancipation has been there twice, including a visit to the campus of New York University in Shanghai. We hadn't mentioned them either. So a lot of universities are already in progress, and we can learn from that. Mr Van Meenen also asked what had already been invested. I understand from the UG that the initial investment has so far been less than a million and that it has been financed from private funds. Mr Rog asked at what time I could tell more about Yantai's plans. The AMvB is expected to enter into force in January 2018. Then the University of Groningen can apply to me and I will take note of the specific plans of the University of Groningen in Yantai. Mr Van Meenen has asked a number of questions about teachers and researchers. He asked if the focus will not be lost and if knowledge will not be lost. I'm gonna say that all at once, no. We are now going to arrange with the AMvB that the quality of Dutch education should never suffer from activities in China. It can create stronger networks. There must and will be safeguards to ensure that resources do not flow out of there. This brings me very briefly to the other themes. I'll start by extending promotional rights. Mr Duisenberg asked if we were to open up too much. It's not a matter of throwing open, but of creating an international level playing field. I trust that a PhD candidate himself will decide who his promoter will be and that the expert opinion of the Promotions Board will then play an important role in assessing the suitability of the promoter. When I look abroad, we've had the Rathenau Institute do research on that. I see that there are many countries where the right to act as a promoter has not been exclusively granted to the professor. But I am with the authors of the amendment to item No. 10, so with members Bishop and Duisenberg, agree that it is generally desirable that it should always be a professor. However, I would like to leave room for very special exceptions. This concerns someone who is not a professor, but who has a special career and is also recognized by the Promotions Board as a promoter because of his or her special qualities. I think it is a very good general rule that it should always be people who have been promoted. On the other hand, I think there are sometimes special exceptions. It is precisely to make that possible that I would advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u235	I'm not saying this to correct you, because you got a whole pile of paper. But in order to avoid confusion, you referred to the amendment to item No. 10, while you have just responded to the Bishop/Duisenberg amendment to item No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u236	The minister mentioned that research at the Rathenau Institute. That was also a basis for the amendments proposed. Now that report does say that in these countries too other than professors are promoters. This person must meet a number of requirements; for example, he himself must have a doctorate and sufficient research experience. That is precisely the point that Mr Bishop and I would like to add. With the amendment you can be a promoter if you are a professor, or a special professor. So you can also be a promoter in special situations, or in other situations, where you at least wrote that dissertation yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u237	I believe that the Rathenau Institute report shows that there are countries in which professors cannot be promoted. I fully agree that it is not desirable that this should become a general line, but there are professors who have not been promoted. Sometimes it's not the least of them. They sometimes have enormous status. Let me add: we have the College for Promotions for that. It's made up of professors. That college must always apply quality assurance properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u238	Those professors with these special statuses are also not excluded. These are professors or professors in particular. That could be people with a huge track record, or people who are professors for another reason, but who have at least been promoted. Indeed, in the list of countries in the report of the Rathenau Institute, not all countries are subject to this provision. But the institute writes that most countries say that a doctorate degree and sufficient research experience are real prerequisites. This does not apply to all countries, but to most of the example countries examined at the Rathenau Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u239	I don't have the report from the Rathenau Institute right now. I would like to come back to this in the second term. I hope that my staff will be able to provide me with this information so quickly. However, my impression was that at the Rathenau Institute they say that in most cases they are people who have been promoted, but there are also exceptions. What exactly is our intention with this part of the bill? Our intention is to make the Dutch system more compatible with the international system. The difference of opinion is therefore only about how to guarantee that quality. Do you do that by demanding that one should always be promoted? Or can you imagine that someone hasn't been promoted, but has very special experience, maybe done a lot of research or for some other reason has a very special track record? We have also had this discussion about HBO. Does anyone who teach there need a master's degree? I sometimes said: I would be sorry if Johan Cruijff, who started the Johan Cruyff Academy, could not have taught there at the time. That was one of whom, in my opinion, at least part of his expertise was beyond doubt, but did not meet the requirement of the formal title. That's the kind of theme I'm thinking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u240	Did you have one more question, Mr Duisenberg? That's possible, but I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u241	So what it's going to be is that you have to be a professor or a special professor or you have to comply with the condition that you have done a PhD course yourself. The people with a special status, including Johan Cruijff, could still be more accompaniment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u242	But then we have no difference of opinion, but again the question is what exactly the amendment is about, because then you will already be a professor. So you have already proved that you have the status with which you can judge about the promotion of others. Again, in the Dutch system we also have the College for Promotions, which guarantees once more whether someone is suitable to accompany a promotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u243	This is legislation. If there is another technical question, it might be useful to ask it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u244	I have another clarifying question. Then I also know whether or not I want to file a motion. It is about the letter from the University of Groningen that the Minister received. It states that the University Council will still have the right of assent, rather than the right to advise, on the application which the University Council will submit on the basis of the AMvB to be drawn up by the Minister. Does this mean that the university council has one-off consent rights? Does the University Council also have the right to consent to other decisions, such as execution, subsidiary or if there are changes? Or is it just about the starting moment and the actual application?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u245	It is about the application that the University of Groningen is going to submit, that is to say the first application. The faculty councils then have the right of assent in the case of new courses. Mr Duisenberg asked the question of foreign students about the choice of study activities. Are they not creating impractical and unnecessary thresholds if they also carry out study-choice activities? According to the bill, the institution must offer a study choice activity and give advice, but it is free in the way it offers it, taking into account that foreign students sometimes live far away. A programme can therefore decide for itself whether it makes it compulsory to choose a course or whether it leaves the choice to the students themselves. That is why I do not think it is necessary to set a practical threshold. But it is a guarantee that this group, too, is at least thinking about this study-choice activity. Mr Van Meenen asked whether I could rule out the possibility that the allocation of funds from the Profiling Fund for students studying abroad would be at the expense of students with disabilities. No, this cannot be done at the expense of students with disabilities, as the institution is obliged to provide financial support from the Profiling Fund for special circumstances such as chronic illness or disability. So one can never say: sorry, but the money is gone, because we just supported a lot of students going abroad. Apart from that, participation has the right to consent to the institution rule of the Profiling Fund, which is also included. I come to the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Rog. He doesn't want the Profiling Fund to be used for study abroad. I would advise against that amendment. I told you, I want to encourage studying abroad. I think that this could be the way to shape that, but not at the expense of vulnerable groups, such as students with disabilities. Sometimes this can be done for outgoing mobility, if there are no other grants available, for example if you cannot get an Erasmus grant because you are going to study outside Europe or if the Holland Scholarship does not offer a solace, it is an important way to take that step. I therefore advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u246	I would like to hear from the Minister whether she shares the analysis that less money can go to students with disabilities or any other disability, because we are opening up the Profiling Fund to people seeking refuge abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u247	No, I do not share that analysis, because I have just told Mr Van Meenen that students with disabilities can always receive financial support from the Profiling Fund. So that group can't suffer. Apart from that, an institution can make sure that the Profiling Fund can be used to support students who may not otherwise go abroad. That will therefore mean an increase in the Profiling Fund. The opinion on Amendment No Mohandis/Duisenberg on item No. I'll leave 12 to the room. I think it is a good amendment, because I have also received the signals that the study burden of three-year courses of vwo's going to HBO presents problems and that we have not properly foreseen this in the legislative proposal for quality and diversity. It is important for students and for the quality of education to enable a study load of 240 credits instead of 180 credits. Mr Duisenberg asked when that would take place. Once the bill has been passed by the First Chamber, this section of the 240 credits can be introduced instead of the 180 credits. It is not mandatory, but it can then be used for special cases, for example in the case of BIG registrations. Mr Duisenberg and Mr Bertema also asked about Bachelor's programmes and the Dutch language. We teach a lot of English in higher education. Recent figures from VSNU show that 20% of all Bachelor's programmes are offered in English and 10% in Dutch and English. These figures also show that there is a wide range of Dutch-language offers in all HOOP areas. An exception to this is the HOOP area "cross-sector'. There are mostly university lectures in that. I have already asked the Academy to investigate the language policy of the institutions. I expect the results this spring. That will be a good time to continue the discussion about Dutch and English in higher education. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u248	But not according to Mr Van Meenen, who shoots out of his bench.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u249	First of all, my compliments for the letter to the Chinese Deputy Minister of Education. Too bad they don't care about it in China, but that's different. Furthermore, I'm still puzzled about that working group that would or wouldn't be there. I'm not making it up myself. It's those officials who work with the University of Groningen. I asked how far that went and at what level that cooperation took place. I'm getting that information from the business case of Groningen University itself. It says: "Regular meetings between the Ministry and UG have taken place and a working group consisting of civil servants from both organisations has been set up." So, whether what's in the business case isn't right, or what the minister is saying isn't right. I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u250	Once again, there is no formal working group and there is certainly no question of that working group making an assessment of the plans of the UG. It is true that my people share their expertise with people from the University of Groningen, so that we can also look into the steps they are taking and the possible consequences they may have. But they do so in all the institutions on many themes. There is no formal working group, but there is, of course, contact. I've already told you that my dg went to China, also to another university's campus. Obviously there is also contact between the University of Groningen and OCW at content level, although it is just to prepare a debate like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u251	This is a little strange. The final question is whether the Minister can look at this objectively, because she is in it on all sides. Her officials are cooperating, and even the king has been there. The minister just said that the UG should take it one step at a time. I don't know exactly how she said it, but she recovered right away. It all sounded very bad as: I can't go back; it's a course that's gone; the only obstacle we have yet to take is that annoying Chamber, but it will succeed. Can the Minister look at this objectively, or is she too deeply into it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u252	I don't feel like I'm so deep in it that I can't say no anymore. I want a careful judgment. We're dealing with a bill here. I sincerely try to separate the case-RUG/Yantai from what we do with each other here. Indeed, I see the benefits of transnational education. When I remember my visit to Aruba, I think it would be very good if we could take it a step further there. I can imagine that we do so in other places, but I want it to be controlled and I want it to be controlled. I didn't make the letter of amendment for nothing. I want to be able to say yes or no myself. You can still do that. We are now developing an assessment framework with each other and we are going to put the application next to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u253	This is really going to be a repeat of moves. I call Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u254	There is a venture between the University of Groningen and China Agricultural University. What exactly is that? This indicates a formal legal form, a kind of joint subsidiary. Can the Minister state the legal form and what that means for the legal liability of the University of Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u255	No, because it's really still about the frameworks of that plan. I want to do it step by step. If the UG makes an application, we're going to judge it on its merits. Then we will look at who she has a partnership with, how it looks and how it relates to all the points I have just mentioned, such as ensuring the public interest in the Netherlands, the quality of education and the independent position of students and teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u256	I believe that a clear statement has been made by the government on previous questions, namely that there is no question of any liability. But now I hear that all this has yet to be figured out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u257	No, we point out in the context that there can be no liability, because the initiatives taken by any institution abroad, for example what the University of China is doing, could be averted from public funds in the Netherlands. That's what we're gonna review the application for later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u258	I have to say that the information at different levels is not in line with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u259	What you're about to establish seems to me to be something for your second term. This brings us to the end of the Prime Minister's answer in the first term. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. Is there a need for a suspension prior to the second deadline? Members want a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u260	Mr Duisenberg has the floor as the first speaker in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u261	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for her competent reply so far. I believe that this is also the last plenary debate during this period. That's a special moment. We have heard the examples of universities from other countries: Oxford, Ghent, Maastricht, University of Amsterdam, Erasmus University Rotterdam, University of Groningen. Abroad, the University of Melbourne, John Hopkins University, New York University. It is clear, as the Minister also said in her opening words, that higher education is international. As well as Oxford, Harvard or any other university can position itself here in the Netherlands, it is good that Dutch institutions are given the opportunity to position themselves firmly abroad. We have higher education that we're proud of and that's good quality. There are opportunities for students, teachers and the Netherlands. But you have to manage the risks well. We have discussed this extensively and the VVD is satisfied with the answer. These kinds of conditions can be put into an AMvB, but it is also fine if it is through the amendments to pieces Nos. 15 and 17 comes into the law. That's what I'm going with. The amendment in part No. 16 is still being changed, so we look forward to that, but the two-year deadline is really not possible. That's not workable. I think we have had a very good debate. There are clear conditions under which institutions can take such steps. If you don't get out of there with the party from the other side, you don't have a deal. That is what I said in my contribution in the first term. That at least makes the framework on our side clear. This transnational education offers opportunities. Every now and then I felt like it was totally explained. I can do that myself on certain subjects, but I would be sorry if that were to happen. I therefore hope that those who were even more critical of this will say that it is possible to do so in the light of the guarantees given in this debate. Then institutions would have the opportunity to profile themselves in this way and we would have built in the safeguards to do so responsibly. The Minister added that if such steps are taken, as in the much discussed case of Yantai, it will be phased out step by step. There won't be an institution with 10,000 students next year. Six training courses are started and, in between, there is always a review of whether or not to proceed. We are therefore in favour of this proposal. I would like to hear a second comment on the amendment on the promoters, which I tabled together with Mr Bishop. They're working on it. I thank the Minister for her reply. I said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u262	Thank you very much. Let me see if your appeal to Mr Bertema has fallen well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u263	Mr. Chairman. So he's not. That internationalisation agenda, which we have discussed today, has been ideologically inserted, not from the old sentiment expressed by Mrs Asante of the Labour Party. She referred to the old social democratic adage of spreading knowledge, power and income. It even advocated international solidarity in this context. I get images of people dancing around the May Tree in Vierhouten. This internationalisation of course has nothing to do with sharing knowledge with the rejected of the earth, the damned in hunger. No, it's about globalisation, about creating a new cosmopolitan elite. Moreover, it is a business model and a survival strategy to cope with shrinkage in education and student numbers. The PVV is against this, as we see it, ideological attack on our nation state, our national identity, but above all we are today strongly opposed to the adventures that the University of Groningen wants to take on in China. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that Dutch tax money intended for education should be spent for the education of Dutch children and students;]] [[noting that the University of Groningen, a Dutch taxpayer-funded institution, is launching a private enterprise in China;]] [[considers that this will ultimately lead to an undesirable mix of private and public funds;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything in its power to prevent that subsidiary of the University of Groningen from being realized,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34355-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u264	I would like to thank the Minister for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u265	Mr. Chairman. The SP would like to make one motion in this period. This is about the participation around the project in Yantai, China. The track record, the history of participation around this project is not something to be very proud of. The university council received little information from the college president. All of a sudden, political groups were not allowed to make a statement from the university board. There were censored articles in the university paper. Other articles indicated that participation was surprised. There's a lot of frustration. Today we received a letter with the content: well, we give consent, but only on the application that the University of Groningen will submit, so not on the whole process and on the whole project. This may mean that there is no right of assent for the participation council if the project is changed after a period of time. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the application and method of working on the campus in China is controversial, because the board of the University of Groningen does not sufficiently involve students and employees in the decision-making process;]] [[considers that there should be maximum control not only in relation to the application but also in relation to other decision-making moments relating to an establishment abroad;]] [[calls on the Government to give full consent to participation in all decision-making processes concerning the start and further process of setting up a campus in China by the University of Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Siderius and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34355-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u266	Finally, my group really does not understand why this bill had to go through the Chamber before the elections with steam and boiling water. For this kind of foreign prestige projects we have to wait at all for the AMvB to arrive only by the summer. You would prefer to put both in perspective, also in combination with each other, and then make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u267	Mr. Chairman. The written procedure was already interesting and the Minister gave good answers, as I said in the first term. An interesting debate was then held in the first term in the Chamber. I thank the Minister for her proper response. I mean it. Maybe that's extra nice because this is the last time we're going to deal with a bill in the missionary state of the Chamber with this minister. So that's good. I have another question for the Minister about the Profiling Fund. I want a clear answer to the question of whether there is a 100% guarantee that any student who has no choice, for example a student with a disability, and for that reason is entitled to the Profiling Fund, which can always continue to do so despite the possible choice, after the participation of a university, to open up the Profiling Fund to students who are going to study abroad. If that is the case, I would like to announce that I will withdraw my amendment which will ensure that this becomes impossible. I also welcome the positive appreciation of the amendments to the documents. 15, 17 and 19. They are also crucial for my group to vote in favour of this bill. I am also pleased with the Minister's clear commitment that we will be discussing the specific issue of Yantai of the University of Groningen at a later date in the context of the AMvB in January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u268	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to point out to you, the Members and the Minister that we have tabled a new amendment which deals exclusively with the testing of academic freedom in this kind of situation of transnational education. I commend that to your attention. As far as D66 is concerned, there is no question of academic freedom if there is compulsory political indoctrination at a Dutch institution or at an establishment of a Dutch institution abroad. In the business case of the University of Groningen, I read that this will be the case in Yantai, because there must be compulsory Marxist and military lessons. The Minister considers it unthinkable that such an application should be authorised. I'm glad, because that would be dangerous. In the end, we would also restrict our own academic freedom in the Netherlands. If we accept that mandatory political indoctrination complies with our definition of academic freedom, then at the same time we undermine that academic freedom in the Netherlands. So I welcome that commitment. However, I would like to record it in a motion, because we are going to go into a missionary period afterwards and we do not know who will then be our minister. In any case, there may be a firm ruling in the Chamber underneath. It'll be like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Chinese law requires students to receive compulsory Marxist education at secondary locations of foreign universities in China;]] [[whereas such requirements directly contradict the principle of academic freedom as it exists in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government not to authorise transnational education in which academic freedom is not guaranteed in the same or similar way as in the Netherlands,]] [[calls on the Government not to authorise transnational education in which students receive compulsory education in a particular political ideology, such as Marxism, or where the composition of the curriculum and the content of the subjects is controlled by the government of the country concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34355-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u269	Mr. Chairman. In this treatment, the distinction between legal treatment on the one hand and the initiative of the University of Groningen on the other hand is difficult. I understand the Minister, who says: I am talking about the law now and not about the initiative. However, the two issues have been interlinked over time in such a way that the appearance of the law has been greatly increased that the law should be dealt with at a rapid pace to enable the initiative in Groningen, with all the commitment surrounding it, all the letters that have been written and all the drinks that have been drunk. That makes it even more difficult to really look at that law. I'm almost worried that if I say yes to this law, and pass the Yantai initiative, I'll get a present because we can't go back. That makes me extra suspicious. Let's get that straight. If I take these two things apart, I have two comments to make. The first one is about the bill. The Minister has not been able to convince me of the usefulness and necessity of this form of cooperation alongside all the other forms that already exist and are possible. I will take the bill back to the group, together with the amendments before us, to see if we can still see room for manoeuvre again. For now, it's not. The law doesn't do much to limit the risks, either, and I realize that they can be very different from one situation to another. My second comment concerns Yantai. I find this initiative very difficult. Academic freedom is currently not guaranteed. At all events, freedom of expression in China is not guaranteed. So what responsibility can and do we want to take? The financial risks are not sufficiently visible and insufficiently shielded. So this is already a profit warning for later, if we really have to judge this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u270	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her detailed reply. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Chamber for a good debate, in which everyone has made their own points. We are in favour of international education and of transnational education, because we see the benefits of this. Of course, we had a number of concerns. So we didn't just hang out the flag. I am pleased to hear that the Minister is leaving two important amendments which we have tabled together with the CDA to the Chamber. I'm comfortable with that. We shall therefore take a positive view. As far as Yantai and all other cases are concerned, I assume that there will be a good AMvB, in which our objections have been properly dealt with. We will test every individual application that comes along those lines and along the lines of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u271	I will wait until the Minister has arranged her papers, and then I will give her the floor for her last answer in missionary status in a legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u272	Mr. Chairman. Mr Duisenberg said he was pleased with the amendments to the documents. 15 and 17. He also said that the amendment to item No. 16 would be changed. I don't understand. I have not heard Mr Van Meenen say anything about this, but I have made a suggestion to Mrs Asante and Mr Rog to possibly together with Mr Van Meenen...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u273	Mr Van Meenen is about to cast light into the darkness. It's the other way around, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u274	There will indeed be an amended amendment to replace the amendment on item No. 16. It's about participation. There is also a new amendment. This is only about the assessment of academic freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u275	It is a bit complicated now, because there is also a motion by Mr Van Meenen on academic freedom. I have already suggested that this could be incorporated into the amendment on item No. 17 members Asante and Rog. That would be my preference. Then we are talking about the law at once. As we speak, Mr Van Meenen's motion on item No. 23 as it is now, want to dissuade. I am sorry that the Chinese case is being referred to on the one hand and on the other hand to the review framework. I can understand why he'd like to record something about academic freedom. I have said that this is formally superfluous because it is in the law, but given the other things we mention, this could be a solution. Then I would prefer to see the amendment. That is probably something the Chamber would like to have an opinion on, because it has to be voted on tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u276	We are going to listen to Mr Van Meenen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u277	As far as I am concerned, it can also be a sub-amendment to the Amendment No. 17; I'm fine with all that. However, that amendment does not say more or less than that in transnational education there is a test of academic freedom. Period. I would also like to comment on the verdict on the motion. The motion fills it in for this case. I want a ruling from the Chamber on this situation. Is it possible that the country where we're going to place the establishment in the review demands the curriculum as I described in the motion? That is a specification of the situation for which the Minister may be able to stand. So it's two loose things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u278	I find that difficult, precisely because it is so messed up and I want to treat the law carefully here. I am in favour of an amended or separate amendment which is in line with the Amendment No 2. 17 members Asante and Rog. If academic freedom is added, I can leave it to the Chamber, provided that it is also technically and legally in order. The motion in part No. 23 I do advise, because I do not think this is the issue now. There is a mix between that particular case and the general judgment. That's a mix-up. I think I have taken an important step towards Mr Van Meenen in the field of academic freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u279	I am pleased that the Minister wants to look positively at an addition. If that is not all right now, we will be able to get out of the addition of the test to academic freedom. But that doesn't matter...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u280	But when? Because this is going to be voted on tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u281	The new amendment is already there. It's already filed. I don't know why it's not here yet. That's all I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u282	It's not here yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u283	It is a very small, short amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u284	What are you doing with your motion? You're moving it in? Are you gonna keep that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u285	No, not at all, because this debate is also about the case of Yantai. If you do that, you may end up in a situation where there are contradictions with academic freedom, at least in the opinion of my group. I think we need to clarify this now. That's what I'm asking through that motion. I don't see any mixing of those two at all. Firstly, there is the general point that this kind of thing always has to be tested against academic freedom. Secondly, we already have a view, because we already know a lot about the case of Yantai. We are now giving an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u286	But the advice is clear. The other groups can also base their judgement on that. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u287	Again, I think that motion is really premature, because I can think of 20 more motions on Yantai.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u288	Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u289	I would like to have that debate in a more careful way. Mr Rog asked whether the disabled and chronically ill are always entitled to the Profiling Fund, even if we now decided that the Profiling Funds could be used to encourage study abroad. I can answer that question with a full yes. Chronically ill, disabled and students with disabilities can always benefit from the Profiling Fund, as the institution is obliged to support these students from the Profiling Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u290	Mr President, allow me to refer to the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Ten to move in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u291	The Rog amendment (Doc. 10, 34355) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u292	In his motion in part No. 21 Mr Beertema asked the government to do everything in its power to prevent that subsidiary of the University of Groningen from being realized. It is for the same reason that I advise against Mr Van Meenen's motion. After all, this is another motion on an individual case, and we are not ready for that at all. We are just working on the framework conditions for its assessment. Moreover, I think that the considerations are very premature, because we want to avoid the mix of public and private funding. In their motion in part No. 22 request that members Siderius and Jasper van Dijk give full consent to participation in all decision-making sessions at the University of Groningen. I also advise against this motion for the same reason, namely because it concerns the case. Apart from that, I believe that there is already a generous role for participation, as laid down in the letter from the President of the University Council and the Chairman of the Executive Board. I gave that letter to the Chamber. I would also like to point out once again that, not so long ago, we adopted the Law on strengthening the administrative power of educational institutions with a great deal of scope for participation. I think we should work with that now and not try to take new measures on an ad hoc basis. Mr President, this brings me to the end of my second term. I thank your room. I thank you. I'll thank the Griffin. It seems that you never know what will happen tomorrow. Indeed, this is my last debate as a missionary minister. But I'm just assuming that I may still meet you in a demissionary state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u293	Well, at least I'm not in this role, but others undoubtedly are. I shall give the floor to Mr Duisenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u294	I had another question to ask about the gravy PhD candidate with the minimum condition of being promoted as well. Mr. Bishop started his speech with: if you are going to climb a mountain, it is useful to do so with someone who has already climbed a mountain himself. The Rathenau Institute says that international often happens that others are promoters...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u295	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u296	... provided they meet the requirements, for example if they have a doctorate or sufficient research experience. I heard the minister. Apparently, because of the amendment, certain particular people can no longer be a promoter. I will talk to Mr Bishop about what we are going to do with the amendment and whether we should perhaps amend it in order to overcome the drawbacks that the Minister indicates. That's what we'll do before tomorrow's vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-22-tweedekamer-15.u297	This brings us to the end of the legal process. I propose that we vote tomorrow on the amendments tabled and still to be tabled, on the motions tabled and, of course, on the law itself.
