ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Fritsma. He is speaking on behalf of the PVV Group. Speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. The open border policy of this cabinet is extremely dangerous. Record numbers of asylum seekers have been admitted and the cabinet has completely lost its grip. This also applies to the part of asylum seekers who are rejected. While it is, of course, intended to leave the Netherlands as soon as possible, the cabinet does not know whether this will actually happen. The director of the Return and Departure Service recently indicated in the Algemeen Dagblad that 8,000 asylum seekers who were rejected in 2016 are unknown where they are, what they are doing and whether or not they have left the Netherlands. Her conclusion was: we have no idea. Then, of course, all the alarm bells must start ringing. The cabinet simply allows rejected asylum seekers to walk and even allows hundreds of criminals among them to go into illegality and to go on a raid in our villages and cities. The terrorist attacks in Berlin and Stockholm, for example, show in the most sad way what could be the result of such a course of action. Thousands of rejected asylum seekers, including criminals, simply letting go of Dutch society is unacceptable and poses a far too great security risk. It's a little risky being muffled away. The category we are talking about is registered as being "departed without supervision." That is, of course, misleading. After all, the departure is anything but certain. Be honest about this, I ask the Secretary of State, and consider them to be "disappeared" without trace. Making things more beautiful with words than they are, of course, never helps to solve the problems. Of course, it is more important to address the problem itself. What is the Secretary of State going to do to trace all those thousands of missing asylum seekers and get them out of our country? The PVV calls on the cabinet to apply the system of expulsion or detention standard for rejected asylum seekers or illegal persons. Once again, if there is no departure from the Netherlands yet, it is completely irresponsible to let them just walk, let them go into illegality and simply lose sight of them. I'd like to get a reaction to this. This chaos, which creates the cabinet, shows, of course, that it is high time to reach a full asylum stop. It can no longer go on like this that anyone who can say the word "asylum" is just allowed in here. This is all the more true now that the cabinet is not even able to get those who are not allowed to stay out of our country or even to keep in sight. I can leave it at that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, just within three minutes!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Millions of people have had to leave their homes in recent years. These people have fled wars, extreme violence, famine and other human tragedies at risk of their own lives. These people must be able to count on our help, because one characteristic of civilization is that we reach out to people who need help. At DENK we stand for a realistic, humane and just asylum policy. We believe that asylum seekers who have been processed and who can return to their country of origin in a safe and careful way should also be returned. Our government must make clear agreements with these people's country of origin in order to facilitate their return. But what do we do with asylum seekers who have been tried? Over 8,100 asylum seekers have been rejected in the last period. We cannot allow thousands of people to be left to their fate without any supervision. We see that many of these people end up in illegality. They come into the hands of crooked employers, house milkers and human traffickers. Some end up in crime, with all the negative consequences for our society. As far as DENK is concerned, these people are entitled to basic life benefits. Remembering these facilities should not be used as an instrument in a non-binding return policy, because for some of these people, unfortunately, it is still the only option because they are not safe in their own country of origin. The question is, where have these people gone? No one has an answer to this question. The director of the Return and Departure Service, Ms Jannita Robberse, also indicates that she cannot say with certainty where they are. We have no idea. Does the Secretary of State have any idea where these people might be? More importantly, what is the reason why the effectiveness of the expansion has become less? The International Organisation for Migration states that the Dutch authorities, inter alia, by abolishing the exit premium and providing assistance on return, have less view of asylum seekers who have been processed. Is it true that austerity has led to a less effective expulsion policy? Finally. It is painful to see more and more political parties fishing in the xenophobic and racist pond of the criminally convicted Geert Wilders and his undemocratic PVV. By using terms like "happiness seekers," "testosterone bombs," "rapists" and "criminals," these people are demonized. They make it look like every asylum seeker is a terrorist. By calling for resistance, it's going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	I agree with Mr Azarkan's approach that we have to accept people who are entitled to asylum. People who are not entitled to asylum must go back. That's what I understood from his words. Now the problem is that the countries to which they are to go, such as Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, say: we are not taking them back. What should the Secretary of State do, according to Mr Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	I think the Secretary of State should continue to work on an agreement with those countries. We shouldn't accept that we can't. In international diplomacy, we must continue to seek an agreement so that people can return safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	That sounds a little noncommittal to be honest, because of course the government has been doing that for a long time. On the North African side, however, there is a hard-on. That's where they say we're not taking them back. Only in exchange for a substantial financial compensation can we talk. Isn't that weird? Those people are done. Well, they'd have to go back, wouldn't they? What do you think of the attitude of these countries? How should the government deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	Again, I think it is wise in international diplomacy to weigh the interests well in relation to the countries with which we have to cooperate because we have a common interest. It is important for the Netherlands to ensure that people who have no right to stay here return. We must continue to negotiate this in the overall package. There are other interests that we must take into account. I myself find it sad that countries that could take people back do not do so out of some kind of negotiating strategy. I'm not happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. I call Mrs Keijzer on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the letter from the Secretary of State with which he responded to the article in the general newspaper. The portee of this letter was: old news, as evidenced by successive annual reports of the Return and Departure Service. That they are so, but that does not mean that this is a good thing. Appropriate return policy is the Achilles heel of asylum policy, as we all know. The CDA Group would therefore like to know where the 8,000 asylum seekers who have been processed are. You can't just conclude that they're all still staying illegally in the Netherlands. According to an estimation study, between 22,000 and 48,000 illegal immigrants in the Netherlands would be in the period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013. My question is whether this investigation also involves the residents of the bed-bath bread facilities who have not been in contact with the police. That is what the police investigation is based on. Is it necessary to re-examine the number of illegal immigrants present in the Netherlands? In any case, the residents of the bed-bath-bath facilities are all staying illegally in the Netherlands because they have been brought to an end and should leave. It is often said that they cannot leave the Netherlands. In this light, I am curious whether all these residents have gone through a so-called 'out-of-debt procedure'. That is my question to the Secretary of State. Another question. It is right that there should be no more return payments for asylum seekers from countries such as Morocco and Algeria who are sometimes twice AOW. Is it also true that there should be no more practical aid from the IOM to people from the Balkans, for example? Is that wise in the light of this subject? Last but not least, is it not even time to give the qualification "departure without supervision" a more accurate title that is more consistent with the analysis I found in the General Daily newspaper, namely "we have no idea where the people are"? Finally. Compliments from the CDA Group to the Secretary of State who wants European rules to make it possible for asylum seekers who have been tried to return to prison to be detained pending their expulsion. The CDA Group agrees that the detention of people should not be carried out too lightly, but protection should not go so far as to frustrate the actual transmission of people to their country of origin. In this light, I also ask the Secretary of State about a commitment made to my colleagues in the judiciary to arrest people who are suspected of having committed criminal offences in the country of origin, pending the charge and possible trial and conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mrs Keijzer just cut a relevant point, namely the bed-bath-bath-bath facilities. No less than 32 municipalities participate and collect people with tax money who are not even allowed to be here. That is indeed a major part of this problem. Why doesn't the CDA better distance themselves from the municipalities that do that? Keeps illegals here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u12	This is a real debate on the one hand and one on the other. On the one hand, people who have been put off must return to the country of origin. That's where everything's gonna have to be put in place. On the other hand, people start wandering the streets at some point. I was an alderman myself. I cannot imagine Mr Fritsma arguing that all these people should simply be put out on the street, because then you will again have problems with public order and security. These are two extremes of a very relevant problem which is of course also discussed at the formation table. Mr Fritsma will not be surprised. That's why I can't say anything about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u13	The CDA doesn't get it. These people must not be thrown out; these people must be deported. It is precisely by providing them with care over and over again through these municipalities, where unfortunately also CDA mayors are often at the helm, that the CDA ensures that these people do not leave, but stay here. In this sense, the CDA is also part of the problem. That's too bad. Change that, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u14	If I don't understand, I'll leave it to Mr Fritsma. I myself have an opinion on whether it is a good thing that there are mayors of the CDA house, namely that that is very good. Mr Fritsma tells us how complicated this problem is. He is right to say that people who have been brought to an end must be deported. In the interrupting debate with Mr Van Dijk of the SP Group, it was stated once again that this is complicated. There is no doubt that it must be done. In the end, everything has to be put on that. I believe that we share in this Chamber from left to right that the return policy is the Achilles heel of asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u15	Can we see that Mrs Keijzer will support the motion of the Forum for Democracy calling on the government to criminalise illegality and that people who have been put out of detention should be kept until they are effectively expelled, so that there is no longer any possibility of them wandering the streets?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u16	I have to assess all motions on their merits. New policies need to be discussed at the formation table, and that is why I cannot comment on them. It's a bit annoying, but it's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u17	So political games are more important than national interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u18	No, the formation table is being negotiated in the country's interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u19	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, we have seen the consequences of an uncontrolled influx of migrants to our country. Especially when it comes to large groups with different cultural values and standards, people are concerned about the right of existence of a free society such as ours and, of course, about the wealth built up. That is all the more reason to look carefully at who does and does not have the right to remain in our country. The Dutch are generally best prepared to receive a limited group of real refugees temporarily, but that does not apply to everyone who is looking for a better life. Over the past period, we have seen that about a quarter of the first asylum applications were made by people from a safe country, with the result that far fewer applications were accepted with a permit. In addition, the policy has been adapted to speed up the removal of asylum applications from asylum seekers from safe countries in order to facilitate a rapid return. It has also made it less attractive to come here at all, for example by abolishing return premiums for safe countries. For those who are not entitled to stay in our country, they must return to their country of origin as soon as possible. The VVD prefers to see that they participate in this. If they do not, forced departure is unfortunately difficult in certain cases. As much as we would like to, the Netherlands cannot turn off the proceedings in all cases. Countries such as Algeria and Morocco refuse to take their nationals back. We, as the EU, must therefore make a joint fist and increase the pressure on these countries further. This can be done, for example, by linking common consequences to trade relations, development money or visa conditions. However, it is clear that it is unacceptable for the VVD not only to refuse to leave but also to behave badly in this country. It is a good thing that the Secretary of State immediately laid down a package of measures in response to the incidents in the northern part of this country last summer. Can he indicate if any results are available?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u20	Why should we as the EU, why can't we just do it ourselves? We can simply stop all development aid to Morocco, we can immediately freeze all kinds of other relations, we can simply increase that pressure ourselves. We don't just have to wait a little while for these suckers to get moving in Brussels, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u21	I'm talking about a bigger fist. Of course we can do something ourselves, as we have done in the past, as with a country like Ghana. We can see that that has little effect if you do that alone. That is why I say: make a bigger fist, let us not let each other play out as Member States, but make sure that forced return is prominent on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u22	Can't we start as the Netherlands to do everything we can? If that doesn't work, well, then maybe we'll see if we can do something bigger. But we can take a few steps first, can't we? Nothing's gonna stop us from doing that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u23	No, and that's what's gonna happen. In replying to parliamentary questions by this Secretary of State, I read that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is going to Morocco shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr Azmani keeps a theoretical story, but the fact is that asylum policy is a chaos, partly created by the VVD. That uncontrolled influx that Mr Azmani is talking about was caused by the VVD. We are talking about thousands, even tens of thousands of asylum seekers who have simply been released from society. That's endorsed by the VVD. They are fine words from Mr Azmani, but what is he going to do, what is he going to demand from the Secretary of State to ensure that not one rejected asylum seeker ends up in the street? Because, as I said, he really plays with the safety of Dutch society. It's time to wake up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u25	I do not need to wake up, because I believe that I already presented a plan on behalf of my group in 2015 to prevent asylum seekers who do not have a chance to stay here from coming to the Netherlands and Europe. We see the first consequences of this, which is a falling inflow, by making agreements with third countries. I also think it is very special to have this debate today, as Mrs Keijzer rightly said: the return policy has been the Achilles heel of foreign policy for many years. Mr Fritsma knows that well, even from practice before he became a Member of Parliament. Mr Fritsma has made Rutte I possible, in which this same issue already played. Even then, there were people who weren't allowed to stay here. The system works in such a way that people have a duty to leave this country on their own. If they do not do so, then supervision measures and detention of aliens will only be followed. So I do not understand why Mr Fritsma is suddenly making such a big point of it as if it is something new. That has been happening for years and years, and Mr Fritsma knows that very well, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u26	The sad thing is that this has been happening for years. The VVD ensures that it is not solved. That's the big problem. Again, you release tens of thousands of rejected asylum seekers to Dutch society. That's dangerous. The Secretary of State doesn't even know who they are, because most people don't have papers. He may be looking weird right now, but he is. I ask the question again, Mr Azmani, because you did not just answer it. What demand do you make for the Secretary of State to ensure that this simply does not happen again, that thousands of rejected asylum seekers are no longer released to society? That's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u27	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u28	Why don't you support us in the point of locking them up as long as they don't leave? That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u29	I am disappointed in Mr Fritsma during today's debate. He may say that all the people who have been brought to trial must be put in alien detention, but he knows damn well that this is not possible at all. Putting people in custody is an ultimatum remedium. There's got to be a visual on eviction. If a country doesn't cooperate with expulsion, there's no sign of eviction either. Then the judge will immediately decide that such a person must be taken out of foreign detention. Mr Fritsma knows that damn well. He says here that we can put all people in foreign detention, but that cannot be legally and internationally judicially at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u30	Finally, Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr Azmani says that nothing is possible and that everything is established by rules. That's bullshit, because then we might as well go home right now. If rules stand in the way of this, they need to be changed. Mr Azmani does not even argue in favour of this. He lets the cabinet proceed with this mispolicy, creating dangerous situations in Dutch society. It's a political choice to let these people do what they want. It is very sad that the VVD makes that political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u32	This wasn't a question, but good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u33	There is only one solution and in 2015 I laid it down in a plan on behalf of the VVD. Ensure that there is no uncontrolled influx of irregular and illegal migration towards Europe and the Netherlands. Just do it by legal means. Then you don't have this whole return problem anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr Azmani says that it is not possible internationally to include asylum seekers who have been tried in detention. What's he basing that on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u35	You can put out-of-court asylum seekers in detention if they do not want to cooperate in their departure, but then there must be an insight into expulsion. You can't put someone in foreign custody for years because you're actually stopping someone completely. The instruments are not sufficient for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u36	If I understand Mr Azmani correctly, he makes a distinction between processed asylum seekers who go back to countries that do take them. We could put them in direct detention and processed asylum seekers who would have to go back to countries that do not take them. The latter cannot be put into automatic detention in the interpretation of Mr Azmani's international law. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u37	No, then there's got to be a visual on eviction at some point. If there is no sight of eviction that is judged after a six-month period, you cannot keep someone in custody in this country for years. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u38	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u39	People who have to go back to countries that do accept them in principle could be put in direct detention, even in Mr Azmani's view. I do not share that view, by the way. We have a different view, including with regard to people who are not included, but well, that aside. That is the interpretation of international law, according to Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u40	When you look at legal matters, foreign detention is the ultimate remedium. That's the last means you use. You first check if there are other instruments available, such as a notification obligation, stop and so on. If someone is really willing to return, you can also keep someone under surveillance through other instruments. Alien detention is the ultimatum remedium. That's the last resort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u41	Mr. Chairman. In 2016, there were around 17,000 rejected asylum seekers. So they have to leave the country. Half of them do indeed leave, but the other half leaves without supervision, as it is called. No one knows where they are. It's about 8,000 strangers. Does the Secretary of State have any idea what part of this is in the Netherlands? And what countries are the people who have disappeared from sight? Does this include Syrians and Eritreans, for example? If so, how come they have not received asylum? Or are people from Ukraine who are threatened by violence in Ukraine and therefore do not want to go back? And what about the 240 criminal aliens mentioned in the AD? Are they being prosecuted? Are they in detention? We read earlier about asylum seekers who disappeared from the picture. According to a message in the AD of 29 March, 2,000 rejected asylum seekers would have disappeared from the radar in the first two months of 2017. Can the Secretary of State confirm this? The Ministry claims in the article that it is "in itself no problem that a stranger has left without knowing the final destination." That sounds a bit like illegality wouldn't be a problem. I don't think that's the point. I would like an explanation of this. The high number is due inter alia to the fact that there is no longer any financial return aid available, i.e. the exit premium has been abolished, which would result in fewer foreigners returning. Does the Secretary of State share the view of the International Organisation for Migration that fewer people are returning from Morocco and Algeria, for example, because this return aid has been abolished? How does the Secretary of State deal with this effect of his policy? I understand that an exit bonus can be a perverse incentive; but guidance can be very useful, can't it? It is best if rejected asylum seekers return voluntarily. If guidance can help, we should not abolish it. Does the Secretary of State share that view? Quite a few North African countries refuse to take their own people back. That's very undesirable. I have a number of questions about this. What is the Secretary of State doing, for example, to negotiate with Morocco and Algeria on the possibility of forced return? What essential steps does he intend to take in his answer to questions from my predecessor, Mr Gesthuizen, of 11 January? How does he look at the proposals from other countries, such as Germany, which are threatening financial measures? There are also countries that manage to expel foreigners to these countries, such as Spain. Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss this with his Spanish colleague? What is the secret of Spain? According to experts, North African countries use rejected foreigners as diplomatic means of exchange. What can the Secretary of State say about that? I don't think that's the idea. For the SP, it is important for the government to do more to be able to return rejected asylum seekers. Only then will we prevent a growing group of strangers from ending up on the streets. That would be an undesirable situation for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u42	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his letter. I have a number of questions about the letter, but also in general. According to estimates by the WODC of 2012-2013, around 35,000 undocumented foreigners reside in the Netherlands. However, these are not recent figures. Can the Secretary of State give an actual estimate of the number of undocumented people in the Netherlands? Those who have no right to asylum in the Netherlands must return. My group agrees with that, albeit with a humane approach and with a view to security in the country of origin. It's about kindness and mercy. Not only because it is social, but also because it is much more effective if personal circumstances are taken into account. Therefore, it is most effective when proceedings are conducted while maintaining facilities to work on their return. Departure or forced expulsion is not self-evident. Many of the victims are forced to disappear into illegality, because countries of origin refuse to cooperate or because it is simply not safe and non-refoulement threatens. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we really need to do two things: make sure that country policy is more in line with the current security situation and make firm agreements with countries that are now refusing to take back proceedings, such as Morocco. Let me give you an example of Afghanistan. This has now been identified as a safe country, but children's rights organisations express great concerns about the position and safety of children in Afghanistan. GroenLinks shares those concerns. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Attention should also be paid to the Ihbti policy on Ukraine. The Gay Pride in Kiev had to be heavily secured. As many as 70% of Ukrainians think negative about homosexuality. Anti-gay violence is growing hand-to-hand. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that special attention is needed for the protection of IBTs? GroenLinks wants concrete agreements with countries of origin on safe return. What is the state of play here and what is the State Secretary doing in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u43	Madam President. Each application for asylum shall be carefully and individually examined. It's part of the rule of law. A rule of law also requires asylum seekers who are rejected to return to their country of origin. A rule of law also requires the government to ensure that this is actually implemented and that this is done. We have a Return and Departure Service, which ensures that rejected asylum seekers actually leave. At least that's what this service is trying to do. In many cases, however, this is a difficult point. To be less politically correct but clear, I quote from the services themselves: "Our asylum services have no idea whether rejected asylum seekers actually leave our country." In itself, this is nothing new. We already know for a long time that there are problems with rejected asylum seekers who are out of the picture. The big question now is: what is the value of this debate? What is the Secretary of State doing about it? The numbers have already been mentioned: last year 8,100 people were out of the picture. Please note: every year we talk about this kind of numbers. So this is cumulative, and you're talking about thousands of illegals. And we have no idea if they're really here illegally or maybe they've already left. With that number of 8,100 people, this amounts to almost half of the number of asylum seekers rejected. The question is, therefore, what does the Secretary of State do to keep an eye on this group of people and on their departure and therefore on the protection of the rule of law in this respect? Asylum seekers still have the right to leave voluntarily. That means they can't be checked when they leave. If they have already left, we do not know which country they are going to: to the country of origin, are they going to be near another European country or are they indeed disappearing into illegality? More than a year ago, the Chamber adopted a motion from Mr Buma and myself. It calls on the government to do what it can to change the European rules on this issue in order to prevent asylum seekers from disappearing illegally. After all, the international agreements in force are not based on the current practice of mass immigration; perhaps I should say: mass migration. At that time, it was literally promised that this "will be taken away in due course," but what has been done in the meantime? Where is Europe's strength in this respect and what action can we hear from the Secretary of State? So what has been put into practice and what is ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Chairman. A well-functioning asylum system also requires a well-functioning return policy. D66 thinks that if you get asylum, you're gonna get into it soon. But if the judge has finally decided that you're not getting a status, you're gonna have to leave soon. That sounds logical and feasible, but the practice is more rigid, as several speakers have already mentioned for me. Some rejected asylum seekers do not want to return; others cannot return, for example because they are afraid or because countries of origin do not want to issue the right papers. My group attaches particular importance to an effective return policy. Many measures have already been proposed in this house with the aim of deporting people, but I would like to look at what really works and not at what sounds cool. I read with interest the letter from the Secretary of State in response to Mr Fritsma's questions. I do have a number of additional questions on this subject. The State Secretary writes that the number of forced departures has increased for the first time since 2012. How does he explain that rise? He also states that people who leave without supervision do not automatically reside in the Netherlands. In doing so, he points to an estimate from 2012/2013 of the number of illegally staying foreigners in the Netherlands. Is it perhaps time to update these figures so that we have a better and more up-to-date picture? In the letter from the Secretary of State, I read that more intensive efforts have been made on foreign detention. Can the Secretary of State state state in what way that happened? How come the departure from custody has increased further? Are other measures being taken or are there other groups, such as Albanians, which are easier to deport? Finally, it strikes me that this cabinet seems to focus mainly on foreign detention in order to encourage return. Is that a picture? Does the Secretary of State see other ways of further encouraging return, for example more contacts with countries of origin, more European diplomatic pressure and personal support for returners? I would like to mention a few examples, but perhaps the Secretary of State has other ideas. Has he ever had an investigation into what actually works best for return? If not, is he willing to map that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u45	I just want to make sure that it is right that D66 agrees that municipalities opt for a bed-bath-bread scheme for people falling between shore and ship. Does your party support those municipalities, unlike other parties, who want to ban it, for example? Am I correct in saying that you are not opposed to municipalities making such provisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u46	In my view, Mrs Keijzer has already explained in detail what the two extremes are in this debate and what the problems are with people who are going to be on the streets. You want them to leave quickly, but you don't want them to get out on the street and possibly cause all kinds of public order problems. You don't want people getting out of the picture and doing other things. It's a complicated discussion that's on the formation table. So I can't say much about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u47	I didn't expect that! In theory, these negotiations can last until the end of the day. Today there is also a policy: current policy, as it is so well called. We await the formation, but does your party currently believe that municipalities can do so? Can municipalities provide for a bed-bath bread scheme? You have a stand-alone position on that. Surely the people have a right to know what your standing position is, regardless of what is decided during the formation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u48	I believe that the position of D66 is well known. I have just indicated that it is wise that people should not go into the streets and possibly cause public order problems or otherwise come into situations that we consider to be unwise. Furthermore, now that there is a formation going on, I think it is very wise to look very carefully at how we proceed with it. I do not think it is wise to change what is going to happen in the future with statements about the current policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr. Chairman. There is no doubt that immigration is the biggest problem of our time. It is not only the biggest problem of our time, but also of future generations; that will be borne by our children and grandchildren. It's not just a political issue either. You can't just go to the left or the right or raise or lower taxes. It is an issue that results in a lasting and structural morphosis of our society. So it's an existential theme. It is not something that falls within the framework of normal politics. It's similar to giving up sovereignty. You lose something you had fundamentally, permanently and sustainably. It's a transformation of society that's going on. What I miss very much in this debate with almost all political players, and at least with the cabinet, is a sense of urgency for this existential matter. I find it very shocking that people do not want to talk about it in those words. We're not just in the middle of a procedure. I hear it said that we have to wait for the formation talks, that we should not push politics too hard and that there is such a thing as international law to which we would be bound. This is about the survival of Dutch society and Dutch culture. The House must experience much more urgency in this. The four motions that we will table in the second term therefore call on the government to give substance to them. I hope that the Chamber will support these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u50	You have one minute's speaking time in the second term. If you would then like to submit four motions...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u51	But I have one minute and thirteen seconds left!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u52	It won't be saved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u53	Unfortunately, that doesn't work that way. I've had that frustration before. I hear Mr Baudet saying that there is no sense of urgency. Well, let's put that next to us. I also hear him say that there is such a thing as international law. Does Mr Baudet deny that we are bound by rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u54	Not rules, but international law is, of course, an extremely controversial concept. You can find anything you want. My own view is that national law is more important and should be higher than international law. In any event, international law is a result of international politics in the absence of an assessor in the last instance, a judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u55	We can have a discussion here about where rules come from; in itself that is a hobby of mine. That starts with a social contract and at some point you get rules. But the fact is that, as a legislative authority, we establish rules with each other and that this is how it is done at European and international level. And whatever you think of those rules, because that's what you can discuss with each other, you've been kept to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u56	You are concerned with the fact that it exists at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u57	If Mr Baudet ignores this, it will be very difficult to find a common ground for dealing with this issue. There's no question that it's urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u58	There is, of course, a distinction between European law and international law. European law exists, even though I am not in favour of it and do not recognise its legitimacy. European law exists because there is a legislative and judicial body, which is last resort to it. International law is much more questionable, at least classical international law. This is simply a matter of agreements between countries which are then allowed to interpret these agreements themselves in the final instance. Then, of course, the dividing line between international politics and law is very thin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u59	This was the first term of the Chamber. The Secretary of State has indicated that he can reply immediately, but before I give him the floor, I will suspend the sitting for about two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u60	We shall continue with the debate. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr. Chairman. Many Members of Parliament have rightly referred to the fact that this aspect of asylum policy, which is the return, is a failure, to put it euphemistically. We do not have the means to guarantee that anyone who is rejected will actually return to the country of origin. This creates the effect that a part of the people, before they are deactivated, disappears from sight. That is a problem, if only because it is not meant to be and because I prefer to know exactly where people are. Well, I never know where people are. Also of the people who left with supervision, I don't know where they are now. We're not gonna keep following them. However, we know that they have left the Netherlands under supervision at some point and went to the country of origin or, with a Dublin claim, to another European Member State. Even then, of course, there is no guarantee that I know exactly where they are after that. The policy is aimed at letting people leave the Netherlands. We use different means for that. The whole dossier is not positive on balance, but there are some positive signals within the dossier. The number of foreigners we have been able to put into custody has increased in 2016. The number of forced departures has also increased. Mr Groothuizen asked about the cause of this. The main cause of all kinds of fluctuations within this file is often the country of origin. Indeed, if I get 1,000 Albanians or 1,000 Moroccans, the same policy will produce totally different scores. Those Albanians are gonna force me back. I don't need an IOM or anything for that. But the people from the safe country Morocco are very difficult to get back, not even with the IOM. I will come back to that in detail later. This is not due to the IOM, but simply to the mindset with which people have come, to their goals and to the opportunities that people see to evade supervision. The effectiveness of departure from storage has also been significantly improved. The demonstrable departure from detention increased to 70% in 2016. Once again, these are points of light within the dossier, because the result on this dossier as a whole would not be a positive one on balance. Mr Fritsma and later Mrs Keijzer have said that the term 'departure without supervision' is a bit complicated. Shouldn't you call this different? I have no objection in principle to this, but I think we have been using this term for years and everyone knows what it means. There's a lot of attention to what this means and what it doesn't mean. Mr Fritsma suggested the term "disappeared" without trace. But disappearing is a bit the same as leaving. Then you don't know where the people have disappeared to. Are they still in the Netherlands or not? I would not like to go into putting energy into another term now, because I do not immediately have a term that covers the load. The problem is that there are people in this category who have left the shelter alone as well as those who have left the shelter and then leave the country. And perhaps there are also people who have left the shelter and returned from the country, but have returned later. They're all in here. So I cannot think of a single new term for this. Mr Fritsma asks why I am not going to deport and secure by default. The policy is aimed at expansion. We'll do what we can to secure it. I believe that the space we have to keep people in custody pending their departure is currently too small in European law. This has to do with the interpretation given by Dutch judges to certain European regulations. That is why I have insisted on this at European level in order to clarify it. If the European Commission says 'your expulsion must be more effective', I agree with the Commission. It is nice that she now recognizes this as an important subject after we insist. But then we must also have the space to secure more people than we are now waiting for them to be evicted, because that will prevent people from disappearing, from squeaking out, and because it will also encourage people to participate in voluntary departure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u62	The Secretary of State explains the policy, but the problem is that the policy does not work. Tens of thousands of rejected asylum seekers have been released into society for the last three years alone. It is not only the EU, it was also a political choice of the Rutte II cabinet to detain foreign detention. The question is simple: why does the cabinet continue to throw out rejected asylum seekers? Why is the Secretary of State continuing to create this security problem? Why is he continuing to pursue non-working illegal immigration policy? Why doesn't he choose to put people away as long as they don't leave? That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u63	I do object to the way Mr Fritsma talks about this category of people. I also prefer that they leave the country immediately; let there be no misunderstanding about that. Mr Fritsma mentioned a number of problem categories. I'm sure there are. There are people who cause crime and pose other security risks, but Mr Fritsma lets this strike back on the whole group, with terms like "let go." When you say "let go," you're talking about a mad dog breaking loose from the line. These people don't let you loose on society. In doing so, he creates an image of insecurity which does not apply to this group to that extent. Apart from that, it irritates me that it is not possible to turn them off. Mr Fritsma's only solution would then be to secure them all. We will if we can, but if a judge orders me to release them, I will abide by our rule of law. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dan niet anders dan die mensen weer uit de cel te laten vertrekken.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u64	I'm really surprised at this. Here is a Secretary of State for Security and Justice who incredibly underestimates the security problems. Hundreds of criminals are among them, which he does unleash on society. There's no other way to put it. Does he know about the raids that take place in Ter Apel, Groningen and Limburg? So he keeps it in place. It's really a security issue. The events in Stockholm and Berlin show what happens if you just let rejected asylum seekers walk, so that they can disappear from sight. How could he underestimate that? Why does he place the importance of these illegals above that of the security of Dutch society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr Fritsma has a great talent for asking why questions and then saying things that don't add up. I can't explain why I do something if I don't, and why something isn't. I am not surprised, but I am disappointed that Mr Fritsma is not having a reasonable and sensible debate on this. I do not deny that there are security problems, both by people who are legally resident here and by people who are staying here illegally. I do not deny that people who have no means of providing for their existence and who should have left the country but who are still here are responsible for crime. Mr Fritsma talks about the North of the Netherlands and Groningen, but I have taken more measures, together with the local authority, to reduce the nuisance there than Mr Fritsma. Don't say we don't take it seriously and don't make it a bigger story than it is. It's awfully annoying that you can't get these people out of here. I'm gonna put them in custody as much as I can, but I'm not gonna get out of the rule of law if the judge says I can't hold someone anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr Fritsma, no repetition of moves. I give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u67	Do I fully understand the Secretary of State that he basically wants to put everyone in jail unless there is a specific ruling from a judge on an individual case and that he only then lets these people wander free again? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u68	That's not exactly how it is. By case law you know in which cases you are guaranteed not to go over to lockdown. If you know it's not allowed, but the counter-empty still does and the judge first lets you say it's not allowed, you take a walk with the rule of law. Of course, it doesn't work that way either. I keep looking at the edges of when it's possible, but if there's no indication, someone has no background and I can't argue anything other than that this person has been tried out and rejected, I'm sure that this fixation won't last long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u69	Does the Secretary of State have the impression that this legal fact depends primarily on national legislation or international agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u70	That's a catch 22 with Europe. I am now focusing on clarifying European legislation because, according to the European regulators, that current regulation in itself is not limited to securing people, but the Dutch court interprets it as being so. If the Dutch court were to interpret it differently, as other Member States interpret the same rules differently, it would be good, but yes, that is more difficult to achieve than to adapt the rules at European level so that the interpretation in the Netherlands will work out well. To make the facts even more difficult, I would add that it is not always the case that someone does not disappear from the picture until he is rejected. There are also a lot of people who just really know they don't have a chance. They come from a safe country and have already gone through a procedure in Germany, for example, and come back here and know: they are going to work on my case and I am being rejected. Therefore, you can see that they are running out of shelter even before they have been rejected and before it has been said, you are going back to another Member State under Dublin. In such a case, you also don't have the neat model of rejection, possibly securing and disconnecting. Mr Fritsma, Mrs Keijzer and Mr Azarkan asked where the 8,000 people are out of the picture. That's a bit of a rhetorical question. If I knew where they were, they wouldn't be out of the picture. So I don't know. I can't rule out the fact that they're in the Netherlands. It is very possible and very likely that a large part of them have left the Netherlands, as we can also see that we have people here at the window who have gone through the same pattern in another country. The people who report here to whom we can apply the Dublin claim because they have already gone through a procedure in another country have also left that country without supervision. So the problem is that I cannot justify how many of them are in the Netherlands or not. That is already very annoying as a fact but also because it allows everyone to give their own coloring to it. Mr Azarkan asked whether the effectiveness of the expulsion has diminished. I don't recognize that image. In general, it has been varying for years around the current percentage of 50. I did not categorically abolish the return aid. We look at it country by country. Return help always helps, in the sense that it always makes people go back, but at some nationalities we saw it attracted more people here than it made people return. You'll have a negative picture on balance. As far as the Balkans are concerned, forced return is quite possible. We work well with the authorities there. So then you don't need that return help either. With regard to Morocco and Algeria, this support was reduced in 2016. There is no longer a full support facility. Until 1 December, 30 people made use of the scheme to return to Morocco and 20 people to return to Algeria. Following the abolition, in December 2016 and the first four months of 2017, 40 persons returned to Algeria and 20 persons to Morocco. So you can't say that the abolition of that facility has had a dramatic effect on the return. Ms Keijzer and Ms Özütok asked whether the persons in bed-bath bread facilities were included in the illegal estimate of 2012-2013. To the extent that they have emerged from the police within the method of catch/recatching, so to speak, that is the case. These figures have been extrapolated to the wider society on the basis of a scientific model. There was, of course, a different situation at the time than with the bed-bath-bath-bath facilities. It's not like we always know who's in such a facility. With some municipalities you have good contact in the context of local return consultations and then the DT&V knows who is there and then the issues are discussed. Cooperation with other municipalities is different and we have no idea how many people are staying there or who they are. I think we had the most effective way to get a look at the numbers when there was a temporary concession in the funding. Then they had to tell us how many people were there. I understand the question of an update. I just can't order it easily. The research area for 2017 is full. It is more appropriate for me to leave to a successor whether it is appropriate in 2018 to have a new estimate, illegal estimation, made by the WODC.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u71	I asked whether the investigation into the number of illegal immigrants in the Netherlands also looked at the residents in the bed-bath bread supply who had not been in contact with the police. That investigation was carried out on the basis of arrests and standing positions. So if you don't get in touch with the police at all, I assume you're not involved. Now I hear the Secretary of State say that in those years the bed-bath bread supply did not yet have the flight she has now, if I understand him correctly. It is then important for the future to see if you can take these people into it. I also asked how many people in the bed-bath bread supply have gone through the so-called 'out-of-debt procedure'. Could the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u72	I don't have any concrete numbers of them. At such a bed-bath-bath supply there is sometimes, as I indicated, a consultation. In each case, the DT&V examines whether there is a title for residence, sometimes on medical grounds, sometimes because one has ever been rejected but the country of origin has become unsafe or sometimes because of the outside debt criterion. However, people are also killed outside the bed-bath-bath-bread scheme. Those are very few people. When people really cooperate on departure, they almost always do. The category really covered by the out-of-debt scheme is really very small. There are a lot of people who say that they really can't go back and for whomever we can't get a laissez-passer, but that often has to do with the degree of cooperation, which is suddenly lacking at the moment when one shows up at the embassy and has to have the conversation. Our experience is really that if people just cooperate in their departure, this will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u73	This is also reflected in an opinion of the Advisory Committee on Refugees. So that's not news to me. I am curious whether the municipalities where the conversation is good, I understand that there is some difference in that. It is possible to see which people in the This to get a little feeling, also very practical, about people's theorem that they can't go back. Has that been tested in such a procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u74	I do not have any figures on this at the moment, other than that we know about this phenomenon that a lot of people do not apply for the procedure because they also know that they can go back if they really cooperate. I can see if we have any information on this, but we certainly do not have any bed-bath bread supplies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u75	Probably a procedural remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u76	No. Can you then tell those who have not applied for procedure that they must go into the procedure to determine whether they really can't go back?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u77	I would prefer to deal with the matter of all those people and choose the most appropriate route, namely to use the return. I don't know if it helps to formally test all those people in an out-of-debt procedure. On the basis of the file, the DT&V often already has all kinds of leads to assume that people can just go back if they cooperate on departure. So I do not know whether it adds anything if we do it formally in such a procedure. Mr Azmani asked about the measures we have taken to reduce unacceptable behaviour and improper asylum applications, particularly in areas, the North of the Netherlands near Ter Apel, where there were problems at the time. We have paid a great deal of attention to the nuisance caused by this category and to the nuisance that we fear could be caused by it. See our approach around old and new, in which with local authority, with mayors and with police, we have had a very targeted approach to identify these people quickly and to be able to intervene quickly. Fortunately, we have not had any problems like those in Cologne a year earlier. I think that shows that we have properly steered the safety side and the safety risks of this group. We have taken an approach where we did not say from here: this is about local authority, figure it out. We've really had a very focused approach. We also see that the nuisance has been reduced there. Unfortunately, it is not entirely gone, but the images and scenarios that have led us to take the measures are not currently being discussed. Even if there were zero people in this category of criminal behavior, it would still be worth something to me if we could proceed to effective expulsion. Mr Van Dijk asked about the countries from which the rejected asylum seekers have disappeared from the picture and whether they are also people from whom he assumes they are entitled to asylum. Most people come from safe countries: 1,290 from Albania, 910 from Morocco and 680 from Iraq. There are also people from countries like Syria: 540. That is very good because they are probably a 'Dublin case' and choose to leave themselves instead of waiting for the return under 'Dublin' to another European Member State. The same is true of the position of the Libyans in Ukraine, to which Mr Van Dijk asked. This, of course, remains a worrying matter in several countries. The IND stays sharp on those keys. Everyone gets an individual review. If circumstances give rise to them, they can be protected in the Netherlands. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the pattern would continue in the first months of this year. Yeah, that pattern's the same. About 6,100 foreigners left, of which about 2,000 returned to the "unsupervised" category. Probably more by now; I think that 2,000 was a snapshot. Let me say in general terms that the pattern we saw repeats itself, including with the people who have now been rejected. Mr Van Dijk asked me about a reflection on a quote that it is not a problem for people to leave without supervision. It's true that I said that. The context was that they would actually leave. I'd rather they really leave the country and find supervision than a second. I did not, of course, mean the people who left the shelter alone, but did not leave the country. That's still a problem. Ms Özütok asked about Afghanistan. This also applies to the individual assessment of each person. Certainly not everyone from Afghanistan will have the right to protection, because not every individual situation makes that necessary. If people, including minors, are not safe in Afghanistan, they can be assessed as beneficiaries of protection in an individual procedure. Mr Grothuizen spoke about other ways than detention to encourage departure, in particular voluntary return. It may be paradoxical, but the key to achieving more voluntary return is an effective effect of forced return. That is why I also attach the same importance to the Court of Justice to make agreements with countries that do not participate in it. I get that countries say... Well, I don't really get that. I understand it now because I have been doing the dossier for so long, but in principle I do not understand that countries do not take their own people back. Then I acknowledge that countries say: I prefer that they return a little worthy. Yeah, that's what I like most. That's not the problem. However, in those countries where forced return simply works well, voluntary return is much more successful. That is why we continue to work with the other countries. Besides, there's a complication. We can easily find that we have to make agreements, but you make agreements with someone else, and the other one thinks something about it. I can wave treaties that require them to do it, but that is not international law in the sense that there is a judge somewhere I can enforce it, and then those people say: sorry, we're going to take everyone back from now on. That's what makes it complicated. Those countries also do not need to talk only about return and say: annoying for you; we will take them all back. It is tied to all kinds of other dossiers, in which we have a weighting, both in the Netherlands and in Europe. I note that the importance of returning to the priority list of both the Netherlands and certainly Europe has increased considerably in recent years. I'm glad to hear that, but we're still a long way from here. The European Union has now for the first time concluded a strong memorandum with Afghanistan, but there are countries, for example in North Africa, with which I prefer to see rapid success. It seems difficult to achieve. I have been asked to speak with my Spanish colleague. I did. When he asked me when I wanted to see effect, and I said "preferably yesterday," he laughed very loudly. I do not know whether the Spanish model is one-on-one useful for us either. The Spaniards invested in the relationship for years before anything came out at all. Even if you want to copy this model, we won't be able to do it soon. The Spanish are also more generous in granting temporary work permits to people from Morocco. Moroccans are allowed to come to Spain to do seasonal work and then have to go back. If they choose to enter Spain illegally, they will never be eligible for such a work visa again. That is one of the pillars of the model. I have the feeling that we in our Parliament are not immediately jumping to copy this model.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u78	Before I give Mr Jasper van Dijk the opportunity to interrupt, I ask you how far you are going with your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u79	I think I've had it all, but I'm just gonna walk through the list and see if I've forgotten anything. Mr Van Dijk asked what I think of the proposals made by Germany. For the cabinet, the crux is that it must be effective. We do not say in advance what is taboo and what we prefer. It has to be effective and you have to look more broadly than just at financial incentives, but those incentives are of course part of it. In any case, it helps if we do it with several countries at the same time. In Europe, it is particularly helpful if we are able to move forward with large countries. It's about power. We shall keep each other informed of our diplomatic efforts and progress so that we can act together towards those countries and be more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u80	This is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u81	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u82	Okay. Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u83	Good. If it succeeds at European level, it will, of course, give us a clear policy from Europe. But if it does not succeed, I can imagine that this Secretary of State or the Minister for Foreign Affairs will come into contact with countries like Morocco and Algeria in order to speak with a strong voice. The Secretary of State himself said that these countries are tying it up with other things. My question is: do you tie it to other things? For example, do you say to those countries: listen to Morocco, if you do not take your people back, we will look very closely at our trade relations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u84	As the Netherlands, we are simply doing our job. If someone from Europe or another Member State has been there, we do not ask: how was it? We are there. What do you call that in beautiful BZ terms? The broad palette of bilateral relations is discussed. Sturdy conversations aren't that difficult, but something effective has to come out. It is still a puzzle to find out exactly what is the best way to achieve effective return. You can always scale down and you shouldn't yell if you don't want to make it happen. That doesn't work so well. Bluffing is not in our nature; in other cultures it is stronger. If you do, you may end up with the situation that you have taken tough measures but still have no return. Everything is on the table, but the final price is more return, especially from my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u85	I'll tell you what! But in the outside world the impression is now that the Netherlands is less successful than, for example, a country like Spain. I can imagine that the Secretary of State has been able to increase the pressure a little bit. Spain has also succeeded in doing so and that he will take that wide pallet very seriously. Perhaps after that he will say: it is simply the end of certain relationships such as Morocco or Algeria that do not take people back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u86	You can come to that. Spain, of course, has a completely different model. It makes a big difference whether you are staying illegally in the Netherlands or illegally in Spain, even though no one is helping you. It's really different here, because we're just another country. As I have already indicated, Spain has chosen to allow many people from these countries to work in Spain under certain conditions. That is the other side of the coin and I have not yet tasted that we very much want to go that way. The talks are ongoing, including with the new government there. I hope that a new cabinet here will continue these talks and eventually reach agreements with those countries where the effectiveness of return is a successful point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u87	I asked the Secretary of State to pay attention to IBT policy with regard to Ukraine. We see an increase in anti-gay violence there. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge the need for special attention on return to the protection of IBTs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u88	The IND checks with each individual whether there is a right to protection, including in the case of lhbti'ers from Ukraine. We are, of course, keeping a close eye on the situation there. Sometimes there are more positive signals and then things go the wrong way again. So we are paying attention to the Ukrainian situation and we are individually assessing whether anyone has the right to protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u89	I would ask the Secretary of State to take a very critical look at his illegal policy. Does he recognise that this has completely failed with the result that people simply cannot get away? Criminality illegality: immediately off the table under pressure of the PvdA. Again, I'm sorry. In 32 municipalities there is illegal shelter and the Secretary of State does not oppose it. Does he recognize that this is simply one of the causes of the present misery?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u90	I note that good progress has been made in many areas of my responsibility and less than I would have liked in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u91	Less than you'd want. With all due respect, that is a result of your own mischief. You yourself are talking about the point that you must abide by court rulings. Okay, but you do accept that rejected asylum seekers do not. They need to get away from the judge, but you say, here's another general's pardon, here's bed-bath-bread. You don't punish illegality, you reward it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u92	I didn't apologize to a general. So Mr Fritsma is somewhat confused about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u93	The children's pardon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u94	...with a predecessor of mine, with whom I believe the physical similarities were limited. Anyway... Once again, I would have liked to make more progress in this area than I could have done. I have also tried, in the field of bed-bath bread, to create a system of return more than now. It was not possible to reach an agreement on this because there would continue to be a parallel system of reception that would undermine that again. You are responsible for it: what did succeed is up to me and what did not succeed is up to me. That's what you do when you take responsibility. I have repeatedly indicated that this should not become one of my memoirs if I wanted to paint a positive picture of myself. But I also can't see what things I should have done that would have made it much more effective very quickly. That's a little bit of what you're bumping into. So it didn't get any better than it was, not much better; unfortunately it didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u95	In addition to what Mr Van Dijk said, the Secretary of State indicates that there are all kinds of things he would like but he would not get done, and that it would be bluff. But we are not really at risk of getting into some sort of sexist discussion, are we, the underlying party, in the relationship with Morocco, for example? That's where a lot of money goes, we give landing rights to countries like that, development aid, child support, you name it all. A country like Morocco is at least as dependent on us as we are on that country. We're not the underlying party, we can just decide things, right? What's stopping the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u96	I don't think anything is stopping me, I don't feel obstructed either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u97	But then it's not a bluff at all, is it? There's no bluffing, is there? Then it is simply indicated: "if... then." If you don't change that, this and this and all this are gonna happen. And then something's gonna change in Rabat, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u98	Look, in such a negotiation of parties that depend on each other and are in a entanglement, sometimes one is above and then the other. That's what you do with a struggle. There are different parts for that. Of course, you can say, "I'll come in and I'll put down a dictation." It's possible. Then you're gonna have to do it afterwards, and then you're gonna have to start talking again. You can also try to say in a dialogue: we understand each other, we can both hurt each other, or we can come out in a good way that pleases us both.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u99	Last point, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u100	In what area exactly do we depend on Morocco?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u101	So in the field of the withdrawal of outlawed Moroccans who are not entitled to protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u103	In that area. Otherwise, we don't have to talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u104	Thank you. Let's move on to the second term. As I said, speaking time is one third of that in the first term, one minute including tabling motions. I give the floor to Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u105	Mr. Chairman. Then I shall begin quickly by tabling three motions, of which the dictata speak for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close the Dutch borders for all asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2317]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u106	It goes without saying that the problems start with this. My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to no longer release rejected asylum seekers or illegal aliens in our society, but instead to apply the system of "deport or detain" in all cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2318]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u107	My last motion, a little less important but in principle, reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to consider rejected asylum seekers who are unknown where they are and whether they have left the Netherlands as having left, but who have disappeared without a trace,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2319]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u108	The point is that this is now included in the departure figures, and that is misleading.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u109	Good in time! Mr Azarkan, Mrs Keijzer and Mr Azmani do not use their second term. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u110	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas everyone, with or without a right of residence, has human rights to be respected;]] [[Whereas it would benefit society as a whole if there were no (sick) people wandering the streets;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the bed-bath bread regime and not to prohibit municipalities from using it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2320]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u111	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a number of safe countries, such as Morocco and Algeria, refuse to take back rejected asylum seekers;]] [[noting that other European Member States are successful in sending people back to these countries;]] [[considers it important to allow forced return to safe countries for a comprehensive immigration policy;]] [[calls on the Government to step up its commitment to binding agreements with safe countries on forced return of rejected asylum seekers and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2321]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u112	Mr Grothuizen does not need a second term. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet. Apparently, he's got four motions. No, it's five! We're all ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u113	Mr. Chairman. It's time we changed something. It is time to take an example of Gandalf, who says: you will not pass! That's our policy. The Chamber, heard the debate, calls on the Government to do everything within its capabilities in the shortest possible time, including the imposition of financial and diplomatic sanctions, the cessation of development aid, the suspension of family allowances and the withdrawal of landing rights, in order to force these countries to admit. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 2322 (19637).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u114	Yes, it was absolutely my intention, Madam President, but I have so little time. This first motion, of course, refers to those countries which some citizens do not want to be forced to accept. My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that illegality is not currently punishable;]] [[Whereas illegality must be combated;]] [[Whereas asylum seekers commit identity fraud on a large scale or otherwise abuse the asylum procedure;]] [[calls on the Government, the trial and punishment of fraudulent asylum seekers to be declared a priority of the Public Prosecutor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large proportion of the asylum seekers who have been processed have disappeared into illegality;]] [[calls on the Government to place asylum seekers who have been processed in a preventive manner in detention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large proportion of the asylum seekers who have been processed have disappeared into illegality;]] [[whereas tens of thousands of illegal immigrants are staying in the Netherlands and the background of these people is unclear;]] [[Whereas they may pose a danger to society;]] [[calls on the Government to criminalise illegal residence in the Netherlands and to establish an active investigation policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that dozens of municipalities facilitate the stay of illegal immigrants in the Netherlands, including through bed-bath bread schemes;]] [[Whereas previous attempts to change local authorities' policies have been unsuccessful;]] [[calls on the government to reduce the level of benefits paid by municipalities which frustrate national expulsion policies and, in the event of repeated violations, to increase this reduction;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2323]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2324]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2325]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2326]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u115	I see the Secretary of State has all the motions. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr. Chairman. The first motion by Mr Fritsma, on item No. 2317, I advise. It's not the first time. Our commitment is to do more in the region and less in the Netherlands, certainly less than in 2015. But it goes too far to close the border for any asylum seeker seeking protection. The second motion by Mr Fritsma, in part No. 2318, I also advise against it. As I indicated in the debate, there are legal restrictions in our rule of law, which I want to honour. Mr Fritsma's third motion, No. 2319, I also advise against it. I already explained in my first term about changing that term. I do not think that this is the priority and does not help the term "snapshots" either. The Van Dijk motion in part No. 2320 I also advise against, because we are now working on a legal ban on having such a bed-bath bread scheme. I don't want to stop that work. The Van Dijk motion in part No. In any case, 2321 seems to me to be a little too definite in the recitals. This motion gives the impression that other European Member States, in the plural, manage to send people back to the countries mentioned. Spain succeeds, by accepting many more. I do not want to give the impression that the Netherlands is lagging behind other European Member States. Germany also sends people back to those countries, but in numbers of which you can say: then the Netherlands is already included. It's not that it never happens. In that I find the motion too firm. In the operative part, Mr Van Dijk asked for binding agreements. I don't care what these agreements are called, if countries follow them. If I have a binding agreement, there's still no place I can force it. I think Mr Van Dijk is quite right about that. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u117	A brief question, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u118	I will amend the second recital. Then it becomes "confirming that Spain does manage to send people to these countries."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u119	Then the operative part continues to demand binding agreements. Maybe I'm very busy right now, but I wouldn't know how to make binding agreements technically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u120	What would the Secretary of State's opinion be if the word "binding" were deleted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u121	Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I know it may sound silly, but I'm a lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u122	Well, let's go. I was gonna change the motion anyway, so I'm gonna change it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u123	Then we come to the motion in part No. 2322.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u124	Yes, Mr Baudet's first motion. I wouldn't recommend it. Mr Baudet says: first empty your warehouse and then go talk. I believe that bilateral diplomatic consultations are a more effective way of reaching agreements. That is certainly where these matters come in. In the end, I'd rather have an appointment than a deterioration of the situation when there's still no return. The motion in part No. 2323 on the prioritisation of the D.A.'s office, I must also advise against it. People who commit fraud in the asylum procedure are being fished out by the IND. Then the permit is denied. I think that's the right way to go. I think the D.A. has other cases to attend to. I wouldn't want to make everything a priority, apart from the fact that I'm not about that. The motion in part No. 2324 is very similar to Mr Fritsma's motion. I would also advise against this motion. I cannot put all the asylum seekers who have been processed in a preventive manner in detention without having additional circumstances or reasons for doing so. That wouldn't last in court. The motion in part No. 2325 calls for the criminalisation of illegality. The cabinet doesn't like that. Nor does it seem to me that such a decision can be made by a outgoing cabinet at this stage of the formation. So I'm going to advise against this motion, too. The motion in part No. 2326 asks me to do something about bed-bath bread arrangements in a very specific way. I would therefore advise against the motion, because with this motion Mr Baudet chooses the Community Fund as an instrument, while we are now working on another method of criminalising and enforcing it. I'd like to continue that line. I think I dealt with the motions. I would just like to say to Mr Baudet that, after Gandalf's fine statement, he did not end well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-4.u125	We have come to the end of this debate. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
