ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue the debate on tax avoidance. The Secretary of State, like the spokesmen, had lunch. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Grashoff of the Green Left Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. It will only happen to you: in one breath are called with Bermuda and the Cayman Islands. Not because of the pleasant, sunny climate, but because of the favourable tax environment for international tax avoidance. That happened to the Netherlands last week when Oxfam issued his report. Did that come as a total surprise? No, Mr. Chairman. We must be ashamed that we are on top of the wrong lists in this respect. We know a whole sector in this country that is about helping companies and wealthy individuals to pay as little tax as possible. A sector aimed at playing countries against each other. We call that sector: the trust sector. Trust is English for trust. With me it has something of the Ministry of Truth from George Orwell's 1984 book. Do you remember that? Thanks to this trust sector, in combination with our ruling practice, the generous interest deduction and the participation exemption, we have around 20,000 empty e.g. in the Netherlands, which, according to the Economic Research Foundation, is estimated to flow around 4,000 billion euros a year through the Netherlands, with one main goal: to pay as little tax as possible somewhere in the world. As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, these companies are leaving our country immediately. This is at the heart of the problem. This is why the Netherlands has that bad reputation internationally. This is why we are on top of the wrong lists of tax havens. I have previously tabled a motion to tackle empty flow-through-e.g. on the basis of the options that the Secretary of State has neatly outlined, but he hasn't made it. I'm going to retable that motion. I have the hope and the confidence that this time we can take action. With or without a trust sector, multinationals like IKEA, Starbucks, Apple, BASF and ZARA all use the Netherlands to set up a structure. The Netherlands provides in advance certainty as to the effectiveness of those structures by the ruling practice. Rulings are secret tax deals with companies. It's an out of control practice. We miss deadlines for the exchange due to the large number of rulings. According to the SOMO report, it is only increasing further. Pre-security is not the problem; I think that's good. However, the forest of uncontrollable secret tax arrangements is because they contain information that is sensitive to competition. That's why they're classified. That's what the Secretary of State said earlier. Of course, if you have an advantageous deal with the tax inspector, for example on transfer pricing, then you have an advantage over your competitor. However, that is false competition. That's an uneven playing field. Therefore, rulings in our view should be public. Is the Secretary of State prepared to say that from now on all these rulings will be made public, as agreed in the EU Code of Conduct? By the way, the European Commission has targeted the Netherlands because of one of those rulings, namely Starbucks. Meanwhile, the money we had to collect has been collected and we are using the transfer pricing model of the European Commission. Fine. But then the appeal can also be withdrawn. That's pointless, isn't it? It only confirms the image that the Netherlands is unwilling to end wrong practices. We shouldn't want that. Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! Stop it! When it comes to tackling tax avoidance at its core, this Secretary of State often escapes. He does so in an almost inimitable way, as if he were the renowned handcuff king Houdini. Today he tries again, with a sublime distraction in the form of a thick letter on tax evasion on the eve of the debate on tax avoidance. About what's in that letter, I say, do it, right away, as soon as possible. However, he is once again avoiding the core of the debate on tax avoidance and the role played by the Netherlands. As far as I'm concerned, he won't get away with it today. Who gets the nomination for the untrustworthy prize? Is that this Secretary of State or Holland Quaestor, the trust-sector interest club? No, it's none other than all of us finance minister Jeroen Dijsselboom. I quote from the jury report that says: This minister really looks forward to being a chameleon of colour as the situation demands. From bright red when he has to bring back the lost left-wing voter in the daily newspaper to deep blue when in Brussels, in spite of a chamber motion, he once again pleads for a postponement of the mismatch measure. It ends in a kaleidoscopic shade of colour when he talks it all back together here in the Chamber. Unfortunately, he could not attend today, but I congratulate him most warmly. We'll talk to him later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. We are indeed talking today about tax avoidance. Oxfam recently published a report showing that the Netherlands has three largest tax havens worldwide. It is not the first report that puts the finger on the sore spot of the Netherlands as a tax haven, not for the ordinary man, but for multinationals. How many examples are there of companies that do not tax via the Netherlands? Is it true that the money flows that go through the Netherlands can account for much greater than the size of our economy? Moreover, due to the absence of withholding taxes, these flows are not taxed. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what his reaction is to Oxfam's report and what he thinks of that third place. Regular reports on companies such as Google, Apple, Starbucks and IKEA appear to be very successful in paying hardly any tax via tax routes made possible by the Netherlands. When we ask questions about the agreements these multinationals make with the Tax Administration, the Secretary of State always says: they are secret. Why? It's all about explaining how the law should be interpreted, isn't it? Can't the people in this country be part of that? In the second term, therefore, I will make a proposal for greater openness on the arrangements made by the Tax Administration with multinationals. The public has a right to that. Look at our neighbour Belgium, which goes on. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? After all, he says he's so open to openness. Shortly ago, I read an opinion article by Kameleon Minister Dijsselbloem of Finance that was taken from my heart. The article is called "Stop tax incentives for large companies." I think that's a good idea. Unfortunately, the Minister is not here today, because I would have liked to ask him a few explanations. Fortunately, the cabinet speaks with a mouth. Can the Secretary of State explain what the Minister means by "tax lures"? Is this not exactly why the European Commission is criticising the Netherlands? In our country, there were no less than seventeen tax lures, more than in any European Member State. Does the Secretary of State address that criticism and what is he going to do about it? Does he also support Minister Dijsselbloem's sudden plea to increase the tax burden on large companies? Is it possible, in his view, to achieve this before 15 March, if the Chamber asked for it to do so? For a long time there has been a large tax avoidance route through the Netherlands that American companies in particular use. Then I am talking about the CV/e.g. structures in our country, so that tens of billions can be untaxed. Fortunately, the European Commission has now finally put forward a concrete proposal to put an end to these hybrid structures, which create a double exemption. But what did Minister Dijsselbloem and Secretary of State Wiebes say? We want to postpone until 2024. A motion for a resolution was then adopted in order not to argue in favour of this postponement. And what are the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State doing all over again? Deferral questions! They say, yes, but we didn't mention a date. We're not crazy, are we? In all the documents, it had already been stated that the Netherlands advocated a postponement until 2024. This also appeared after the Ecofin meeting in the newspapers, not only in the Netherlands: The Netherlands wants to postpone until 2024. Why does the Secretary of State want companies to benefit from a double exemption for another seven years? What is the Court's ruling on this really worth to him? I would also like to refer to another motion that I tabled with Mr Groot. In this motion, the Chamber asks the government to make an effort at a minimum rate as a blacklist criterion. Hefty countries do not have a tax, or a lower rate, then they will be on the black list of tax havens. Moreover, I understood from the De Kwis programme that Minister Hennis-Plasschaert has already said yes to that, although I am not sure if she knew what she said yes to. My question is: how did the Secretary of State make such an effort with his European colleagues? I can't find anything about that in the media. Are there any pieces to be found? In what way did the Secretary of State convince his European colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u4	Those are all beautiful, roaring lyrics. Mr Merkies refers to a motion that would have been adopted on the hybrid mismatches. I believe, however, that a motion has also been adopted on the hybrid mismatches of third countries in which it says that we do not want it at all and that we are going to draw a yellow card. How does Mr Merkies see that in relation to the argument he is making now? The majority of the House of Representatives can make a similar argument about that other motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u5	A majority of the House has passed a motion. It says: we do not want this to be postponed. It's a delay until 2024. Let us not forget that the Netherlands is the only country in Europe to argue in favour of this. The Netherlands really is a very strange figure if we let this go on like this. I do understand that the VVD has proposed this, by the way, on the advice of the lobby organization AmCham. That is exactly what was proposed for five years, until 2024. Let's face it, we really have enough time to get this going by 2019, which was originally proposed. Then there's plenty of time. Otherwise, for seven years, we will be creating a major tax leak, which will allow companies to get rid of billions of dollars of untaxed money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u6	I will explain in my own speech that it is all against jobs what the SP does with this proposal. But Mr Merkies does not go into my question at all. A majority of the House of Representatives also adopted a motion which states that we do not want that proposal of hybrid mismatches with third countries at all. A yellow card has been drawn. The request has been made. So a majority of the House of Representatives doesn't want that proposal at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u7	I'm sorry, but what Mrs De Vries is saying right now just doesn't add up. A majority is in favour of this yellow card when it comes to the ATAP proposal concerning the CCCTB and the CCCTB. But a majority of the Chamber is also in favour of tackling hybrid mismatches. I think that is right, because we are talking about a major tax avoidance route. This really is a question of double exemption. One does not pay in America and one does not pay in the Netherlands. I honestly don't understand why the VVD wants to maintain that route. I find that really incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. Tax avoidance is a serious offense. Anyone who tries to get out of his tax liability, lets others pay the bill. Others have to pay for schools, hospitals, care institutions and roads that we all want. During the Dutch Presidency of the European Union, we have seen that the government is able to make a very important pact. After long negotiations, all Member States have agreed to the anti-tax avoidance directive. Now that that directive needs to be implemented and there is a need to exchange tax rules at OECD level, the Dutch Government is not in a position to exchange the rulings. This is one of the most important measures agreed. If tax authorities know from each other what agreements are made with an individual company, they can see if no constructions are used to avoid tax on both sides. The Secretary of State assured us that this exchange would all work out fine and that there was sufficient manpower available at the Tax Office. In the last report he wrote that there was some delay in the exchange and that a delay should be requested. We asked how many were exchanged and what turned out? Of the estimated 2000 rulings to be exchanged, only 303 were exchanged: 15%. That's not a little delay. The Dutch government has just begun! Why is the Secretary of State so behind on the exchange of information? And perhaps even more important is the question of why other countries exchange so few rulings. Belgium and Luxembourg issue more rulings than the Netherlands. However, the Secretary of State writes that these countries will exchange less than 200 rulings per country and the Netherlands the tenfold. What's the explanation of that? Secondly, we have long called for a central register of rulings. That is easy to exchange, but that is also good for the equality of law. Then a tax inspector issuing a ruling can see how a comparable tax inspector on the other side of the country will make it. Has it come now? Thirdly, is the Netherlands going to meet the OECD's new deadline and how are we going to do that? Fourthly, has the Secretary of State given proper thought, not to the full disclosure that my colleagues wanted, but to the way in which he wants to inform Parliament about the content of the rulings and how to control what a ruling looks like? Now that the Secretary of State sends the rulings to Romania, South Korea, Cyprus, Mexico, mention all EU and OECD countries, it remains odd that the tax officials in those countries can see what the rulings look like, but that the House of Representatives cannot check what has been agreed? Perhaps the most important question is the following. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether, now that there is such a delay, he has encountered strange cases at the rulings that need to be exchanged. Is there, for example, a ruling that is not within the lines of the law? Is there sufficient unity of policy? There's not even a central register where all those rulings have been put together so you can see if they match a bit. And are the original rulings exchanged? This is a very serious question? Or are rulings still being adjusted before they are exchanged with other countries? If the latter happens, in how many cases does it happen and why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u9	I now give the floor to Mrs Schouten of the Christian Union. Whoa, whoa. I still see Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u10	It was so incredibly fast, but I had another question for Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u11	You're gonna have to run a little faster from now on. Mr Omtzigt is going to answer your question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u12	Excuse me. The story ended faster than I expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u13	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u14	I said, "Finally," you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u15	No, it's me. That's absolutely true. Mr Omtzigt also stated himself in an AO on tax avoidance issues, inter alia, following the letter from the Secretary of State on substance requirements: if a trust office that has a lot of mailbox companies in its house has to justify a decent wage bill for each letterbox separately, it goes on the beet bridge. We were very much in agreement on that. That is one of the main points that we asked for in the motion I tabled together with Mr Groot on that point. That motion was ultimately not supported by the CDA. Was that a mistake? Or is there something else behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr Grashoff asks me about the literal text of the motion. I will take the motion up in a moment, and I will answer the question of the difference in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u17	That's very nice. Let's do that. I would like to announce that I will, in all probability, retable that motion. I would like to see whether we can come out in one way or another with regard to the precise wording and the like. It would be a shame if this weren't continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u18	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Schouten, who speaks on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. Since 1990, gross domestic product per capita has increased by 30%, while household income has increased by only 7% in those years. The question is, of course, where the difference has gone. Mr President, you know, as a former spokesman for taxation. The Secretary of State knows. We all know. This has ended up with the companies, and not least with the Apples and Microsofts of this world. Apple alone had 150 billion in cash in the balance sheet by the end of 2013. It would be nice if that money were invested in the real economy, but no! Hoarding seems to be the motto for these kinds of companies, who have so much money in their pockets that they don't know what to do with it anymore. The pinnacle of poor business policy is the purchase of own shares. That's something that doesn't make anyone any better, except the shareholder and the managers. It would be nice if all these multinationals saw it as an honor and pleasure to pay off their fair share in the countries where they make their money, but unfortunately. With smart constructions, multinational companies are pushing profits from one country to another with the aim of reducing profits where the tax on profits is relatively high. Infamous items are the transfer pricing in respect of patents and the so-called management fees. More than is currently the case, where the service is produced and where it is provided, profits must be allocated and income tax paid. If something undermines tax morality and if something is outright unjust, it is that big and wealthy players use the world as a playground, avoid taxes in countries and do not contribute their fair share to the societies in which they earn their money. In short: it is time to bend the proportions straight. That awareness became even clearer when all the coverage of the Panama Papers came out. I read the letter sent by the Secretary of State on that occasion. I congratulate the cabinet on the continued closure of the network around tax advisors and taxpayers involved in anti-fraud structures. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, who has expressed his commitment to this. I realise that effective tax avoidance must be combated at international level, but our country can do more than the cabinet is proposing. I'm not alone in that. Last Saturday, our minister gave an interview in the Belgian newspaper De Tijd. In this he indicates that the Netherlands has facilitated for a long time the kind of structures in which taxes can be avoided. The Minister himself says we have to get rid of that. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to the Minister's comment. What could we do? We could take fundamental measures in corporate taxation; that is also what the Minister states. Why, for example, should we keep the effective rate in the innovation box at 5%? Another example is the implementation of fiscally balanced treatment of equity and debt. Now the difference in tax treatment is large. Foreign equity is greatly favoured and, above all, large companies benefit from it. That leads to guilt. Through further interest relief limitation on the one hand and the introduction of an own capital deduction on the other hand, we show that we have learned from the debt crisis. What does the Secretary of State think of such a proposal? We can also make a profit in the field of information on rulings, on the tax arrangements made by the Tax Administration with large companies. I agree with Mr Omtzigt's argument, among others, that we should be able to understand such rulings and also whether they are being applied correctly. Finally, I have a question about the exchange of rulings. The Secretary of State has recently indicated that he is unable to honour the agreement that the rulings will be exchanged internationally. If we are so busy taking the right steps in preventing tax avoidance, can we not do something about this? Does this have anything to do with the staff who are all leaving the IRS now? What is possible and how quickly can the Secretary of State keep the promise that these rulings will simply be exchanged?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. Today it is one of the last times this cabinet period that we are talking about the issue of tax avoidance. We've talked about that a lot. It is also right that this issue has been high on the agenda this whole period. It cannot be explained to ordinary workers and to small entrepreneurs that they are paying for the cost of all our facilities while large companies and wealthy individuals are able to get the dance, with the help of expensive tax advisers. When I look over the last few years, my conclusion is that we have done a lot about tax avoidance, but we also have a lot to do. We've done a lot of things. I'd like to mention a few things about that. We have closed the so-called Belgium route. For decades, directors and major shareholders have been able to take away tax-free profits from them abroad. That route is closed. Income: structural 65 million. We've tackled the excesses of private equity. These are parties that make aggressive takeovers and fill their acquisition targets with debt, at the expense of the treasury and often at the expense of employees. Income: structurally more than 150 million. We are in the process of revising the treaties with developing countries. We have taken a modest step without giving any more certainty to letterbox companies. We're taking the tax flight through isolated private assets. The same applies to investment e.g. investments. Finally, for the first time under the Dutch Presidency, drastic measures have been taken against international tax avoidance, ATAP 1 and later ACTAP 2. So we've done a lot, but we still have a lot to do. As Mr Grashoff said, the Netherlands is still high on Oxfam's list of countries that facilitate tax avoidance. We are also still dealing with around 20,000 letterbox companies that do little more in the Netherlands than siphon capital at the expense of other countries' tax revenues, including developing countries. We need to get rid of those empty mailbox companies. I therefore wholeheartedly support the fact that Mr Grashoff is about to retable the motion on substance requirements drawn up in response to a letter we asked for together. Last time that motion didn't make it. I would like to ask not only the CDA, but also D66, who often makes the difference in this type of vote, to support this motion this time. That's when we're gonna make real meters. Another point is about aggressive tax structures. Thank you for the good letter from last Tuesday in response to the Panama papers. They are not just about tax evasion, they are also partly about tax avoidance. The first part states that Europe is in the process of obliging tax advisers to disclose tax evasion. Then the Secretary of State writes: we await those proposals. A Labour Party considers that to be a far too passive attitude. Can the Secretary of State at least say here that the Netherlands is embracing the European Commission's proposals for the disclosure of these aggressive tax structures? What is the problem with the Netherlands taking up this disclosure itself, in anticipation of the European Commission's proposals? I have a few questions about the Dutch ruling policy, which are largely in line with Mr Omtzigt's questions. The Secretary of State constantly claims that there is nothing wrong with the Dutch ruling policy, but how can he be sure if he does not even have an overview of the rulings that have been concluded? 13,000 files are currently being examined. Can the Secretary of State assure the Chamber that no rulings have been found so far that cannot be accepted and which do not comply with the law? If, after all, they are found, I do not rule that out on the basis of signals from practice, will the Chamber be informed of this? The Netherlands has experienced significant delays in the mandatory international exchange of rulings. The Secretary of State wants to catch up with those delays by using additional capacity. Can the Secretary of State make this more concrete? How many people are involved in this and when will this additional capacity be deployed? And when will the backlogs have run down? Finally, I have a question about the Starbucks case. There's an appeal pending. The Netherlands has appealed. Tax lawyers tell me that the Netherlands will have to take into account that it will lose that case. My question to the Secretary of State is what consequences that would have for the Dutch ruling policy and whether the Ministry is already preparing for the loss of that trial and the consequences that should be drawn from it for the Dutch ruling policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr Grashoff had put in a sprint very timely. So he can ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u22	Yes, the learning curve is incredibly large. Mr Groot asked a number of questions about the ruling practice. He did not say much about the desirability or undesirableness of disclosure of rulings. I would like to ask him whether he shares my reasoning that a ruling by its nature should be such as to fully guarantee the level playing field and should therefore be public. If you make such an appointment with one company, it should be public, because all other companies should be able to reach agreements on the same criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u23	I have absolutely no objections in principle to the disclosure of rulings. It seems to me that it is very difficult to implement this in practice, because you will then have to get rid of business-confidential information. It is often very specific. That seems very real to me. Besides, where do you draw the line? If the baker makes an appointment with the Tax Administration around the corner, that is also a ruling. I think it is particularly important to exchange the rulings; there is still a great deal to catch up on. Following on from Mr Omtzigt, I also believe that the Court could be better informed about the main form of rulings and about the types of companies to which they apply, so as to increase transparency in this respect. Again, I am not against full disclosure, but there seem to be quite a lot of practical objections to that. I would therefore like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State on this point first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u24	There are undoubtedly practical things that need to be explored, but of course it is a question of whether disclosure would be desirable. There's been a lot of discussion about the ruling practice. That discussion keeps coming back, because there is always at least the appearance that things are not right. Publicity is a very strong weapon in this respect, which could incredibly contribute to the definitive resolution of this issue. In my opinion, we could also make a distinction rather easily, so that the baker around the corner with an agreement about €100 to €1,000 does not have to make something public but a large company as a legal entity does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u25	Once again, in principle, I agree with Mr Grashoff, because in principle I am in favour of disclosure and maximum transparency. This also applies to country-by-country reporting, worldwide. My hesitation lies only in practical feasibility, especially in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u26	I just referred in my own contribution to an interview with the Minister of Finance in which he indicated that the Netherlands facilitates many constructions and that we must get rid of them. Those structures are of course also there because we in the Vpb give all kinds of possibilities to reduce the profit. We often refer to ground-breakers here. The Minister of Finance also said that his party considers it important that this be addressed. Well, the party is here, in Mr. Groot's person. I have two questions. Does Mr Groot agree with me that we really need to consider whether we can remove the ground-breakers and broaden the corporate tax base? And does he agree with me that, with the possible proceeds, or with some of them, for example, we can make the different tax treatment between foreign and own funds more equal? The PvdA has tabled a motion on this matter. In my opinion, this is something the PvdA considers desirable on both sides. Does Mr Groot agree with me that we should now ask for action on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u27	As far as I am concerned, the answer is yes in both cases. The disadvantage of equity against debt is also a thorn in our eye. We have also put forward proposals on this in the past. And we would like to see as much as possible broadening of the basis. As far as we are concerned, this could include, for example, the innovation box. There are plenty of arrangements to be put in place to demolish many base narrowers from the Vpb. This would also simplify corporate taxation. I think there is also a common interest there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u28	I would like to thank Mr Groot for his positive answer. I would like to table a motion on this point. I will see if I can take Mr Groot with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u29	I look forward to seeing them with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u30	I hear Mr Groot say that it is a good thing that we have drawn a great deal of attention to this in the last four and a half years. I have to say, however, that it has been very difficult in the first few years to pass debates on this issue. You do not want to know how many times I and my colleague from GroenLinks have tried to plan debates here, which were blocked by the PvdA. I am surprised that Mr Groot does not accept the possibility of seven years' delay, until 2024, as requested by the Netherlands. This is an important tax route on which Mr Groot rightly made himself angry with me last time. Now we have received answers, just before this consultation, and the Secretary of State and the Minister still say that they are not going to set a date. That's very strange, isn't it? I am surprised that Mr Groot has not gone into that. Is that because he ran out of speaking time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u31	I also saw that letter just before the debate. I'm looking at something else. I count my blessings at this point. The initial Dutch commitment was to postpone the approach of the so-called CV/e.g. structures with which US multinationals come out of their tax liability until 2024. That was the original Dutch effort. As is well known, we found it unacceptable. I understand that the Dutch position has now changed, that there is no longer a date, that the willingness to compromise has been expressed, that this is continued on the European agenda, that the Netherlands' request of 2024 is off the table and that the Netherlands considers an earlier date to be negotiable. I think that's a win.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u32	Then Mr Groot will go along with the story with which we are being fooled. I can show Mr Groot several newspapers, Dutch and foreign, the next day, which said: The Netherlands wants to postpone until 2024. That is not surprising, because it was stated in all the documents preceding this: the Netherlands wants to postpone until 2024. Then the Secretary of State and the Minister say nothing. Then people don't think: okay, then we're just going to introduce it by 2019. They just think, "They don't say anything." Why doesn't Mr Groot just want to know when it is? Otherwise, it will be 2023 and multinationals will still be able to benefit from this double exemption for six years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u33	The Labour Party will continue to insist that these CV/e.g. constructions cease as soon as possible. Other European countries are not crazy either. They first saw the Dutch commitment to delay until 2024. They now see that this demand is not repeated in a European context. In fact, they see that our Finance Minister has said that compromises are possible, that there may be a need for some delay, but that an earlier introduction is ahead of us. Again, the Labour Party will continue to insist that these CV/e.g. structures be terminated earlier today than the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u34	I'm gonna go through with this. I am very fond of Mr Groot on this subject. He must have noticed that the minister is making a weird move, right? First, there was talk of a seven-year delay. The Chamber has made it very clear that it is not in favour of substantial postponement. What are you talking about? Six months, maybe for practical reasons? Then the Minister deliberately chooses no date and then it is said that compromises are possible. Surely that cannot be interpreted differently than simply holding on to preferably seven years, but that, because the Chamber requests it, half is satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u35	If the demand is 2024 and the Netherlands drops that demand, and then the willingness to compromise is expressed, then I conclude that the much earlier end of those CV/e.g. structures has been brought a lot closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u36	I think that is an extremely optimistic explanation. I cannot take this explanation from the factual state of affairs, including the letter we have received on this subject, in which nothing is said on this point. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State about this later, but if there is no clear commitment to a minimum delay, that was the ruling of the Chamber, I did not opt for a postponement, but the Chamber has so expressed itself, will we add a joint statement from the Chamber to frame it a little further?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u37	If I could. I note that all European countries want to get rid of these structures. The Dutch demand of delay until 2024 hung above the market. That demand is off the table and I have every confidence that these CV/e.g. structures will see the end of the forthcoming European decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr. Chairman. Of course, no one can explain or understand that 0.05% or even 0.005% tax is paid as is said about Apple. Exactly what's going on, what's going on and what's not right and whether the rules have been broken must be proved in court. According to the VVD, tax fraud and tax evasion need to be tackled hard. It should not be possible for you to pay taxes anywhere or to pay taxes only where you do not carry out real activities. No one likes paying taxes, but everyone knows that the money is needed to take care of business properly in our country. Both individuals and companies do tax planning. For example, individuals do this by putting the mortgage interest deduction in their tax return. A substantial package of measures has now been taken for companies to combat non-payment of taxes. What are we all doing? There is a considerable European package called ATAD, which is based on OECD measures against tax avoidance, including the limitation of the deductibility of interest. I would also mention the exchange of tax rotations between tax administrations, country-by-country reporting between tax administrations, anti-abuse provisions in tax treaties with developing countries, a UBO register, a multilateral instrument for adapting tax treaties with anti-abuse provisions, and measures against tax evasion and black savers, including the abolition of the return regime. In addition, trust legislation will be amended. These are all measures aimed at combating non-payment of taxes. Following on from a number of colleagues, I am curious to see how the important element of the exchange of rulings can be accelerated. How can the Secretary of State do this even faster than is currently planned? The SP Group has just mentioned the Oxfam Novib report. The Netherlands would be in third place of tax havens. As far as we're concerned, that's bizarre. As far as we are concerned, the report is raging on all sides. De Volkskrant also says that on this questionable honour there is something to change. Because what are the facts? Our income tax is 25%. It is even relatively high, given the international average of 23.6%. It is said that you would not pay a dividend tax in the Netherlands, but that is simply not true. Yes, the Netherlands has an innovation box, but it has been adapted, in full compliance with OECD standards, against tax avoidance. Germany would score better on this point. Indeed, that country does not have a tax post like the innovation box, but it does so with subsidies. Oxfam Novib does mention the $100 billion in evaded profit tax in developing countries, but forget to mention the $800 billion in other tax revenues that would otherwise be omitted. The source of this is the UNCTAD, the UN Development Organization. The General Court has also indicated that while the tax environment in the Netherlands is favourable to internationally operating companies through arrangements to prevent double tax payments, the laws and regulations as such are not very different from those in our neighbouring countries. As I said before, a substantial package of measures has been taken. Now just let that package do its job for once. So let us not roll over with all kinds of new proposals, such as the proposal made by the EU on the CCCTB and CCCTB, the common tax base or the consolidated tax base. Not only can you compete on tariffs, but you also transfer additional powers to Europe. The VVD doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u39	I see Mr Merkies has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u40	A typical method of the VVD is to tackle the messenger, in this case Oxfam. Let me remind Mrs De Vries that there are more reports showing that the Netherlands is doing badly. An Irish report shows that US companies pay only about 3% tax effectively through the Netherlands. The European Commission has regularly called on the Netherlands to do so. Obama once mentioned three countries, including the Netherlands. We keep getting on the wrong lists, though. So it's not just Oxfam. My question is as follows. I notice that Mrs De Vries says that we have a high tax rate. I also see this in the election programme of the VVD, which contains the phrase 'in relation to our neighbouring countries'. Can Mrs De Vries mention the rates of neighbouring countries? My information on this is completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u41	We are talking in particular about the developments that have taken place in these countries. We are looking, among other things, at the United Kingdom, but also at Belgium, which has announced a reduction which is lower than the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u42	No, Belgium won't get any lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u43	I believe that 20% was the target in Belgium.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u44	Yes, that has been the aim, but we are now at 34%. France is at 38% and Germany is at 30%. Those are our neighbours. Luxembourg is at 29%. That's all higher than the Netherlands. So can Mrs De Vries rewrite that part of the election programme? That's just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u45	No, I'm not gonna rewrite a piece of the election program, and certainly not a piece already established by our members. It is about the developments that are taking place and the trend that is taking place. I have pointed out a number of developments. We can also look at Ireland, at 12.5%. As far as we're concerned, we're not going to that percentage. We do not need to become the discounter of Europe. The international average is 23.6%. The Netherlands is just up there. Apparently, it is the Socialist Party's aim to ensure that taxes are as high as possible. That is certainly not the purpose of the VVD. Mr. Chairman. I was just about to talk about nice left-wing plans. Further left-wing plans are mainly anti-jobs as far as we are concerned. Take the hybrid mismatches third countries directive. Not only are we going to tax America, but this also directly affects about 77,000 Dutch jobs in American companies. Although the SP pointed to a motion which does not advocate a long delay, I would like to draw attention to the motion adopted in the Navy note on hybrid mismatches for third countries. That motion states that we do not want that proposal at all. To put it mildly, I find it extraordinary that there are parties here who are shrugging their shoulders on all these jobs. The VVD is looking at this, because it opts for Dutch jobs. After all, the failure to pay taxes is already being dealt with considerably. The VVD therefore does not now opt for additional measures, but for lower taxes for citizens and businesses. For example, our companies, our SMEs, can compete, undertake and create more jobs for hardworking Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u46	I see Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u47	He's pulling another sprint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u48	That's gonna be the fourth, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u49	It's good for the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u50	Yeah, sure. I find the VVD's vision of international tax avoidance and the story about these jobs so special. I can only see that the VVD knowingly accepts an uneven playing field. Because you're afraid that you're losing jobs from multinational companies, you're giving them a more advantageous position vis-à-vis SMEs. That means Starbucks isn't allowed to pay much, but the coffee shop on the corner is full pound. IKEA may pay a fraction, but the hardworking entrepreneur with the furniture store in the Netherlands has to pay the full pound. How can the VVD make sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u51	I always find it very special that parties like GroenLinks do not look at jobs at all. I would like to give each company a low burden, the large business and the SMEs. SMEs already pay a lower rate of 20% in the Netherlands. In doing so, we have proposed a disk extension for SMEs. That is also included in the Tax Plan. As far as we're concerned, that's the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mrs De Vries simply bypasses the question, and I can see why. Behind the chair is the liberal party of the Netherlands, who always talks about fair competition and a level playing field. I note that the VVD, knowingly, aspires to an uneven playing field for multinational companies vis-à-vis Dutch SMEs. There should no longer be an entrepreneur in the Netherlands voting for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u53	I just indicated that I just want low taxes, both for large companies and for smaller companies. GroenLinks is making this a very strange caricature. For the smaller companies, we have now taken a concrete step. I think that is very good, also for the jobs in the Netherlands. I am surprised that a party such as GroenLinks has no message about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u54	I shall continue to do so, because Mrs De Vries continues to circumvent that question. This is, of course, a double exemption that allows multinationals, especially American companies. And then she says: that is good for employment. So you create the possibility for companies to benefit from a double exemption, to avoid tax. This should then be a means of creating jobs. Mrs. De Vries can't mean that, can she?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u55	I always regret that the SP apparently denies that jobs are involved. I have indicated that a whole package has been put together to combat non-payment of taxes. We say that this is the kind of thing that should be agreed at international level. Let us take a look at these hybrid mismatches in third countries. It has been agreed in the OECD that first the country in which the problem is, in this case, the United States' tax system should have the possibility of resolving it. We now see Trump's plans to reduce taxes and at the same time tackle this problem. I think we should give that country a chance instead of collecting the taxes that America is entitled to. And that at the expense of employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mrs De Vries should not have those jobs. A few months ago it was calculated that this cabinet's austerity policy cost 350 000 jobs. So don't bring that up. This is about double exemption. The OECD and the European Commission have said that if one country does not tax it, the other country must tax it. I think that's very sensible. It makes sense for the United States to tax first. But the United States does not tax or intend to tax. So you automatically end up in the Netherlands. Then the Netherlands must tax it. All European countries are in favour of this, except the VVD, which apparently wants tax avoidance to be the means to create jobs. Isn't that a strange way to create jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u57	If the SP were so concerned about jobs on other fronts, it would also be concerned about the 77.000 Dutch jobs at American companies. The SP says the VVD is doing it alone, but I just pointed out the motion that was adopted at the Navy Note. The majority of the Chamber doesn't want it. Mr Merkies says that America is not going to do it, but I believe that the forthcoming President, who will be inaugurated tomorrow, has indicated that he wants to change the system. I think it is only natural that we should give him the opportunity to adapt the tax system in the United States. That is what was agreed in the OECD, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr. Chairman. In my view, the Chamber broadly agrees with me that we should not only take tough action against tax evasion, just not stick to the rules, but also against tax avoidance. Let me also say that I was pleased with the letter on tax evasion, a letter which we also received in response to the Panama Papers. I saw measures in this regard which were in line with the concerns expressed in the direction of the Chamber by the anti-construction team about all kinds of tricks by tax advisors. These tricks, for example, allow individuals to keep large assets, which they misdirected, out of the reach of the Tax Administration for a long time. I think that's a good approach. We have to note that in the case of tax avoidance we have come farther than many of us thought possible a year or five ago: OECD agreements and European agreements. This is, of course, the very best way to prevent countries from being played against each other and to ensure that large companies actually pay their fair share. I would like to go for low taxes for everyone, but what we levy on taxes must be paid fairly, both by individuals and small businesses and by large companies. First of all, I agree with Mrs Schouten's question on the ground-breakers, as it is called in jargon. These are deductions and constructions that make you pay less tax. She pointed out elements in the innovation box and a motion of the PvdA and D66 on equity and debt previously adopted by the Chamber. It is still more attractive to finance with debt than with equity. I'm also a big fan of such an equity deduction, which you could finance by doing what you can at certain deductions. I'm very curious if the Cabinet will undertake to do something about it. The motion has been adopted and I would like to say to the cabinet: not words but deeds! I am aware that we are heading towards the end of this cabinet period, but if this VVD Secretary of State joins that plea, we are well on our way. Of course, all these fine agreements at international level still need to be implemented. In this context, I am also concerned about the exchange of rulings. I think that is a very good thing, because countries can keep each other sharp in this way, as it does not allow them to make agreements with individual companies that cannot be accepted. I am surprised, like Mr Omtzigt for me, that I had to read that we should exchange 2,000 rulings and the countries around us about 200. I, too, did not have the impression that countries like Belgium are meeting less. What's the deal with that? Can the Secretary of State confirm that all the work so far has shown that all rulings are fully compliant with the law? That is what the Secretary of State has always said. 31 December 2017 is the new deadline for the exchange of rulings. And yes, of course it was extremely acidic that we did not meet that earlier deadline for the exchange. I do not think that we have made the best of it, and I therefore assume that this deadline is really feasible. Can the Secretary of State promise me that? I have questions about two accepted chamber motions. Like Mr Merkies, I had to chuck about the way in which the cabinet in Brussels dealt with an adopted chamber motion in which it was argued that the approach to hybrid mismatches should not be delayed until 2024. It seems that the cabinet has repeated the old commitment and has only omitted the word 2024. I wonder if anyone outside the Netherlands realized that this is a policy change. I don't think so. Frankly, it seemed to me to be a bit of a construct or, as you like, a form of avoidance. What's the bet now? I'm suggesting to the Cabinet to answer that once and for all. Where does this Secretary of State intend to end? Should it be 2019 as in the proposal or does it want to postpone until 2020, something that the motion if it really should leave a little room for? Or is the cabinet secretly just on its way to 2024? What is it now? I really got the impression that sand was being sprinkled. I am also very curious about the interpretation of the cabinet of the adopted chamberal motion of D66 and the Labour Party in which it was asked to consider whether we can really prevent a race to the bottom with a European minimum rate in the Vpb. We harmonise the foundations, but let us ensure a bottom so that we do not end up in a race to the bottom. What exactly did the cabinet do with this motion? Finally, I would like to speak about our Minister for Finance. I am eagerly waiting for his law for the supervision of the trust sector. To be honest, I would have preferred to have more energy in that than in the tough language that we are hearing right now in the run-up to the elections. I must say that I now know: if texts and interviews of PvdA administrators sound like the SP is talking, then it is almost election time again. By the way, this kind of thing does not contribute to people's confidence in politics. We saw in 2012 what those words were worth. However, very simple: what is the cabinet policy now? Do you want the Vpb up? Do you want the Vpb down? I assume that the Secretary of State is speaking on behalf of the Minister. I am about to finish, and I see Mr Grashoff ready. I'll talk for five more seconds so he'll have time to walk to the microphone. We have to tackle tax evasion hard, but there is still much to do, internationally and with a number of Dutch measures. And now Mr Grashoff is going to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr Grashoff is almost preparing for the Olympic Games and is now asking his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u60	This announcement was so clear that I didn't even have to pull a sprint. That's not good for training. I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg about the same question as I asked Mr Omtzigt. We had a good debate on the substance requirement and we have a solid letter with options from the Secretary of State. I did not hear D66 talk about this in a negative way, but in the end the D66 Group did not support the motion, a little to my surprise. What went wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u61	I think that Mr Grashoff and I will find each other in that. Let me say three things. First of all, the supervision of that trust sector; even this State Secretary has said that he thinks we should do something about those letterbox companies. We are all eager to see the law of Minister Dijsselbloem, which we do not see. With regard to the tightening up of the substance requirements, I think that Mr Grashoff and I are in complete agreement. I had some problems with that motion because it was very precise both in terms of deadline and on a number of other points. I didn't want to commit to that in detail. I might even want to move on. I would like to put a question to the Secretary of State and I think that Mr Grashoff and I will find each other in the second term. Of course, it cannot be that the cabinet is not doing anything anymore. That is the impression that has been given to me, just like Mr Grashoff. I therefore appeal to the Secretary of State. What is the cabinet doing extra about tightening up the substance requirements? I hope that this will provide an answer which will satisfy both Mr Grashoff and I. If that is not the case, I would like to go with him in second term in search of a tightening of the substance requirements. Some things should not be taken up in this stage, because I do not want to commit to that now because I may want to be more ambitious. I think we're gonna get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u62	That's a hopeful answer. In any case, I will table that motion in the second term. It may be that after that we will have to do some work. That may not work before the end of this debate, because it is complicated in time. As far as the Secretary of State is concerned, I hope, of course, that he will give a different answer. Last time, he said quite clearly: I am waiting for a ruling from the Chamber and I will stick to that. That statement by the Chamber did not come at that time, at least not in the sense that more had to be done with the substance requirements. I cannot therefore blame the Secretary of State very much on this point, because the ball was in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u63	I agree with you on this tightening up. Mr Grashoff has practiced sprinting to the microphone in the last hour. I think that we will be able to achieve this by perhaps putting together a motion which supports the ambition of tightening up the substance requirements without committing ourselves in detail in a way which, in my opinion, does not fit in with this stage of policy preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u64	I'm gonna take a walk to the mic now, too. That motion was very simple. It concerns the introduction of a pay-as-you-go criterion for letterbox companies. That is a good approach to the added value of these companies in the Netherlands. If that wage bill isn't there, you can doubt the existence of such a letterbox company. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that a minimum power criterion is the approach by which we should seek to limit the number of letterbox companies. Furthermore, the motion leaves enough room for further elaboration. In short, he cannot say right now that he is going to support such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u65	I think I was just saying in my response to Mr Grashoff that you find me by your side for that tightening up. By the way, I never understood that the Secretary of State wasn't gonna do anything else. The core was that I too have always been clear about those substance requirements. The Secretary of State also always points out that as far as he is concerned there is no future for empty mailbox companies in the Netherlands. If the Secretary of State did find that, I'll take a look at his body language. I'm extra motivated to close something beautiful with you here. I think I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u66	If I have always understood the Secretary of State correctly, he takes the hope from international measures that these letterbox companies will disappear automatically. We do not share that hope. We believe that, on top of national measures, these letterbox companies can help. It is our belief that they not only damage the tax base of other countries, but also harm the reputation of the Netherlands and have little added value. The Secretary of State doesn't want to do anything from a different angle, because according to him it's already happening by itself. We are convinced that this will require some additional measures at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u67	Oh, yeah. As far as I am concerned, it must always be the touchstone for us to take measures that actually help and prevent this kind of thing from moving to the neighbours, otherwise we will not have made any progress. I assume that Mr Groot agrees with this. I think we're gonna get out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u68	Everyone will agree that we need to look at the legislation for the trust sector. They're working on that, too. D66 supported the parliamentary hearing on, among other things, the Panama Papers. I also hear about it now from the other parties that have supported it. I am a little surprised that you apparently want to see what developments and what problems there are and what solutions are needed for that, but now, before that has happened at all, all the parties are saying: but at least we have to change that. Then why do you still need that whole wiggle? You could have saved yourself a lot of time and costs by saying that you don't need it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u69	I must confess that this surprises me. The VVD didn't want that interrogation. That's the good right of the VVD. I find it remarkable that, for example, in relation to the Panama Papers, we all come across constructs about which a team of structural measures says instantly: we are simply driven in the wheels by rules that are used against us by expensive advisors of wealthy individuals. I'd like to do something about that. And yes, if there is a letter from this Secretary of State, by the way, from your party, in which he says that tax evasion is being tackled and that measures are already in place to help it, then I am pleased. But Mrs. De Vries, too, isn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u70	I understand Mr Van Weyenberg's trick of putting the ball down on me now...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u71	You said, "Am I happy?" Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u72	I'm happy with that letter. I asked you a question about the trust sector. The trust sector is a specific group. You want to question them in Parliament's interrogation in order to clarify what is going on and what problems need to be resolved. You have supported this, so you seem to think it is necessary to take action. Then you say: I'm going to introduce a few measures, because I don't need them at all anymore. If you look closely at a problem analysis, you have to go through it and then you have to say: we are going to take those measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mrs De Vries thinks I am on her side when she asks for the locational environment to be included in this debate on tax avoidance. That's right. I think there is a lot that can be done without damaging the locational climate, but I still understand that. But with all due respect, I don't understand anything about this. Indeed, I believe that we can take further steps in the area of, for example, substance. That's what it was about. But what was it about in the trust sector? In the talks Mrs De Vries spoke about constructions which the Netherlands Bank says are still a gang in that trust sector, that its own quality rules are not being respected and that there may be helping with all kinds of criminal activities. That's what came up. That's why I'm still in favour of that interrogation. Those questions have not gone away with any substance requirement. They have not gone away with measures in the letter against tax evasion. I am truly surprised that if even the Dutch Bank is calling the bell, Mrs De Vries seems to find it strange that I would like to know more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u74	Then Mrs De Vries can respond one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u75	I think it's a bit of a caricature now. I have said that it is a good thing that the trust legislation is being looked at and that there is a proposal from the cabinet, but I find it strange that you say in the procedure that you are not waiting for the results of that parliamentary questioning in relation to the trust sector and that you are going to decide in advance what you want to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u76	I find that very strange again, because even the letter on tax evasion from your own State Secretary already contains measures to take action. You do not want to have a table because we are going to question Parliament, Mrs De Vries. I want to know more in that interrogation, but we're not gonna sit on our hands in the meantime, are we? I thought the VVD was trying to handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u77	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for about ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u78	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u79	Mr. Chairman. It is not the first time we have had a debate on this. In the meantime, I'm chewing mints because I'm gonna cough otherwise. Cough is something other than illness, so I just show up at work. It's not the first time we've talked about this. I must say, however, that the tone has changed on many points since I experienced this. There is still a certain degree of discontent among some groups. It's not going fast enough, and so on. However, let us be honest: the room is almost empty, the gallery is not very full, your voters are not watching. Maybe it's also good to name it sometime. Maybe I can put it in the Chamber... what I think happened. I think a lot has happened. I have just seen the tail of countries pointing very clearly at each other, just towards each other. Did the Netherlands participate in that too? Yeah, the Netherlands participated in that, too. We found hybrid structures more normal than we find them now. It was. We were all saying that global agreements are necessary, and I think that is also passionate, but I don't know if we had much faith in them getting there. Then came the OECD project. I must say that this is the greatest leap forward in the history of the fight against tax avoidance. That's unique. I've praised it several times because countries are going to do things together. A lot's been done. Let me mention some things. I am not going to go down the whole list, but it should be mentioned that the kick-off was, in my view, done a bit by my predecessor Frans Weekers with his proposal for 23 developing countries. Mr Weekers is still world champion, because there is no country that has imitated us yet. We did that. We have carried out that thought. That has not been very successful, but perhaps it is because Mr Weekers was no longer among us. He did, however, and that was a very nice step. We should therefore be admired. Let me mention someone else, namely my colleague Dijsselbloem. He played a very important role in pushing through a package that is simply unique in size, impact and speed. Brag about co-workers' rights. We all did. We've come to a great end with that. We all do that because we think that not only the person in the street, ourselves and the neighbor should pay taxes. Businesses also simply have to pay taxes; whether they are small or large, national or international. That's what we stand for. A lot has happened in that thought and that has changed the Netherlands. Let me name that. That doesn't mean we have to distance ourselves from everything we've ever embraced. For example, I remain a passionate defender of the participation exemption on substantive grounds, and I will always remain so. That is one thing that is not only intended to prevent double taxation. It is also essential in an increasingly global world that you do not favour the home market or the off market, but that you do not pay zero, not two, but one tax. I like the treaty network, because it ensures efficient resolution and clarity for doing business between countries. I'm defending passionate security in advance. In substance, security must be the same as collateral in advance, but it gives confidence in advance. I think that's important. This applies not only to large companies, but also to bed and breakfasts. When you start a bed and breakfast, you have to define what private rooms and what business rooms are. It's good to know that in advance. So clarity is needed in advance, in accordance with the law, and in a neat way. Every taxable person has the right to do so. In this way, I think we can keep the strong points of the Netherlands in mind. At the same time, I believe that we must recognise that we have moved a huge step forward, together with all the other countries, in the fight against tax avoidance and the fight against tax evasion. However, this cannot be done without monitoring the locational climate. You can make all kinds of statements about this and you can find all kinds of things about it, but the fact remains that we can only embrace an en-en strategy. Yes, we want and must participate in the fight against tax avoidance. The Netherlands must not become the discounter of Europe, but we must also ensure that the Netherlands remains attractive to companies, national companies and also international companies. We can be very tough about that. I have had debates here in which, in less than 45 seconds, 50 000 jobs were removed from the interrupting microphone. That's too intense. Yeah, we think everyone should pay for their fair share, but it's all about jobs, maybe the work of our neighbor. That's important. So we've moved forward a lot. The strengths are still there, but we have to deal with them carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u80	I see that Mr Grashoff has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u81	The Secretary of State puts this back here in all reasonableness. That's always an art. I can't disagree with him in every way. Still. This image is actually opposed to the image that the Netherlands is in the top 3 of tax havens. This picture is not outlined in a single report, but this is a persistent criticism of the Dutch tax environment and the situation in the Netherlands. The Netherlands would be one of the biggest spinners in the world of tax avoidance. I don't think the Secretary of State's going over that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u82	Well, I would have thought of that if Mr Grashoff hadn't interrupted me about that now. Because I have heard his comments correctly and I do not care about them either. Let me say this. We all know the next figure. Someone says: yes, there is so much money flowing through the Netherlands and with that we take tax revenues from developing country X, Y or Z. Portugal is also often mentioned in this context; I do not know why and not a bad word about that country. Several countries are mentioned in this context. If a country finds that it receives too little tax revenue from a company in that country, then there is only one authority around the world, on earth, that can do something about it: the tax authority of that country. It is not for the Netherlands, it is not possible for the Netherlands and not the case of the Netherlands to see if enough tax has ever been paid in an earlier step about a money flow. It is the task of the Netherlands to participate in constructions against circumvention. It is the explicit commitment of the Netherlands to provide all the information necessary to enable that country to tax properly. But there's only one person who can do that, and that's that country. It could be that it's not being properly executed. It may be that a country is too dissatisfied with its own legislation and its own anti-abuse measures. Go and do your thing. Go do it, because we cannot collect taxes for other countries. We're willing to do everything we can to make sure it's fair. We want that very explicitly. We want to take the lead in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u83	I only partially agree with the Secretary of State on this point. However, it is our responsibility to cooperate widely in tax avoidance elsewhere. We are not alone responsible for this, I agree with the Secretary of State, but we are jointly responsible. You can say anything about the willingness to exchange information or whatever, but we are dealing with hundreds of countries, many of which may have a much less robust tax regime than we do and have very different problems. We should not be playing the role we are playing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u84	We cannot determine how much tax is paid in other countries. We can provide information that is requested and unsolicited. We can even give technical assistance to all kinds of countries. We can take part in measures against abuse. We can all do that. We all do, but it is too much to expect us to be able to determine whether there is a sufficient level of taxation. There are constructions from the past which I would like to say sincerely to Mr Grashoff, who never thought in substance that they were a jewel from the shop window. There are hybrid constructions that, no matter where you looked at them, were never pretty. Those kinds of constructions, which were widespread, can only be dealt with together. If one doesn't take a step, the other doesn't either. Addressing this together with the OECD is exactly what the Netherlands committed itself to in 2015. It's exactly what we're doing. It's exactly what's happening. That is why I think that is another answer to Mr Grashoff's concern: the Oxfam Novib report is not of high quality; I had a somewhat firm term in mind, but that is not nice. There are four or five criteria that you have to meet to be a tax haven. You have to offer substanceless companies tax advantages. You have to have a zero rate or almost a zero rate. You must actively oppose the exchange of information. You need legislation that will keep final stakeholders or structures that are against the law secret. We don't meet any of the criteria. I can go on for a while. I do not support this in any way. I don't feel like the Netherlands in any way. I do feel appealed when parties come forward with sensible proposals to prevent evasion or evasion. For example, the letter contains a number of international movements of all kinds against evasion. That is what I am saying: these are just sensible movements and that is what the Netherlands is involved in. I feel addressed to other countries. Those are structures or structures that we might have liked ten years ago, but which were never really beautiful. We're gonna do something nice about that. Then I feel addressed, to the content. Several questions have been asked about the exchange of rulings. I can only agree with the concerns about this. We have said ourselves that transparency is an important weapon in the fight against tax avoidance. "We"? Who's "we"? I said that myself. I think it is important to comply with the agreements on the exchange of information. So that's what we're gonna do. Can you make it in time? No, I can't do that in time. All sorts of things turn out to be more complicated than we thought. There appears to be more dispute about the clarity. In all honesty, we just have to do everything we can. The taxpayers themselves are going to contribute to this. It is not the case that the rulings are exchanged, yes, on request, but in the first instance standard forms are exchanged. If we all have texts in 28 languages with a different format, we will never get out. Then it's a completely unusable mountain. We have taken this in a sensible way in a kind of structure with standard forms, which makes it searchable and understandable on the other side of the border. They'll be filled in. Taxable persons can also contribute to this. We have set up a whole task force for the forms not filled in by the taxpayers, but it is not going to do us any good, because in the end it is going to be the case inspector, who simply has to go through his files. The APA/ATR were centrally stored, the others were not. There was no reason for that. There was no question of that being exchanged. Those were just agreements with the taxpayers themselves who were in the agreement log. So it's also the inspector who has to go through his own work, through the wallet to get that out. Unfortunately, it takes more time than we thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u85	That sounds like quite a mess, I must say. But my point...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u86	Well, well, well, well, well. This is too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u87	I'm sorry, who was talking? My point...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u88	It's not my turn, but this word is not neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u89	The word "mess"? Well, come on. I think we're worse here...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u90	I will interpret it as a question and answer it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u91	Good. But we speak through the chairman, so Mr Merkies speaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u92	I was just beginning to ask my question. The Secretary of State started immediately with the following point. Looks like he took off Oxfam Novib's report with this, but I really don't think that's enough of this report. I'd like to address that to the Secretary of State. It is a serious report, which looks at different parts, including the way in which profits are pushed. Large companies, especially multinational companies and American companies, have extremely high profits in the Netherlands, much more than in other countries. It is also known from other reports that the Secretary of State does not go into, but which I have mentioned, such as a report by the European Commission, that the Netherlands is known for the so-called tax lures. So there are plenty of reports. I also mentioned an Irish report. Then what the Secretary of State does is attack the messenger instead of looking at himself, do self-reflection and see if the Netherlands plays a reasonable role in this or that facilitates the Netherlands' tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u93	I am not a commentator or reporter of interest groups and lobbyists. I've said what I said. You could point out with a lot more depth what's wrong with that report. Anyway, I understand that Mr Merkies is an admirer of the report. I'm not, and I really want to leave it at that. My point is that we are not only a net country participating in all the international OECD agreements, but also that we have made more progress in recent years than in any other similar period and that Dutch rulers such as Mr Dijsselbloem but also Weekers have made a greater contribution to this than many rulers in other countries. We must be proud of that, and I want to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u94	The only thing the Secretary of State says, I understand that, because he's being attacked hard in the report "It's a bad report." And that's it, but then he'll have to deal with it in terms of content. They come with reasonable criteria: to what extent is shifting with profits made possible and how many constructions does the Netherlands make possible? I am talking about a harmful tax regime, which we in the Code of Conduct Group are often attacked by other countries. They are not alone in their criticism either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u95	They'll probably find Mr. Merkies by their side. But there are just criteria and assessments about the Netherlands that don't add up. I mention, for example, the story of shifting profits. What kind of vague story is that? The Netherlands has a very well developed settlement system. It follows the OECD standards and has been audited by the General Court in the ruling practice. We're very pure at that. We would be failing ourselves if we did not tax the profits on the value created here. That is being looked at very carefully. Shifting profits suggests that you can name another profit to your heart's content, but that's not how it works. That's not how it works. Again, I am not a commentator of interest groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u96	I myself did not go into the substance of Oxfam Novib's report, but the Secretary of State now appoints himself the shifting of profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u97	Those were the terms of Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u98	Okay, but this Secretary of State got away from that. I just proposed a quote from our own finance minister. For the sake of clarity, I would like to recite that quote: 'They', 'the companies, the multinationals', 'use the existing tax treaties and all kinds of constructions for that, where the profits are finally parked on some tropical islands. We have facilitated such constructions for a long time because they are good for employment in consultancy and law firms. But we have to get rid of that," our finance minister. Mr Merkies is being attacked because he appoints the shifting of profits, but I believe that the statement that we facilitate the parking of profits on some tropical islands belongs to the same terminology. Will the Secretary of State also distance himself from the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u99	I think that the Minister of Finance was ten against a target of American profits tolerated by the US tax authorities in some sort of'sea-saving' structures. It is true that there were here and there in all kinds of countries some hybrid constructions that have made this kind of thing possible, but now we distance ourselves from it. But those weren't Dutch profits. The Dutch Tax Administration collects Dutch taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u100	We've facilitated that kind of construction. We can have a very semantic discussion about this, but I do not intend to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u101	No, me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u102	But if the Secretary of State is so outspoken about Oxfam Novib and about Mr Merkies, then it would be fair for him to be so outspoken about our own finance minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u103	I indicated that those hybrid constructions were definitely not jewelry. The profits of other countries were taxed in the wrong countries. This was not caused by the Netherlands, but by hybrid constructions that existed internationally. I'm gonna distance myself from that, too. That would be a good reason not to distribute this type of report in this way. More points have been deducted for practices that have already been abolished in a grey past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u104	I am a little surprised by Mrs Schouten and Mr Grashoff as regards the role played by the Netherlands in facilitating tax avoidance. I quote Karel Anthonissen, the director of the Belgian tax authorities. He said: "The free European market allows profits made throughout Europe to flow to the Netherlands and then disappear to the Caribbean in the form of interest and royalties." We are talking about large capital flows flowing free of tax through letterbox companies to tax havens. We have previously tabled motions to tax such flows. This seems to me to be an example of how the Netherlands undermines the tax base of other countries and cooperates in tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u105	No, because if European profits disappear, the tax authorities in the source country have dropped a stab somewhere. They have forgotten to tax part of the profits. That's up to them. That's not up to the Netherlands. The Netherlands has no role in this. The Netherlands can't do that for them. If a Portuguese profit goes untaxed in Portugal, it is a great pain for the Portuguese taxpayer, but it is up to the Portuguese tax authorities to resolve it. If the profits then end up in the Bahamas, where it is actually American profits, then the Americans have to look at themselves. Our tax treaties make the Netherlands a logical choice for a country through which it flows. But the fact that we have a good highway does not mean that we are guilty of the thief driving over it. The Netherlands is a country with extremely good facilities, but the Netherlands does not levy any Portuguese tax or American tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u106	But then the only alternative for a country like Portugal would be to cancel the tax treaty with the Netherlands. That is, of course, a heavy substance. The Netherlands could also accommodate other countries by closing the route through which capital goes untaxed to tax havens. We can do this by levying a withholding tax ourselves if the Netherlands is used as a transit country for capital to tax havens. However, we do not. We have repeatedly tabled motions on this subject, but unfortunately they have not made it. It seems to me to be an example in which the Netherlands plays a bad role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u107	In any case, the role that the Netherlands wants to play is that it recognises that this type of tax avoidance is not the intention and that, together with other countries, in the OECD context, we need to take measures to prevent this. We do this by jointly taking anti-abuse measures. We do that by sharing information together. In these things, the Netherlands really wants to lead the way. In the field of information, we have also made an important contribution to a number of such proposals and to their elaboration. With the rulings it is still difficult for us to do all that, because we want to do that very seriously and are very committed to doing so. The definition we keep, as we think it is. That's a broad definition. As a result there are many, but the Netherlands participates actively in this. The central register was a concern of Mr Omtzigt. I really distance myself from the word "junk." Inspectors have agreed, in accordance with the law and according to their professional ethics, to give clarity to taxpayers. They have done so explicitly within the law. I think it was Mr Grashoff who thought there were all kinds of attractive deals to be made. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This has been kept and this is recorded where it should be recorded, namely simply in the log of the taxpayer concerned. Now we say, "We're gonna exchange that." That is why there is now a need for a central register. That's exactly what's happening. The inspectors pull it all out and standardize it in some kind of standard format. It's centralized. New rulings are also laid down. That is exactly what Mr Omtzigt is suggesting. With the ambitions for an exchange like we have now, there must be a central register for that. That's what we're working on right now, and that's exactly what we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u108	Even if we change the policy, I assume that the inspectors have put things properly on paper. I have no reason to doubt that. But a number of colleagues and I too have asked whether, in this exercise that is now under way, we can come across rulings that would not be satisfactory on second thought. That's a concern there is. Does the Secretary of State still come up with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u109	Yeah, I'm not finished at all. That question was indeed put by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Omtzigt. In exchange, we do not re-examine the ruling. The ruling is established, centrally registered and also made available on request to the other tax authorities. We're not gonna test it again. It is also not the case that the rulings are never reviewed, because they have a certain period of validity and at some point the agreements need to be renewed and then a decision is taken again. That decision may be the old decision, but I can only imagine that I have no overview of it at all and that is not how it works either, because there are new insights, that other decisions are taken at the end of time. It's possible. But the exchange exercise is not the exercise in which all those rulings are reviewed in substance. I can say that the deadline will certainly not be met. But there's no dusting under the table. That's the other side of the story. If another authority says it wants to see that ruling, it is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u110	That is clear, but I think that the question of D66 and a number of other groups is a different one. I will also broaden the question. In the past year, has the Secretary of State come to the conclusion that, during the validity of the ruling, examples have been found: what we have agreed there do not appear to be covered by the tax legislation in force? That can happen at some point; I could imagine that. That is, of course, the touchstone many are looking for. We do not see these rulings; we will soon be discussing them in this debate. We are looking for indications as to whether things are going wrong in practice or perhaps something more often. Or does the Secretary of State not have one example in which he observed during the term: that ruling might be just over the edge?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u111	It is no surprise that the Secretary of State does not, of course, deal with rulings. He is not concerned with individual taxpayers. But the same question that Mr Van Weyenberg is asking me now, I have of course asked the organisation: do we ever encounter rulings that we wonder if we would write down now? I think that will happen irrevocably, because people sometimes appeal non-ruling tax decisions and then eventually get right. So we were wrong about that. The IRS is irretrievably wrong from time to time. Mr Van Weyenberg and I must therefore assume from the logic that this will happen. The sound that I have heard is: we sometimes come across rulings that we do not really capture so clearly and which we would record more clearly at the moment. There is then work to record them more clearly, I think. There is no systematic overview of this because, of course, there is no systematic overview of the quality of all the tax decisions taken by all the inspectors in the organisation. This is happening throughout the organisation. A ruling is not something that is only closed in Rotterdam. Any inspector, up to and including a bed and breakfast, can provide a security in advance. There are undoubtedly some wrong decisions to make. Therefore, it is also good that a ruling has a limited validity and then you look at it critically again. We have also arranged, but that has been a while since, that there is not one person looking at important rulings but more people. There is as much contradiction organized in the process as necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u112	Mr Van Weyenberg, on this point I assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u113	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah... yeah, I can follow all this. I understand that you want to clarify it better, but my question was one more stroke more precise. I have heard many answers, but the answer to this question is not yet: does the Secretary of State know any examples in response to his question to the department in which the conclusion after all was that they had simply been too broad? Again, we do not see all these rulings; that is why I think it is a relevant question. What was the answer to that question? Is the picture that sometimes too wide rulings have been established? The Secretary of State has always said no in the past, but I'm just looking for facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u114	I share with Mr Van Weyenberg not only that the question is relevant, but also that I am not dealing with rulings. I asked the question and I got it back: it happens that afterwards we find that we... and so on. But we have to assume from the logic that something goes wrong from time to time. Let me give that answer on my own authority; I have not heard that from the organization. There's no other way to do that, is there? There are many saints in the Tax Office, but that does not apply to everyone. However, it is being looked at very seriously. It was also audited once by the General Court. We have to assume that sometimes something goes wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u115	The fact that the Netherlands is being flagged by the European Commission because of tax agreements with Starbucks, that was one of them, wasn't it? And not a little one, I thought. Did the Secretary of State forget that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u116	No, he certainly isn't. And when you ask the people who assessed this, do they think they did that wrong, they say, "We do not understand the Commission's assessment basis, because the Commission has developed its own criterion for allocating profits. We do not understand that criterion. Nor is that criterion consistent with the OECD. If this is to be the new world, at least we want to have legal clarity about it." That is why they have appealed. We'll see what that gets us. A question has also been asked about this in this debate, so I will look into it a little bit later. I'm trying to stick to my ruling point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u117	This is precisely what this whole issue is all about. The shadowiness surrounding it and the unwillingness to resolve it mean that we must continue to discuss it in this way. The Secretary of State says it's up to the European Commission, or to... It's up to anything but the Secretary of State, the Tax Office or the rulings that are issued. Can the Secretary of State imagine that at some point this is no longer entirely credible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u118	I would like to comment on the issue of the disclosure of the rulings. The Members of Parliament always get ahead of me, but I try to answer the questions that have been asked by subject. I had arrived at the exchange of rulings. I will say a few things about this, but I promise I will come back to the public. I have been asked how I will keep the Chamber informed. The point of exchange is hard on my stomach. I have argued for it and we have made a serious assessment. We have seriously considered whether we can achieve this, but that is not a good thing. I'll let the Chamber know where I stand in every six months' report. In the organisation everything is done about this, but this is really on the board of the individual inspectors who have quite a bit of a hard time doing so. Mr Omtzigt has been somewhat vile, but also positive, in asking how I can explain that the Netherlands has so many more rulings than other countries. Is there less advance assurance in other countries? That is conceivable, but perhaps Mr Omtzig's question is also a good one in that sense that we should seriously ask ourselves whether it is true or whether we are using a different definition of a ruling. In other countries, bends may be cut at rulings that should be exchanged. That is why I think it is important for the OECD to review this. The OECD is monitoring the various OECD countries to ensure that this is done, and we are very keen to see it. I come now to the public. The discussion about public access is not new and every time the word "schimmig" comes down. I think there are several ways to look at that shadowiness. A tax decision in advance is no different from a tax decision afterward. I believe that there is quite a broad support in the Chamber for the choice not to place tax decisions on the streets afterwards. Individuals and companies handle their business with the tax authorities and we have laid down in the law that it will remain and that this will require secrecy. This also applies, of course, to the guarantee in advance. The shadowiness that is being discussed in this Chamber relates mainly to the quality of the tax decisions. My point is, of course, that if you really don't trust that, you shouldn't trust the decisions made afterwards. However, it is always focused on the advance security. That is why it is important that every now and then we launch an independent audit of the quality of the rulings, which did not happen too long ago. There's nothing against that, and I've offered it to the Chamber several times. People ask: what about taxpayer X, Y, or Z, because company Pietje or Jantje is doing this now. I never talk about Pietje or Jantje, but if a concrete construction is presented, I am prepared to have it investigated under what conditions it would and would not be legitimate. That discussion is possible, because that is a discussion about our tax system. That is the Chamber of Commerce, because it has been passed by the Chamber. I am willing to go quite far in that by having a professional way reflect on conceivable constructions that are not related to a specific taxpayer. As far as I'm concerned, any audit is admissible. That audit was done, too. We worked it out. There has not been anyone who has looked closely at the ruling practice and says that it is not right. There's nothing against doing that. In fact, the Belgian proposal is not so much different, because it presents anonymised constructions. I am prepared to reflect on conceivable constructions in the debate with the Chamber. I would choose to keep secrecy for the rulings that exist, but to allow and release all kinds of review.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u119	I did quote the example of Belgium, but I did not mean that it should only be presented to the Chamber, but that it should be published. In Belgium it is indeed anonymized. That goes a lot further than in the Netherlands. Agreements made in a code of conduct group should be published in the first instance. After that, you can think of all kinds of things about competitive information and so on, but the main message should be that it is published, also in view of the accountability to the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u120	Secrecy is in the law. I am not going to answer to the general public about a specific individual taxpayer. Some things concern specific cases. These should remain in the case of specific cases. That's what the law says. If things get different in the law, I still have to see how cheerful everyone gets, but for the time being this is in the law and I am sticking to it. The secrecy is pretty heavy and pretty serious. It's been thought through. It's a long tradition. I'm not going to break it when there are other ways to maintain that confidence and fight the shadowiness. I have made several proposals to this effect, even in the past. Concrete constructions are not delivered to me. There was a hopeful look in the room at the time and a note was made of it, but I never received anything. I'm always willing to reflect on a specific construction. I am also always willing to have the ruling practice audited, one way or another, at any frequency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u121	The Secretary of State says that no concrete examples have been provided to him. That's exactly the problem, because they're secret, so they don't know them. The Secretary of State then says that he complies with the law, but he makes the law! That's why we're here. If he starts to rely on it and hides behind it, he is always hiding behind Article 67 of the Treaty, so the public doesn't know about all those tax agreements that the State Secretary says are very good agreements. However, we do not know that. We see that sometimes something comes out, sometimes through a leak, sometimes through the European Commission, which you can scratch behind your ears for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u122	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u123	The Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr President, may I at least have a reaction, I hope?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u125	The Secretary of State may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u126	I have made it clear that I am not prepared to sacrifice the confidentiality for this, because I think that the judgment on the quality of the ruling practice is a matter of following other ways. I like those manners very much. I understand the concerns, but I don't like the cure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u127	The Secretary of State is talking about secrecy. This secrecy applies, of course, to the members of the House of Representatives, but not to the tax authorities of Romania, Cyprus, Mexico or any other country that can request that ruling. The balance is therefore somewhat lost. However, I heard an interesting opening, namely that the State Secretary is open to a review or audit of the ruling practice. That's exactly what I asked. I'm not asking if I can personally study all the rulings. I am not in the same position as a number of colleagues. However, I would very much appreciate such an audit. In view of the signals which Mr Groot has already referred to, we think that this is wise. Does the Secretary of State himself have a proposal for that audit or does he leave such a proposal to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u128	I have to suck that out of my mind now, but we had such an audit done by the General Court not long ago. I can imagine that we would agree on a certain frequency, so that it would be repeated. I would certainly not do that every year, but I can imagine, for example, that it happens every five years. It's not weird to have something that escapes the sight of being judged on quality in a very strict manner. We did that once. The credibility of that report was high here and there, but some comments were also made. I found that rather complicated. We could organise something like this again. For that, we need to look at the frequency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u129	I expected a more concrete proposal. It seems to me appropriate to have a review carried out on the exchanged rulings. Were they all under the law? Did they all fit into the policy? The Secretary of State says they're not all saints at the IRS. Well, there aren't 150 saints in the House of Representatives, so I can guarantee him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u130	I'm disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u131	Anyway, there's no more than 149, just to get myself out of it. So there's every reason to do that test yourself, before another country says, "Hey, isn't there something wrong, is there something weird? That is why I challenge the Secretary of State to consider how he can take a test on the rulings that have been and will be exchanged in the coming year. Did they change in advance? Did they comply with the policy? Did they comply with the law in the strictest sense? Are mistakes made and, if so, how frequent? How do you fix it? If there are two mistakes somewhere, it doesn't impress us all, but you learn from your mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u132	I appreciate the sense of thoroughness behind this. It is also a desire for purity of what is exchanged. Without Mr Omtzig's probable intention, it is one of the most dangerous measures we can come up with for the Tax Administration. If we have to re-examine all the rulings that need to be exchanged on a case-by-case basis, then we are calling for an incredible amount of work on us and then it never comes. I think that, if an audit is to be carried out, we should do it on a random basis with wisely designed samples. That's really the way. There's a certain frequency to that. Let me take that on board and think about it. I am starting to speak more and more of what I do and what I would not feel for. If I let it drink for a while, there might just be something on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u133	The Secretary of State will continue his speech. Clock's ticking, too. A number of colleagues are very reluctant to interfere. Others walk to the microphone more often. I ask for restraint, because there are still a lot of questions open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u134	In any case, let me join with those who have a great interest in getting rid of any shadowiness surrounding the ruling practice. Pre-security is a very big asset of the Dutch Tax Administration. I'm sure it'll be done nicely. I am also convinced that it can never be flawless, but I would like to contribute to credibility, albeit in a way that is feasible and justified. Mr Grashoff asked me about Mr Dijsselbloem's statement. That's a little hard for me. I have tried to understand social democracy at various stages of my life, but I never succeeded. I always have to deal with extremely intelligent and decent people again, and I think that cooperation is a great pleasure, but when I am asked for explanations for this thought, I am full of teeth. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr Van Weyenberg has done this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u136	A rhetorically clever answer, but the question was not about the Social Democrat Dijsselbloem. The question was about mínister Dijsselbloem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u137	I have heard Minister Dijsselbloem make no other statements than those that fit into cabinet policy. I have heard the campaigner Dijsselbloem make other statements, but I did not understand them. And I think we all know what's going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u138	Then I wish not only the Minister but also the Secretary of State to look again at the law of the state and the rule that the cabinet speaks with one voice. We have already learned from Mr Nawijn that the person does not exist: it is always the ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u139	Yes... Mr. Chairman. Mr Merkies complains a bit that there would have been a request for a long delay. That's exactly not the case! Let me put it this way: from what Mr Merkies has said on this subject, I could, with much less difficulty, draw the conclusion that there has been no call for a long delay. In an AO Ecofin is almost shared in so many words that 2024 was the opening bid. That is being negotiated now, but very explicitly! My colleague, the Minister for Finance, does not have a job in Ecofin! It was mentioned a year ago. If there are years buzzing and someone doesn't mention them afterwards, then this unspoken word might be one of the most telling words you can do in Ecofin. He said that he was prepared to compromise. A clearer statement cannot be received in such a gremium. At the same time, however, in view of the forthcoming negotiations, I do not find it productive to commit myself to anything, other than to confirm that there is a Parliamentary motion that does not pursue the postponement as stated in the sheet. I would like to make it very clear that this motion is well understood. What was in the papers: yes, that... Everything in the newspaper is always true, but sometimes the news in the newspaper is behind. I don't know. I don't know what newspaper that was either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u140	I'm trying my best to hold back, but it's a weird story anyway. It is now outlined that the Minister interprets the motion correctly by saying that he is prepared to compromise, a motion in which the Chamber has just stated that it is not going for a long delay. The opposite is, of course, true, as I say to the Secretary of State who may then again speak with the Minister. In principle, the delay must then be as short as possible and the Minister must act in the opposite direction and therefore little compromise is prepared. Surely that would have been the right interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u141	Not at all. It does not say that there should only be a plea for no delay. It says in the motion that there is no call for a long delay. The explanatory memorandum explicitly mentions 2024 as a long delay. The honourable Member, who would have said otherwise, did not mention this now. He even said that, in line with this motion, he was prepared to compromise. He did plead for a postponement. There is no one in the Chamber who has said that should not be. As far as I'm concerned, he did a good job of that. If we interpret that differently, I don't know if there's any possibility of getting any closer. I thought this was extremely neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u142	I don't think so! It's a really weird move. First there is a very clear position of the Dutch government with a date and then there is no date at all. It would have been a fair approach on the part of the Minister if he had said: "A little delay. What can we say? Six months to a year, but not anymore." That would have been a reasonable way of carrying out this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u143	Well, we don't quite agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u144	I see that Mr Merkies also wishes to intervene on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u145	I believe, moreover, that a letter has also been promised on this subject. Maybe we should wait and see before we continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u146	I doubt the Secretary of State has said everything he wanted to say about the hybrid constructions by now. If it isn't, I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u147	I was in favour of Mr Merkies' comments on zero rates as a criterion for the blacklist, but I think he wants to interrupt on an earlier point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u148	So that hybrid item was handled by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u149	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u150	I will give Mr Merkies room for his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u151	The question remains why the Secretary of State continues to hold on to postponement. He came up with a whole story about American law. The Secretary of State knows this has been going on for a long time, right? The OECD has already made a proposal in 2013. What's his reason to keep this up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u152	Then we're gonna do the argument again. I have put this in a record, I have mentioned that the country of residence should have the opportunity to restore it itself, and I mentioned that we are not talking here about light decisions for taxpayers but heavy ones. It is a matter of establishment. At the same time, I have said that this type of construction will come to an end, entirely in the light of the OECD. Mr Merkies should be pleased with that. It's crystal clear in the chip and I really have nothing to add to it. We also discussed this in the Ecofin Council. I don't know if we should do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u153	The Secretary of State says that America must be able to get its legislation in order. That's the argument. I would like to suggest something that is contained in a confidential document. It says "trustworthy," but now it's no longer confidential because it's wobbled. There was a Catshuis consultation in 2015 on the Dutch location climate. The document states: "There are strong indications that the US will not tax these profits in order not to undermine the competitiveness of their businesses abroad." In short, it was known to the Secretary of State that the US is not going to tax it anyway. Then the story isn't true that the U.S. should have the chance? Mr President, I will hand over this document to you so that it can be distributed and the Secretary of State and the other Members of Parliament can take note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u154	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u155	There are now clear indications that the opposite is happening and that it is going to happen. Let's just wait and see. It could be sooner than Mr Merkies fears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u156	I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u157	And any country can take care of this for itself. We do not have to wait for the Netherlands. Any country can take care of this. We have been asked how we have made our efforts towards zero rates. This was discussed at the Ecofin Council on 8 November. There was a very wide-ranging discussion at that time on whether the zero rate should be included as a criterion. This proposal was not fertile in many Member States. It's about unanimity. There is now a kind of compromise whereby the zero rate is an indicator of the criterion that jurisdictions should not facilitate offshore structures. The Netherlands has agreed to this and in this sense the zero rates are involved in the assessment, albeit less directly than Mr Merkies would have wished. Mr Omtzigt had a good point on the rulings. That's what I started. Mrs Schouten and Mr Weyenberg asked the same question, namely what the cabinet thinks of the innovation box, equity and debt. We once had a separate debate on the innovation box in this room and once in an AO. The government considers this an appropriate tool to remain attractive in the international setting environment for innovative companies. Moreover, it also attracts some additional innovation. We have exchanged this with each other in great detail. That is also the cabinet position. In the case of equity and debt, the cabinet has previously stated in a broader proposal to look at the tax system that it is willing and sees opportunities to bring that more into line. Well, there were just a little too few left in the Chamber to go through with that. In the meantime, in the First Chamber and the Second Chamber, it has been promised that a letter will deal with this subject, so that it can be included in the cabinet formation. This letter will discuss not only the possibilities of aligning it, but also the possibility of proper re-opening. The subject is not dead. It is also a popular issue among economists, as it could eventually reduce the pressure to enter into debt without increasing the tax burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u158	That's all win-win-win. Indeed, we have talked about it many times here. Moreover, my comment was not so much about the innovation box, but rather about the general principle of broadening corporate tax. The Secretary of State is now working very actively on the letter from the Panama Papers, the letter from last week, even though the subject will actually be taken up after the elections. He says, "I'm on it now." If it's such a good idea, can't he just get on with this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u159	I did it once. There were not enough left at the table, but Mrs Schouten was still there and I was there. We have looked at each other in certain passages. I understand the call, but I think we should put this on the table for another formation. It's an important subject. It is also a bigger, more fundamental and heavier subject than some of the subjects that can be included in the letter and which, by the way, have some feet in the earth. We're gonna have to put this down there. After these intensive talks on reform, I have seen so many initiatives in election programmes that I have good hope that a second blow is worth a lower blow than a third and a fourth and that such things will ever happen. If you speak wisely about this, then there are a lot of votes that say that it is sensible in substance, but also a lot that say that you should not do this kind of thing in isolation, but in a wider package. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u160	It may well be that this Secretary of State will be sitting for a while after the election. I would hate for him to sit on his hands in the meantime. Anyway, I'll table a motion on that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u161	I trust... sorry, I really long for that one minute that I can sit on my hands for once. Mr Van Weyenberg asks if we can suspend for a minute so that I can sit on my hands. Mr Groot says that the Commission is coming up with proposals on the disclosure of aggressive structures and he advocates that the cabinet embrace them. I think that is a statement by Mr Groot that he at least embraces that idea. The cabinet really can't do much other than wait until there's something to embrace. I don't have any ideas about it yet, and I'm not gonna embrace what's not there yet. It just needs to be judged on its merits. There's a logical sequence in that. We work with chips and we have to do it in a proper way. It's not about small things, either. We just wait and come promptly with a reaction. Mr Groot asks what would happen if the Starbucks case were to be lost. That's not the expectation, but well, those are expectations. Maybe I shop selectively, because I ask the specialists on this side. Maybe Mr. Big has different expectations, but I don't have them. I can't anticipate it either. In any case, it would mean that, in the area of allocation of profits and transfer pricing, there is a certain distance from the OECD concept, which I would find very sad for that reason alone. I think that would be a step back. I'm known as someone who thinks that's a very decent job. It is probably not all in the interest of the Netherlands, but collectively it is in the interest of the world and therefore good. It's well thought out. I would be sorry if we were to ride through it a little bit with something which, in my opinion, and in the opinion of the specialists, does not have that level of solidity. But we're gonna see it. I can't anticipate it yet, and if I could, I wouldn't. Mrs De Vries also expressed concerns about the exchange of rulings. I have talked about this in detail. What we could still do is to amend the Tax Administrative Law Decision so that filling in the standard form becomes part of asking for security in advance. That whole process needs to be redesigned. It's gotta be better. This provides more comfort for the new rulings than for the existing ones. I am convinced that we will not see this problem again in the future, but that delay is terrible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u162	I have heard the answer to the question of how much manpower is going to be in catching up with those rulings, perhaps not clearly enough. How many people are we gonna bet for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u163	That's a good question, but I don't have the answer. If it was a central unit, you could say something about that. There is a kind of task force on one part, but most of the existing rulings are simply agreements contained in the individual inspector's portfolios. I don't know what part of his time he or she spends on it or what people on his or her team work on it. I'm just missing the central overview. It has been made clear that this is considered important. Everyone knows about it. The inspectors know this is expected of them, but it is a difficult task. I don't have a central view. Then I'd almost have to go through the hours records. So I don't have the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u164	Then my follow-up question, on which the Secretary of State bases his expectation that those delays will be overtaken and that we will still meet those delayed deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u165	The estimate is based on the speed with which it rolls the last few weeks of the band and a certain extrapolation to that 2,000, which we are also not sure about. We don't know that for sure. We won't know until we've just picked it up. That is really the result of an understandable, proper practice at the time of setting agreements in the file and that there was no reason to do so centrally. Well, that's why I'm here now. Afterwards we might have wanted it all to be different, but it has gone nicely and we're stuck with it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u166	Very briefly, Mr Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u167	I have another question about the item before this. That was about aggressive tax constructions. The Secretary of State reiterated that he had no views on this. However, the Netherlands does play a role in preparing Europe's position to promote the disclosure of aggressive tax structures. I would ask him, as the Netherlands, to have an opinion on this and to express it in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u168	It all depends on what you're gonna ask of who and how you're gonna do it. I find it difficult to take a stand on this matter now. The discussion has arisen before. In my opinion, the UK has made legislation binding on those intermediaries. We saw advantages and disadvantages in that, which I can no longer reproduce. That's what was discussed in an AO. It's not a subject I'm talking about. Honestly, I don't think the workload on the department now allows it to put it at the top of the priority list. There are other people than me who are no longer on their hands. I'm asking for some clemency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u169	I suggest that the Secretary of State should now complete his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u170	Mr Van Weyenberg asks with a well-intentioned smile, which I have seen before in this debate with someone else, about cabinet policy in the area of the Vpb. I have just mentioned the en-en policy. That's all in letters. In fact, I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg had, to some extent in the past, also supported the en-en policy. Another question was what I'm going to do about tightening up the substance requirements. I did one thing: I put the options on paper at the request of the Chamber. I said in the letter and the debate at the same time that I do not see much in it, because substance is not the core. The same avoidance structures that you now hang on a mailbox, you could also hang on a substance-rich company. Substance is not the root of what is happening. We've talked about it in detail. So you have to fight treaty abuse. I admit that I meet Mr Groot there; he has a little less confidence in that than I do. The multilateral instrument can help to roll that out very quickly. The other side of the matter is, of course, that if you roll it out quickly, you'll soon find out if it works. I explained this in that letter, and I saw it as my contribution to world peace. However, I have made it clear that I am not actively pursuing an instrument that I do not believe in to that extent. It was fine for an initial phase, it is a long-term approach where the problem is not. I admired Weekers for starting it. Then it helped and caused a certain shift. But that's not the future. We don't need it from the substance requirements. That is not the way; that is my position. In the letter it is about possibilities to do things. That was taken up at the request of the Chamber, but I did leave it at that. Mr Van Weyenberg asked what happened to his motion on the minimum Vpb tariff. That case was lodged with the Commission. The European Parliament has put a similar question to the Commission. The Commission did not then undertake to meet this, because it was felt that this was a matter for the Member States. The Commission has therefore, as it were, asked and answered the question of subsidiarity itself. The motion is there now. It is currently being considered whether the Netherlands could do other things. The fact is that this has in any case been shared with the Commission. Then, not to our question, but to a similar question from the European Parliament, there was an answer from the Commission, which is at least less hopeful for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u171	Good. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We'll continue with the second term of the Chamber. All spokesmen have 1 minute and 40 seconds, so 100 seconds of speaking time. We'll keep it strictly under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. The temptation is great to go into a number of things further, but that is not going to work in 1 minute and 40 seconds. So I'm gonna stick to filing two motions. The first one is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many companies are established in the Netherlands without significant real economic activity, letterboxes, e.g., which are frequently used to avoid tax;]] [[Whereas setting minimum requirements for the level of real economic activity in the Netherlands, the so-called "substance requirements," can make a meaningful contribution to reducing the existence of such companies and to their tax avoidance practices;]] [[whereas a wage-sum criterion is a promising approach;]] [[Whereas in its letter of 4 November 2016, the Secretary of State for Finance outlined a number of options for this purpose at the request of the Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government to elaborate the above options 1, 2 and 3 of the above letter in policy proposals and to inform the Chamber before 1 April,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Groot, Mr Merkies, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Schouten.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u173	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government has appealed against the European Commission's decision on Starbucks;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should give full support to European efforts to combat tax avoidance and illegal state aid to multinationals;]] [[Whereas the Government has already indicated that it has now adopted the method which the European Commission considered appropriate in this Decision;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has already recovered the EUR 25 million in tax revenue in line with the Commission Decision;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the appeal against the Commission decision on Starbucks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u174	Mr. Chairman. First about 2024: now the Secretary of State told me that America has promised and that it can take care of this very quickly. If that is the case, the Netherlands can simply say: we do not have to postpone at all. I certainly don't understand the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State insisted that I use the word "junk" when I was talking about recording the rulings. Then he himself said that it was not so clearly laid down and that the whole process should be reorganised. That's what I call a mess. This also indicates that in fact he does not have an overview of the rulings. I am particularly concerned about that. For this reason, too, I want more openness. At all events, I believe that the public should have a better understanding of the rulings, which have also been the subject of various proposals at European level. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that tax rulings with companies are currently established behind closed doors;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure greater openness on agreements made by the Tax Administration with companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Merkies and Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u175	I can say that I am sorry that the reply to the letter on country-by-country reporting has not yet been received. I hope that this can be done quickly so that we can debate it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u176	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers he gave with a certain agility that is his own. I'm glad he's making some ideas bubbling up about how we can do the audit. I would like to encourage him to do so with this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Dutch Government failed to reach the deadline of 31 December to exchange all OECD rulings and has currently exchanged only 15% of the rulings;]] [[considers that the Netherlands should comply with its international obligations;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 May of:]] [[the number of rulings exchanged at both OECD and EU level;]] [[how many rulings have been adjusted before they have been exchanged (and if adjusted, the reason for adjustment);]] [[whether rulings have been found that are not in accordance with current legislation;]] [[whether rulings have been found that are not in line with current policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u177	One thing: after all the answers I have heard in the many fine phrases, which I have been able to see despite the cough of the Secretary of State, I have not yet been able to find a really convincing reason why only 15% has been exchanged. The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch rulings are exchanged with all OECD and EU countries, such as Romania, Cyprus and Mexico;]] [[noting that the State-General does not have a clear understanding of the rulings issued by the Tax Administration;]] [[calls on the Government to send a proposal to the Chamber before 1 April to improve control of the content of rulings issued,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u178	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State began his speech by saying that a great deal has happened in the last four years in the field of tax avoidance. That's true. Much has happened, but this debate also makes it clear that there is still room for improvement. That's why I'll file my motion first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current corporate tax system has the necessary base narrowers;]] [[Whereas in its report to the Study Group on Sustainable Growth, the Working Group on Taxation has provided a number of basic measures;]] [[Considering that, within the current tax regime, it is more attractive for companies to finance themselves with foreign rather than equity;]] [[Whereas the Koolmees/Nijboer motion (32013, No. 121) was adopted;]] [[Calls on the Government, in the 2018 Tax Plan, to come forward with proposals to broaden the corporate tax base;]] [[calls on the Government to include, in the return of the proceeds, a more balanced tax treatment of equity and debt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25087-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u179	I need to ask a question about this in order to get some clarification. That balanced distribution of equity and debt can also be interpreted in such a way that you want dividends to be deducted. Is that where Mrs. Schouten wants to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u180	No. If you want to make it more balanced, you can do two things. Then you can make one less attractive and the other more attractive. We're asking for both. On the one hand, we are asking for a broadening of the basis. So you have less options to reduce your taxes. That's gonna pay off, too, if it's okay. About what you can do with that money, the ideas are different. One of our aims, which the Chamber has also endorsed, is to make the tax treatment of debt and equity more uniform. You can do this somewhat by making the debt less attractive and the equity a little more attractive. For example, you can also enter an own funds deduction or something like that. That's what the motion is for. I'm not gonna prescribe exactly how we're all gonna do that. I think that should be part of the parliamentary debate, but it is about making proposals in this direction in the Tax Plan 2018. The Secretary of State says: I'll wait and see what happens in the formation. I get that on the one hand. On the other hand, these ideas have been discussed here many times. Motions have already been tabled on this matter. Something has to be done now. That's what this motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u181	That's clear. We also want to see a reduction in interest payments addressed, but since I hear that this is also about the deduction of own funds, I will have to advise my group to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u182	I have mentioned an example. I think I should say to Mr Merkies once again: read the motion as it has been formulated. I don't prescribe how. He asked me for examples. At that time, I said: there is a difference of opinion here. It's about reducing the difference between foreign and equity, to make that move. That's what the motion says. I think Mr Merkies should take a good look at what it says. A second point where more ambition can be shown is on transparency around the rulings. We have talked about this on a number of occasions. That is why I have co-signed Mr Omtzigt's two motions. The Secretary of State has always said here: I have nothing to hide. Therefore, do not be afraid to show that and make sure that there is more action in the area of the exchange of rulings, because if we continue to do so, we are suggesting that there is something going on. The Secretary of State is the first to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u183	Mr. Chairman. This was another important debate. One of the most surprising things was that I heard the Secretary of State say he doesn't understand social democracy. That seems to me to be something that the University of Delft can charge itself as a failure in the programme. I'm coming up on the résumé/e.g. constructions. Is the glass empty or full? I insist that the glass is almost full and that the Chamber has been very effective on that point. At first a date was mentioned in 2024, but it is now gone. There may be some delay, but it has also been clearly stated that the Netherlands is prepared to compromise on this point. This example shows that the Chamber has been very effective. I await the Secretary of State's proposals on the transparency of rulings. I interpret it as an opening. It is very important that this should be made more transparent, but we are waiting for the answer to the question of how this is going to happen. I did not get a clear answer to one question. If there are still bodies rolling out of the closet at the point of the closed rulings, will the Chamber be informed without delay? If all these 13,000 files are reviewed, I do not rule out the possibility that they will happen at any time. Finally, we will follow closely the issue of 'aggressive tax structures'. We will remain behind the cabinet to ensure that the Netherlands opts for a constructive stance on this point, because this is a very important issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u184	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I must say that I have a bit of a sad picture left over from this debate. I am referring to the image that some people have of entrepreneurs and businesses in this country. They are pretending to be all bad guys who make all kinds of weird deals, while those parties are creating a lot of jobs in the Netherlands. That's why we need to cherish them. What is striking is that a lot of measures have been taken. However, the Chamber is a bit like a caterpillar-never-satisfied when Members are calling for further measures to be taken. The VVD believes that we should look very closely at the consequences of the measures so that we can see how the measures that have now been taken are going to work out. This applies not only to the approach to constructions, but also to the impact on employment. We think that is an important point. A lot has been said about the SP's motion on hybrid mismatches. I would remind the Secretary of State once again of the motion on the proposals for hybrid mismatches of third countries, which was adopted in the course of the examination of the Navy Note. In the Lower House, but also in the Upper Chamber, it has been said that they want to draw a yellow card for these proposals. I trust the cabinet will take that into account. Finally, I wish the Secretary of State well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u185	Mr. Chairman. I take it from this debate that Mr Groot wants to draw up a handbook for the University of Delft on what social democracy is. I believe that this manual will consist of two parts: one on what social democrats are doing in practice, and one on what they are doing three months before the elections. Then everyone knows when to look in what part. A lot's happened. I think we can still be positive about that. A lot has been set in motion, which we had long held impossible. But there is still a long way to go, as I say to Mrs De Vries. In my view, we can do just fine to ensure that nothing is put in the way of companies that create real jobs and jobs. But we must do something about the constructions that are also affecting these entrepreneurs. D66 co-signed two motions, one on substance requirements. I would like to thank Mr Grashoff and his previous co-sponsors for the way in which this motion has now been formulated. As far as I am concerned, it is in the words of the Secretary of State and: yes, it is happening internationally, but that does not mean that you do not have to sit still at national level. I wish the Secretary of State one minute to sit on his hands, because he deserves it. The second motion concerns foreign and equity. I really hope that Mr Merkies and Mr Groot will also be able to support this motion, because we must get rid of this imbalance, which is precisely a subsidy to finance ourselves with debt. As far as I am concerned, this should definitely be encouraged if you do something with your own assets. I think that is the right direction. The two motions tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Schouten, which call for more transparency on the rule-making practice, appeal to me, because they maintain the right to secrecy, so that your data will not be on the streets, but also contain an incentive. I had also asked many questions about this to be a little more openness and also a little more transparency and perhaps a little more frequent and regular reporting on how that happens in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u186	The Secretary of State says he can answer immediately. I give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u187	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go over the motions. The Grashoff motion c.s. in piece No. 139 is about substance requirements. We have commented on his predecessor at that point, we have just talked about it and we have discussed it in an earlier AO. I must discourage the motion on those grounds. In the Grashoff/Merkies motion in part No. 140 about Starbucks is a finding that is incorrect. We have, of course, kept to the pronunciation. It went into effect immediately. So the amounts have already been collected. However, we have not switched to a transfer pricing approach that is contrary to the OECD. We didn't. That clarity is more than necessary. I therefore strongly advise against this motion. I would add that the Netherlands will naturally stick to what comes out of this dispute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u188	I quote from the Financial Daily of 18 July 2016: The Dutch authorities have assured the Commission that the outstanding attacks 2015 and 2016 and Starbucks future tax liabilities will be assessed in the manner required by the Commission. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u189	In that case, the Commission considered that we should do so and the Netherlands is sticking to it. But we have not made a square turn and left the OECD ideas behind us. We didn't switch to other methods. That is precisely why clarity is needed here. I honestly think that, whatever we think about rulings or whatever, Mr Grashoff and I should perhaps recognise that at least we both have an interest in getting clarity about what a transfer pricing practice should look like and that, as soon as it is clear, the Netherlands should then stick to it. In this sense, both Mr Grashoff and I, each from a different perspective or perhaps a similar perspective, will benefit from this clarity. That's what the appeal's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u190	This means that different systems are used for different taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u191	The Netherlands adheres to statements. We have also embraced the OECD. We have also given extensive correspondence on this issue. I would like to make a comment from Mr Merkies. I do not think it is appropriate for Mr Merkies to reach a judgment in this way. There is great respect in the direction of Mr Merkies. But I don't think it fits in with the Tax Administration either to get the choice that a Dutch MP, who is always very nuanced, says it would have become a mess. Of course, if there are new requirements for exchange, then you have to adapt the process to that and then you have to redeploy it. That makes sense. The fact that something is not entirely right or should have been clearer is also something that will sometimes be found. In every organization it is sometimes found that it should have been better afterwards. I haven't heard of a mistake, but there might be. But that doesn't make it a mess. I really want to stand up for the people who have worked very hard for years to make this a very good practice. I would like to stand up for the inspectors who have really provided security on the table with all good intentions and the code of conduct. We've always thought that was a great thing. I really don't think the word fits. I am not going to ask Mr Merkies here to take this back or those kind of circuses. I don't think it's right for him, and I'm taking it up here for the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u192	Thank you for the compliment that I am always very nuanced. But I think this time it's right to talk about a mess. The Netherlands is far from achieving that deadline, but agreements have been made on this. It shouldn't be that hard to exchange that, if you have your administration in order. If you just have those rulings, you could share them. Now all this has to be done manually. Something's going on. In fact, the Secretary of State just said that the whole process should be redesigned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u193	That's what I said. If you don't have to exchange them first, but you just have to record them properly, but you also have to exchange them afterwards, that makes other demands for the process. Then you have to redesign the process. There are all kinds of processes within the Tax Administration that are being reorganised, but that certainly does not mean that a lot of processes are a mess. I'm really moving away from this. I don't think it fits Mr Merkies either. Now let me find something we can agree on. That is that there must be a central commitment and that we must do everything we can to ensure that things are properly exchanged, because the Netherlands really wants to keep its agreements on the exchange. We discussed the openness of the rulings extensively. I do not recommend the Merkies/Grashoff motion in part No. 141 over that. The motion-Omtzitt/Schouten in part No. 142 is complicated to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u194	I see that Mr Groot wishes to intervene on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u195	Did I misunderstand the Secretary of State? More openness about rulings, wasn't it about the scope of his entire argument in the first term? There was a need for greater transparency on agreements made by the Tax Administration with companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u196	Let me then discuss the wish to avoid the shadowiness by means of another motion, that of Mr Omtzigt. In the Merkies/Grashoff motion in part No. 141 states: more openness about agreements made by the Tax Administration with companies. It's about individual companies; I'm turning against them. If I say that we must stop the shadowiness by being clearer, it can be about specific constructions on which the Chamber wants to know something, but also about ensuring quality. I am very much in favour of that. But not in this form. I think I've explained that clearly enough. No, not yet, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u197	No, because if I were to use the word "smartness," the Secretary of State would appeal to me. On the contrary, I have left the motion rather general. In fact, I only advocate greater openness about the arrangements made by the Tax Administration with companies. No more and no less. Is the Secretary of State opposed to that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u198	These are open sentences that can mean anything. I'm reading something I don't think we should do. I'll come back later in a way I might take a step. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u199	The Secretary of State continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u200	Can the Secretary of State at least make an argument? I miss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u201	I think that this is too much to do with the disclosure of tax cases and facts about a specific taxpayer. I don't want to make it look like I'm willing to go that way. The motion-Omtzitt/Schouten in part No. 142 is complicated to me. I understand that Mr Omtzigt wants to keep abreast of how many rulings are being exchanged. That's what I promised in the six-month report. That's what I know in April, so that's sooner than in May. After that, it comes every six months. I think that is a very appropriate way of reporting, as I have done in recent reports, including the accompanying explanatory notes. I also replied to Mr Omtzigt's questions that we do not modify or test in the context of this exercise. I should like to comment on the request in the motion for a resolution on item No. 143 on scrutiny, but I think that by converging requests, I have to move the motion in part No. 142 and, at the same time, I can assure Mr Omtzigt that in the six-month reports I will not only comment on the figures, but also give some explanation. We share the view on the importance of what was done in the Omtzigt/Schouten motion in part No. 144 state. It is very important for the Netherlands to be able to be clear about the quality of the rulings, because doubt about them would be detrimental to the Netherlands and to the companies that work with those rulings and that, in accordance with the law, have been given advance security in a legitimate way and do not belong in the defendant's bank. I am in favour of the instrument 'pre-security', which is a great asset in the Netherlands. I am very much in favour of that. I therefore somehow benefit from ensuring that there is maximum control over the content of rulings issued. I keep in mind that there has been an audit recently. I have already said that, as far as I am concerned, it does not have to be the last one and perhaps it could be done in another way. I'm taking this appeal from the Chamber to think about how we can ensure the quality of rulings in a good way. With that interpretation, I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the Schouten/Van Weyenberg motion on part No. 144. Mrs Schouten said earlier, in the Tax Plan, almost more passionately than now: if it is a good idea, why do we not? That is in itself a mentality that I like, but it is very hasty. I have tried to discuss a coherent package with everyone. Then you come a long way for acceptance, but you don't bite right through. It's really too hasty to introduce a very big idea to do that in a tax plan. It is also unrealistic in terms of technology to look at the 2018 Tax Plan. I think the best solution is to stick to the previous commitments on a document that can be used in formation. I believe I have found in various election programmes something of this kind. That should be a fruitful conversation. The intentions appeal very much to me, but here I am asked something that I cannot live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u202	In fact, it seems that we are opposed to each other every debate with something that we both think is a good idea, whereas the Secretary of State is not going to do it. That's a bit of a shame, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u203	He doesn't want that Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u204	It might be more "willing," indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u205	Hey, he never wants anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u206	I will come back to it, but the document that can be used in formation is already there. The Working Party on Taxation has done a very good job. I took inspiration from that last time. The Secretary of State can put a staple through that and send it to the formatter, but that information is already there. There are already motions here that were adopted a year ago. At some point it's really about the execution. That is what is being asked in this motion. I understand from the Secretary of State that he is not so willing in this matter, but well. Then it's up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u207	To turn this into a ready-made bill in such a fundamental area and b. a bill with sufficient support I do not believe in all honesty. I understand the call. The promise is there. This motion, in its present form, with sympathy for Mrs Schouten's sense of reform, must be rejected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-9.u208	This brings us to the end of the second term. The votes on the motions will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the colleagues. We will continue with the next debate in a few minutes.
