ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u1	I welcome the Minister of Finance and give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. In the written consultation, the CDA france drew attention to the signals that in some cases the assessment of interest rate derivatives takes a very long time. As a result of that written consultation, I shall table the following two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the handling of interest rate derivatives files by banks has been delayed again, while it is expected that this will be achieved by 1 July;]] [[noting that some customers' files cannot be handled even in 2017;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for the affected operators to have to wait much longer for their compensation;]] [[calls on the government to make it clear in a discussion with banks and the AFM that further delay is highly undesirable, to press for an acceleration and to get the measures taken to prevent further delay or to achieve acceleration, and to inform the House of Representatives before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31311-188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u3	My second motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the handling of interest rate derivatives files by banks has been delayed again;]] [[noting that the Chamber had previously held a motion (Ronnes et al. 31311, No. 169), which states that vulnerable groups should be given priority in the handling of their files;]] [[Whereas it is not clear how vulnerable groups are given priority and what measures are being taken to ensure that these groups are not affected by the latest delays in handling;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the AFM supervisor and the banks, to pay particular attention to this, including those companies with a derivatives portfolio that were under special management, and to make clear how the previously adopted motion has been and is being implemented;]] [[invites the Government to report to the Chamber within two months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31311-189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. No additional motions on my part following the motions that Mr Ronnes has already tabled. I would like to stress once again that we think it is very important that we clarify quickly for entrepreneurs. Some are really waiting for clarity. I am pleased that the questions raised by the VVD have been answered just before this debate. Perhaps a supplementary question on that. It now seems as if one is holding one another in a sort of grip of fear of sending letters and making decisions. I would like another response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you. Can the Minister respond immediately? That's the case. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. I'll get the motions, I hope, because I don't have them yet. Firstly, I share the disappointment of the honourable Members that it may not be possible for all customers to make a recovery offer this year. Well, that was our way of thinking. As you know, there has already been a great deal of delay because mistakes have been made in the design and settlement of the process, so that we had to start again de facto. It is now clear from the implementation of the recovery framework, which now lays down very precisely how a re-evaluation should be carried out and when compensation should be made, that new questions should be asked to the experts who drew up that framework on the basis of individual cases. They then respond, with more guidance and more specific answers in all kinds of individual cases. This means that the restoration framework is becoming more and more complete in its direction, but it also, of course, leads to delays. One has to wait for answers on how to see it. So I share that disappointment. I consider the motion tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mrs De Vries on item No. 188 in support of my approach and the intention to continue to put pressure on the sector to do so as soon as possible. I'll add that I'm not going to intervene in the trial again. That would only lead to further delays, but we will, of course, see if it can be done faster and where it can be done faster. I shall leave this motion to the Chamber and will also send it to the parties concerned on behalf of the Chamber: everything must be done to ensure that it is clear quickly and with care. The motion in part No. 189 is specifically about giving priority to vulnerable groups. That has been established and agreed on the basis of an earlier motion. The experts who drew up the recovery framework also indicated that vulnerable groups should be the first to be assessed by banks. It also indicates who should be considered vulnerable. The banks have undertaken to take additional measures, such as the granting of an advance, so that vulnerable customers do not suffer during the treatment. That motion set this in motion. We've now established how to do that. This has been promised and is also guarded. In line with that, it has to be done. The second motion by Mr Ronnes and Mrs De Vries is therefore strictly superfluous, because the previous motion was simply very powerful and clear. It also gives clear instructions to all concerned to give priority to vulnerable customers and to help them wherever possible during the process and to give them an advance in advance. My assessment of the second motion is therefore that it is superfluous, especially since Mr Ronnes' previous motion was ready to go. It has been adopted and is a guide to how we deal with vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u7	In his response to the second motion, the Minister states that it is actually in line with the previous motion and that it is actually superfluous. But the second motion goes a little further: it actually calls on the government to make it clear how banks deal with it. I would therefore ask the Minister to take a look at that and perhaps come to a reconsideration. Is he prepared to inform us of how banks dealt with this commitment? In fact, we are still getting signals that this would not be entirely good and that companies would fall outside the framework at the stage when they were in particular managed and forced into bankruptcy. That is why the motion specifically asks the government to show how banks deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u8	I would like to make another proposal on this point. The recovery framework is very clear. It defines the vulnerable groups and sets out what should be done with them, as a priority, and how to deal with them in acute situations. I can write that down again for Mr Ronnes, but I don't think it makes any sense, because he knows the recovery framework; the Chamber has already had that from me. Mr Ronnes says that there are cases that are nevertheless in trouble or are in trouble. Then it might be more convenient to lay down an inner line about that individual casuism, so to speak. In this way, we can switch directly with the AFM and the banks involved and we can say that we are getting signals that things are not going well within the category of vulnerable groups. The confidentiality and privacy of data subjects must of course be respected. That's a much better and more effective way of helping people than I'm gonna write down how it's done now. Mid-term evaluation doesn't make any sense to me either. I want our energy now to go towards rolling out the recovery framework as quickly as possible and providing clarity to entrepreneurs. If Mr Ronnes wants a mid-term evaluation, I will tell him: I am really going to keep that from happening; I am not going to do that. We've set out exactly how to do it, and I'm going to put energy into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u9	Finally, Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u10	That is a pity, because I would have liked to see a mid-term review of whether the process that we started, or rather that the banks started with their clients, is going according to the recovery framework. I hear the Minister saying that he is not actually prepared to devote energy to this at the moment and that he thinks that this is actually unnecessary at the moment. I will have a word with my co-author of the motion on whether we will maintain it or look at the option put forward by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr Ronnes is now putting it a little more sharply and negatively than I have done. My only point is that it is much more effective and that we are much better at helping those involved if we can communicate through the inner line that we are getting signals that things are not going well with Entrepreneur A, B or C and that we must pay attention to this. That is really much more effective than that I am going to evaluate in general how the vulnerable groups are doing and whether the banks are handling them properly. I find this unfocused, while our common objective is to implement this recovery framework as quickly as possible, with priority being given to vulnerable groups. Finally. The first progress report on the implementation of the recovery framework will be delivered at the end of this month. In addition, specific attention will be given to vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u12	You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u13	There is one more question from Mrs De Vries. She expressed the fear that there would be a grip of fear, which is perhaps a strange formulation. I do not think this is the case, but it is done with great care because everyone has learned from the earlier stage of this process. We can judge quickly and clarify quickly, but if we later find that we misunderstood the recovery framework, misunderstood it or had to calculate differently, then we have to do it again. I sincerely do not believe that there is a kind of crippling fear in the banks; not at all. People like it. People are investing, too. People are being made free again and again to do this quickly. People are very keen to leave this behind in a way that fits the recovery framework. That's really the intention. That's how the banks are now. As far as that is concerned, you will hear no ill words from me about all those involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u14	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-9.u15	We are going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
