ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-6.u1	Before we start voting, we are considering the natural violence that hit the Caribbean part of the Kingdom last week. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, and the Deputy Minister of Saint Martin, Henrietta Doran-York. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand, if possible. We have all seen the images of the enormous havoc that Hurricane Irma has caused on Saba, Saint-Eustatius and especially on Saint-Maarten. Despite the glimmer of hope that the hurricane would lose power or change direction at the last moment, the Upper Wind Islands have overcome the heaviest hurricane in history. During the storm itself, many people must have had very, very scary moments, especially when the electricity went out and there was no contact with the outside world. How badly the beautiful Sint-Maarten, Saba and Saint-Eustatius have been hit, it becomes clear now that the storm is overwhelmed. Houses, roads, ports, airports, schools and hospitals are damaged or even completely destroyed. There is little left of many nature reserves. The disarray is great. Many residents are still without electricity, broken houses and lack of food and drinking water. Communication is difficult. On St.Maarten it remains very restless, and in some places even grim, although fortunately the situation is better than it was. We do not know all the details yet, but it is clear that, in addition to all the material damage, there have been four fatalities and many injuries. For the Antillean community in the Netherlands it must be a difficult period. Here and look at the images of the havoc and disturbances, without knowing how your family and friends are doing on your beloved island. That should give us a sense of powerlessness. Fortunately, people are taking action everywhere in the Netherlands to help the people on St.Maarten with money, clothing and food. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I have informed the States of St.Maarten and the island councils of Saba and St.Eustatius that we are deeply sympathetic to them. Although 7,000 kilometres of water and land lie between us, we feel closely connected to the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. His Majesty the King is currently on the islands to talk to the residents and show our involvement. It will take time and strength, but we hope that St.Maarten, Saba and St.Eustatius will recover after this extreme nature violence. We wish them much strength in the coming days and months in recovery and reconstruction. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-6.u2	Madam President. An eyewitness described Hurricane Irma as "the cruelest monster that ever passed." As far as I am concerned, this is all about the ruthless ordeal that the Caribbean part of our Kingdom had to endure last week. Irma has caused a trail of destruction. Saba, Saint-Eustatius and above all Saint-Maarten have been graciously hit hard. These beautiful islands, which we know as oases of green, white beaches and hell blue water, have changed beyond recognition. Public buildings, houses and infrastructure have been destroyed, trees ripped out of the ground and there is havoc everywhere. Lives are literally and figuratively in ruins. There are four deaths on Saint Martin and dozens of victims have been killed throughout the region. The inhabitants of the islands have been in distress for hours. During the storm they had to fear for their lives, and they saw their possessions and their homes lost. "Everything around us came down, collapsed," said a resident. "I thought we were gonna die." It's words that show how great the disarray is when all the normal certainties are eating, a roof over your head, running water suddenly aren't there anymore. I have said it a number of times over the last few days: the Netherlands does not abandon Sint-Maarten. The King and Minister Plasterk are currently in the disaster area to talk to people, provide support and see what help is needed. We stand alongside our Kingdomies and do everything we can to provide the urgent emergency aid that is needed and to ensure that it becomes somewhat habitable for the inhabitants of the island as soon as possible. And safe, because looting and violence are completely unacceptable. The Netherlands is in solidarity, as you said, Madam President. There is much given on giro number 5125 of the Red Cross. I call on everyone to keep doing this. I would also like to express my great respect and gratitude for the soldiers and aid workers who have worked very hard over the last few days to help as many people as possible and who will continue to do so in the near future. I would also like to thank Curaçao and Aruba, with which we work intensively in these difficult days for the Kingdom. It will be a long time before life on the islands has recovered somewhat and is as before. The inhabitants of Saint Martin, Saba and Statia will have to rebuild their lives, and we will help them. Our thoughts today are with the victims, the wounded, the next of kin and with everyone affected by this enormous natural violence. On behalf of the cabinet, I wish everyone a great deal of strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. I would ask you all to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-6.u4	I will suspend the sitting for a few moments so that you can convey your condolences to the authorized Minister of Saint Martin.
