ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for external trade and development cooperation. I would like to welcome the Foreign Trade Minister once again. Today, the first term of office of the government is on the agenda. The Minister is therefore going to answer the questions put by Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my enthusiasm I was here too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	Very good!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	But it may be a reflection of my commitment and the extent to which I would like to have these discussions with you and the Chamber and, of course, to arrive at effective solutions jointly through dialogue. Because this is what it's all about in the end. We are looking for a long-term vision through conversation, a pragmatic approach, but also, of course, a proactive attitude, attitude and implementation when it comes to the combined agenda and portfolio of aid and trade with investment. Mr. Chairman. It's an exciting time in the world. That is, of course, a euphemism. There are many challenges, but there are also huge opportunities, with responsibility as they have been appointed in different ways by the members of this Chamber. It also requires deepening and acceleration if we are to achieve our ambitious goals together in a world in flux, where much change will take place. Most of the dramas may be unprecedented, but all the possibilities of transforming, transforming and investing in them are also there. I look forward to doing this together with Dutch politics, the House of Representatives, the First Chamber and civil society.The Netherlands is so committed to so many of the issues we are discussing today, but of course also with the knowledge centres, famous in their own country, but also famous abroad, business, NGOs and also the Dutch citizen, young and old, because everyone in the country we are has an opinion, has a vision and I like to hear that. What do we know in today's world? On the one hand, we can paint an image, based on recent statistics, of economic growth if you take it globally. We also see that more and more middle-income countries are emerging and a new middle-class in many countries that used to be just the poor. But we also know that there is a downside, a dark downside to this story. There is a continuity, unfortunately, of old, still unresolved problems, more and more now mixed with conflicts, new conflicts, citizens suffering from the consequences of climate change, certainly deterioration, without having the means to deal effectively with them. The story of adaptation and mitigation, of course. We are also seeing new asymmetrical conflicts. I only have to mention the Middle East when we look at Syria or Yemen. There are geopolitical tensions everywhere, and all facets of migration, whether legal, illegal, irregular, but also, of course, a special category: refugees in accordance with the Refugee Convention. But two choices are already clear and clear. And we made it as the Netherlands in 2015. We have signed the sustainable development goals, SDGs, Sustainable Development Goals. This is an international agreement, in which each country finds itself. Of course, we have achieved a great deal: we can, of course, always offer progress ourselves. But I am talking about the SDGs that are also relevant to all those other countries that expect some of our cooperation. The SDGs are also relevant to the other theme that I want to look at through help and trade. This is prevention: prevention of conflicts, prevention of the consequences of climate change, prevention of everything else that can go wrong, but also prevention by investing in another world, where shared prosperity also means shared security and shared opportunities, especially for the Netherlands, the Dutch citizen of today and our youth, the future. As you all know, the SDGs form a global framework. I was very happy that so many MPs said they were adoptive parents or adopted an SDG. I also went to see who took SDG 17. That's Bram van Ojik, member of this Chamber. SDG 17 also represents what we can all do together in terms of funding: private sector, civil society, knowledge centres and all countries, but above all in terms of innovation. I will come back to that later, also in the answer via the cubes. When we look back at the themes that control the news, I always come back to the SDGs, the central guiding framework and the importance of prevention, and if we only look at conflict and migration as themes, our focus should focus on root causes, as has also been clearly stated in the coalition agreement. The root causes are, of course, inequality, the consequences of population growth, disproportionate population growth, especially in those countries that do not have the capacity to channel that well, poor governance, instability and consequences of climate change. Many of your members have rightly concentrated on the continent of Africa and sub-Saharan Africa. As you have already pointed out, it is precisely in that continent, in those countries but also elsewhere, that young people do not see a perspective, have no chance of relevant education, if they are allowed to go to school and continue, and have absolutely no connection to what the labour market can offer. There is also little economic growth. The consequences of climate change, of course, are often the most severe in these countries. MP Diks quite rightly pointed to another dilemma, a symptom that is perhaps even worse: drought. But of course we can do more. Natural resources, especially in those countries, become sources of power, sources of future conflict, sources of exclusion or sources of survival. This only stimulates other future conflicts even more. Climate change and population growth are an additional ingredient in a toxic mix of poverty and lack of work and education. Those themes have been mentioned by all of you in your interventions. I would like to highlight one recent UNDP report, which has also co-financed the Netherlands. It's called Journey to Extreme in Africa. This brings us back to a point in the coalition agreement: terror or extremism. Lack of education, job opportunities, opportunities for inclusive society and participation in it can also be part of radicalisation and forms of violent extremism. This report therefore highlights the crucial role of good governance, which you, of course, also see in the memorandum on human rights, and highlights the importance of leaving it at the heart of human rights, including and even in the fight against extremism and terror. Human rights are also at the heart of this government. In my policy and in our collaborations, we will always find that connection, just as it suits the Netherlands. But as I said, the international community has an answer to the dilemmas and problems I have just outlined. Last September, Prime Minister Rutte in New York already referred to the sustainable development goals as "the ultimate prevention agenda," and rightly so, just as you look at the costs and benefits of armed conflict. According to the Institute for Economics and Peace, there is a calculation that an investment of €1 in prevention now, as we know, prevention is often the child of the account, because you don't want to pay for what you don't see; we often see that in other areas too, we save €16 in reconstruction costs later and often over a longer term. Then we have not even calculated the consequences of conflicts at the human level. A young person who finds work is a young person who will later feel less quickly called or professions to join a violent group, whether by recruitment or by conviction. This is a reason for this cabinet to help cover up risks for businesses, to invest in fragile states and to dare operate there. Opportunity to work is not only an opportunity for the Netherlands, but also an opportunity for the younger one there. It has a stabilising effect, but it's long-term, so we always have to think beyond one year. Look also at our policy on sexual and reproductive health and rights, which Mrs Van den Hul and other members of this Chamber rightly called for. At the end of the journey, every euro spent on contraception, sexual education and other forms of explanatory statement will generate an average of €120 in savings. The cost-benefit analysis is always made. The taxpayers' money is precise, expensive and dear to us. We deal with this very carefully, including internationally. For these reasons alone, the Cabinet opts for a comprehensive coherent approach to poverty reduction, but also for building inclusive economic growth, based on a rule of law. In recent years, Dutch policy has been in line with the ambitions of the international community's goals in the UN. As I said at the beginning, it is my ambition to deepen this commitment, to accelerate it and to be able to move forward towards the 2020-2030 period. The Netherlands' response to the growing instability that we see around us and also in the ring of Europe is therefore an integrated approach across the full breadth of foreign policy, with Defence, Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade, Development Cooperation and Climate. So we are constantly looking for cooperation. We do this within our own country, but also internationally, to achieve the desired results. Madam President. I fully agree with Mrs Becker's proactive trade agenda. The Netherlands is a small, open trading nation. We are very intertwined, dependent and connected to the rest of the world. We earn almost a third of our income abroad................................................................................................................................................................................................ A further 1.3 million jobs depend on the location of foreign companies in the Netherlands and their continuity. We have a very strong international position. Our economy is growing strongly. We score excellently on structural aspects such as education and accessibility, but also on innovation policy. For this, we need only look at investigations from the World Economic Forum, the OECD or other sources. However, the pressure on the international trading system, based on protectionist tendencies, directly affects us. Unfortunately, geopolitical tensions and possible stagnation in the implementation or negotiation of trade agreements also reduce confidence in the effectiveness and role of multilateral institutions and processes. We feel this directly in our own wallet. We, as the Dutch Government, are therefore committed to turning this tide, wherever it is in the world. This is also the connection I make to the Dutch citizen, young or old. My firm belief is that protectionism is the wrong answer to the trends we are seeing. The path of global cooperation is, because of its cross-border opportunities, but also threats, a form of preventive investment, cooperation and resolution. It is also the means for the Netherlands to offer the opportunities that Dutch small and medium-sized enterprises, large companies and individuals are asking for. We have already tested solutions in our own country. We have to offer this to other countries, on a commercial basis or in a partnership, in which we are dealing with a tripartite trade, development and profit relationship for Dutch business. We are world leaders in water management, agriculture and wind energy. And that's where the odds lie. But I do not want to list all the branches of Dutch business that are now profitable, but, above all, look to the future. Technology, innovation, daring to try with risk: that is very specific to the Dutchman. Global cooperation is important in this respect. It also offers opportunities for investment, through investment protection. This is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is a dynamic sector. There is also the engine of our economy, but these companies often run into barriers because they want to become active outside the European Union and remain successful. That's too bad. It's actually a shame. I will not add another word. It is a pity, because that is where the greatest growth opportunities lie. Digitalisation and better trade agreements, also based on sustainability, can significantly reduce barriers and open the way to unprecedented opportunities, which are not only good for the Netherlands but also for other countries and citizens in those countries. I have therefore listened with great interest to Mr Amhaouch's speech. I say to him that the active commitment of the European Union to trade agreements with Canada, Japan, Mercosur, Australia and New Zealand, supports the treaties that are now on our way. But I also agree with Mr Bouali that we need to measure modern trade agreements against our standards, especially in the area of international corporate social responsibility. In this context, Mrs van den Hul also insisted on the continuation of the agreement approach, and I know that she is not only in it to agree on sustainable business with sectors. My predecessor set this in motion. It is an excellent policy, and I will continue to do so. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, investment in the field of broader foreign policy has been lagging behind. The cabinet reverses that trend and invests extra. For example, there will be new posts abroad, an additional 1.5 billion will be invested in defence and around 400 million will be allocated from the so-called ODA funds for this cabinet period per year. Of course, you want to know how I'm going to spend this and you've asked a lot of questions about that. Before I turn to the blocks and the questions, I note that I have sent a letter of amendment to make investments that cannot wait now. 140 million is for emergency aid and 50 million is intended as a structural contribution to the reception of refugees in the region. You have rightly asked questions about the future, the policy. I'm asking you to give me a moment of time. In spring, I would like to present a new policy paper in which I would not just like to address the commitment, the links and the relevance of the aid and trade agenda with investment. I would also like to look at the centrality of the development goals but also, of course, at the Agenda Invest Netherlands, the sustainable response to the sectors we are strong in, the spearheads, the climate and a further anchoring of our policies on gender through the policy of SRGR. Other and new forms of international cooperation will also be considered. Development cooperation is actually an older word. To the member Van Ojik I have appointed him before I say that SDG 17 is a central theme in everything we do but above all how we do it. This cooperation is about dealing with root causes of problems. This will contribute to stability, shared security and the creation and maintenance of the rule of law, but these are always basic conditions. The Netherlands thus assumes its responsibility as a prosperous country in the world, together with the world. So I also hear you very well, Mrs Van Weerdenburg, where you are asking to be able to explain the results achieved better and differently, to give the critical citizen a better explanation and to show the results. This is a very clear story, but we have to accept that if the message does not come across, we need to communicate differently and even better. Moreover, of course, we must always be able to measure what we are doing, because it is about tax money. Then my final point of introduction. The famous Princeton economist Dani Rodrik was recently in the Netherlands, I spoke briefly to him. He sketched three scenarios for the future and named them after the old spaghetti western "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly." Many of you may not have seen it, but it's an old movie. It is about the collapse of international markets; "the Ugly" is about increasing protectionism and "the Good" is a reorientation towards inclusive globalisation, linking trade and investment with sustainability and a fair playing field, in which Dutch companies can also develop their full potential. The policy paper will take a few months, I fear, because we would like to talk to you, to the knowledge centres and to our national and international partners, not only to take a look at the future, but also to put on an operationally effective workable agenda, where you all feel that the tax money is also well spent by the Netherlands in an unstable world in which we make our contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	I have here an overview of the issues that you would like to address later, but the Members of Parliament do not have that overview. Perhaps it would be a good idea for the Chamber to share in how your speech is built.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	Absolutely, thank you. That's what I wanted to do right now. I now turn to the cubes, specifically following questions that have been asked or themes that have been appointed by Members of Parliament. There are 13 of them, which I will go through briefly or for a long time. If you'll allow me, I'll mention them. The first concerns the coalition agreement and the letters of amendment. I have just referred to it briefly. The second is humanitarian aid and the third is reception in the region. Theme four, block four is about the root causes. Block five is about sexual and reproductive health and rights, block six is about women's rights and block seven is about climate and agriculture. The eighth block is, once again, about the SDGs, also at national level Number nine is effectiveness, measureability and choice of partners and number ten proactive and progressive trade agenda. For the record, this is obviously not a ranking, it is a numbering. Number eleven is trade promotion in cooperation with the private sector, number twelve financing services.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	What was your question? Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	I heard the Minister say at the beginning that she fully agrees with the VVD that there should be a proactive trade agenda. Then I couldn't wait to get on with that, but I just heard that the minister will come back to it in the cube. So I'm just gonna wait and see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	Fine. Mrs. Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	I also had two questions, but one fits in the block; so I leave it out. I would just like to comment on the Minister's remark that she needs to explain it better, 'we need to explain the policy better, because that is why a large part of the population does not agree with it'. Does the Minister also have the impression that I may not fully understand it and therefore disagree with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	No, I'm not. Otherwise, you'll translate what I said. I take responsibility for the fact that always when people disagree with policies, we have a responsibility to produce the results in another way. For example, you did not say literally yesterday, but the bottom line is that people do not really believe in the purpose and effectiveness of development cooperation. Internationally, many countries, including the UK, have been talking for a long time about the real gap between citizens and government. We must explain to the public the choices that the government or politics often make differently and better. For something that is often far from your bed, literally, that is more difficult. If we build a dike somewhere in the Netherlands, as a citizen you can always take the train or take the bike and say "I'm going to look at it myself, gosh, that makes a difference." When we say in our report on the basis of fifteen indicators that it is absolutely great in Ghana and that this and that has happened, it is much further as a story and that makes it much easier to think that it is not your problem. In any case, I see it as my responsibility. I don't necessarily expect a change of heart. As my responsibility, that is also international, it is part of the agreements about the SDGs, to go there differently and not to tell our own story, but to think exactly: "Where do the questions come from, is there a bridge possible and what do we lay down as a result?'. We often also see in different sondages or opinion polls that there is a difference in age categories. Youth is often different from people of a different age. There are a lot of possibilities. I am merely saying that we can be much more open, also in order, hopefully, to re-establish public support and also to get good ideas. Because the idea lies in criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	I am pleased to hear that the Minister and I agree that the current OS policy should be clearer for the citizen. If we deal with this together, and it turns out that a third of the Dutch still do not see it, is the Minister prepared to discuss the right of existence of the current OS policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	The right of OS to exist is clear. It's Dutch policy, it's also in the coalition agreement. For a reason, a change has been chosen for reason of peace, security, investment, the role that the Netherlands plays internationally, for which we stand as a city, as The Hague alone, and where we stand internationally. The business case of investment and development cooperation has been made very hard by both the private sector and the public sector. We don't always have to agree with everyone. There are elections for that too. But I'm going to implement policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you to the Minister for the introduction. She cited an innovative economist. I'm always very much in favour of looking at new thinkers. In that light, I was wondering whether she also likes the innovative economist Kate Raworth, who says that perhaps we should become a little more agnostic in that sacred belief in economic growth and that we should move towards a model based on meeting the needs of the planet's resources. Is that something the Minister would like to hear?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	I'm not an economist. I did quote an economist because I had spoken to him, so I understood what he was saying, but I can't say yes or no on the basis of a quote. Sustainability and otherwise dealing with the limited planetary resources that have been allocated to us, not for this generation but for future generations, is very central in the Sustainable Development Goals. But I'd like to find the economist first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. I'm sure we'll get to talk about this more often. I ask this because there is a growing group of economists pointing to the ecological deficit. That's 40% a year by now. In addition, the financial budget deficits are palening. In this respect, I would like to exchange views with this Minister in the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u19	I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u20	I'm gonna hook up a little bit on what Mrs. Ouwehand says. The minister quotes Dani Rodrik. It's a good thing she got the right economist. He says: we need not regret that the trade agreements are dead. We are wasting a lot of political capital on very little economic profit. That is another sensible language, I would say! He mentions a large part of the trade agreements that we now have a lobby of companies. And, of course, that's basically what it is. My question to the Minister is this. Does she think, in line with what Dani Rodrik says, that when it comes to international trade we should not only look at the rights and protection of investors but also firmly anchor the interests of sustainability and human rights and not just keep them non-binding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u21	I'll come back to that later in the block about that, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u23	I will try to follow my order, but of course I can also change it. First of all, I would like to return to the coalition agreement and the letters of amendment. As stated earlier, also in my letter, the ODA budget has had to do with cuts. This cabinet has deliberately chosen to break this trend and invest in international cooperation. Mr Kuzu and others noted that the Netherlands did not reach 0.7%, as also mentioned in the Grashoff motion. That is true, but what I would like to say is that without the investments of this cabinet, 1.8 billion in total, the budget would have been much lower in the coming years. You know the background, namely the cost of receiving asylum seekers in the Netherlands in the first year and coming years. The cabinet corrects the cash slides of previous years that have caused a dip and an additional EUR 1 billion will be added to the ODA budget in the coming years. So in this cabinet period there is, as you know, 400 million extra per year available. How is this first published? Some expenses can't wait. That is why I sent the letter of amendment to this Chamber last week for urgent expenditure, based in particular on emergency aid and reception in the region. As you know, this is a figure of 190 million. Our partners who provide humanitarian aid with Dutch funding really need to know where they stand at the beginning of 2018. This is a very critical phase in the year in every country where emergency humanitarian aid is given. As you know, humanitarian aid is not just about goods but also about people providing services. We want to remain a reliable and predictable donor. By releasing the emergency aid budget now, we can give an indication to the humanitarian organisations of what we intend to do. This also applies, for example, to the Dutch NGOs united in the Dutch Relief Alliance, but also to the UN and the Red Cross. In this way, there will also be room for contributions to specific long-term crises. As you know, in January 2018, and annually during that period, the UN is calling for early funding commitments to operate in Yemen, Iraq, Syria and region and the Democratic Republic of Congo. In Yemen, moreover, there is now a risk of diphtheria on top of cholera and on top of the famine to which many children are exposed. Mrs Becker asked how we are going to spend the resources for emergency aid. In accordance with the standard process, I will inform the Chamber in January of next year, so early, about the details of the deployment of the total emergency budget 2018. The starting point is and will continue to be that it will be contributions to organisations that were also allowed to receive in 2017, but we always adapt. We can always reevaluate, for example, the channel choice. We are not necessarily choosing the organisation, but we are looking at who will best use the resources against the crisis to which we want to respond and who has demonstrated expertise and effectiveness there. So it's a very rational choice. In order to increase the impact, emergency aid policy must also respond to innovations. For example, I am very interested in accessing new sources of funding. We also paid a study together with other donors, including Belgium, to have the International Committee of the Red Cross issue a Humanitarian Impact Union. This means that the private sector invests and the public sector only pays the companies if the result is achieved. This is an area of innovation where work is being done and costs may be reduced, but there is also a different source of funding than traditional public funds that are never sufficient, especially in the case of chronic humanitarian crises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u24	Do I understand that the Minister, in reply to my question whether it would be possible to indicate to the Chamber before 1 December the breakdown of the funds announced in her letter of amendment, says that this is not going to work and that it will be January?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u25	In principle, it is better to see all the resources together for the whole budget. We always do that in January. That's the standard process. In this case, I think this would also be useful, because it would allow us to look at the totality of expenditure and channel choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mrs. Becker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u27	However, before the democratic process in this House: that means that the Chamber will not receive this information until we have adopted the budget for next year. I can imagine that there can be no detailed overall overview, but is it possible to clarify the direction in which these funds are spent by the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u28	I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u29	The minister called Yemen. There is a humanitarian disaster going on, which is largely caused by a blockade that is currently taking place, particularly under the influence of Saudi Arabia. This means that humanitarian aid cannot reach the people. Is the Minister prepared to condemn this blockade?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u30	Of course, we have an integrated policy in many areas. The Netherlands does this in EU consultations. There have been many attempts within the EU, in Brussels, with prominent Member States themselves involved in some processes, to make a statement. As you know, Commissioner Stylianides made a statement earlier in November and expressed his deep concern. There are some quieter diplomatic channels going on. I contacted the Special Envoy myself, Ismail Ould Cheikh. I spoke to him two days ago. He has requested that some more time be given to diplomacy. I think that's very important. In the meantime, of course, we are working very carefully, including with our contacts in Brussels, to ensure that there is ideally EU consensus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u31	I do not hear a conviction in that, which would be necessary if you consider that almost a million people have been infected with cholera in the meantime. Then how does the Minister look at the news yesterday that hundreds of aid workers or the country can't get in or out of the country and can't help the people who need it so badly? We have to decide whether humanitarian aid money is going to Yemen. We cannot do that when the government is not prepared to condemn the violence and the blockade that is taking place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u32	I think you're mixing two things. I have explained to you what the political process is like at the moment, and I have reached out to the UN at a high level. We have, of course, also expressed our great concern and asked how we, as the Netherlands, could possibly be more helpful. The request was: not yet. If we want to support the UN in the negotiation process and in the implementation of humanitarian aid, I think we can have a clear line in that. We can't always do that in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u33	This has been discussed extensively in the Foreign Affairs budget. That's what was inserted from the SP back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u34	Then I don't need to talk any further. The second point, the access of humanitarian aid workers, I would like to emphasise. This access is a humanitarian imperative and is also in accordance with the Geneva Conventions. That statement is internationally unanimous. The sg himself and others are directly involved. Of course, it's a matter of concern. Is it a reason not to finance humanitarian aid to Yemen? Absolutely not. I have had the point of new sources of funding. Then I'd like to move on to care in the region. As you know, more than 80% of refugees are received in the region of origin. This is not new; it has been so for many years. Uganda, for example, is a country that often does not make it in the media, but that houses and receives refugees all the longer. Reception is now increasingly taking place in villages and cities in an informal and often messy organised way, rather than in the refugee camps that we often see in our own images. That's not true. Humanitarian aid is not sufficient, as this Chamber knows, and is not financially sustainable in the long term, either for the recipient country or for the refugees themselves. Long-term reception of large numbers of refugees requires a different approach from emergency aid. Support is needed for reliance, as clearly indicated in the government agreement by mentioning reception in the region as an important point, but support is also needed for host communities, for example in Jordan and Lebanon, which receive large numbers of refugees. As you know, one in three people now living in Lebanon is a refugee. That is almost unimaginable in other countries. The previous cabinet has therefore also invested generously in the region of Syria. This was occasional money, and through the letter of amendment I increase the budget for 2018 by EUR 50 million for reception in the region. We also want to increase support for education in crisis situations as soon as possible, so that from summer onwards more refugee children can go to school in the Horn of Africa and the Syrian region. Staying in school and going to school, and actually leaving school with a degree, is, of course, a way of long-term investment. Emergency aid, care in the region and a new view of the importance of education in crisis and non-crisis situations are very important to me. I would also like to discuss with you in the future how we can revive that debate. Some of you have spoken about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u35	Good thing we're talking about Lebanon, a country that's almost on fire when it comes to the administration there. The Minister himself lived there. I'm curious about her vision. We have drawn attention to the refugee children in the coalition agreement. But when I speak to the children there, they say: we can't go to school, because our parents barely have enough money to pay for the living. We have also discussed the work permits that the Lebanese Government could issue. That's very sensitive, I know. But what is the Minister's view of these work permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u36	Frankly, it is not so much a vision as it is, as you know, something that is already an agreement with the Lebanese Government, made at the London conference in 2016 and the Brussels conference in 2017. It is less a vision than giving a situationchettes of the state of affairs now. As you know, as the President knows, it has proved very difficult. It is about unemployment in the Lebanese labour market itself. It is a political fear to perpetuate the long-term presence of refugees. The host country is afraid of this, partly in view of the fact that Palestinian refugees have been in Lebanon for seven decades; for the record, Lebanese politicians always point out this. This has an unfortunate connotation in the Lebanese political context. But investments have been made. The Netherlands itself invests through the World Bank's concessional loan facility to manage employment in Lebanon and create jobs for those Lebanese who feel excluded from the labour market and see a job-moving effect of the presence of Syrian refugees. We're committed to job creation. We want to invest in certain sectors, but we also ask that the Lebanese Government issue a number of work permits. It has proved to be a slow process. The political crisis that Lebanon is now experiencing does not improve the negotiating opportunities of the international community. I think we should be honest about that. But Prime Minister Hariri's government remains committed to the trial. There are more Syrian refugees at work, there are more children at school and the current Minister of Education is also keen to have as many children as possible at school by the summer. This simply requires investment, capacity, teachers, school places and, of course, everything that happens around them. Employment, the opportunity to work, is extremely important to offer perspective. This is the best prevention of irregular migration methods that we can come up with, but it must also be thorough work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u37	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u38	I don't need to stir things up with the Minister, because the passion speaks out of her words. The problem is indeed in those work permits and expanding those three sectors in which refugees are allowed to work now, and in the urge already there is to push refugees back to Syria. Does the Minister recognize that? What could the international community, the Netherlands and the European Commission do to bring about reconstruction and to prevent people from being pushed back to areas in Syria that are still really unsafe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u39	If Mr Voordewind understands correctly, his first question is about reconstruction in Syria. Mind if I ask you specifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u40	Very briefly, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u41	The question consisted of two parts. I asked about the reconstruction in Syria, but I also asked how we would prevent people from being pushed back from Lebanon to Syria against their will, the non-refoulement principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u42	That's the downside of a long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u43	On the last point, I think the treaty is very clear. Although Lebanon has not signed the Refugee Convention, it does in practice adhere to many of the characteristics of the Convention. It is also very important that I believe that the UNHCR and the UN Secretary-General can give the right direction here. So far, the European Union, including the Netherlands, has followed the advice of the UN. The UN itself has always stated that the situation is not yet ripe for early return. A decision on investment in reconstruction will have to be considered by the whole government. That can be looked at over the next few months, but I would not like to comment on it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u44	I am very pleased to hear that the Minister pays particular attention to refugee children. That is a very important issue. We are now seeing in the Middle East, where we now also have a number of focus countries, poignant cases of families being pulled apart. Mr Voordewind mentioned Serious Request yesterday. In the past, the government often doubled the contribution of Serious Request, which is widely supported in the Netherlands by the population. Does the Minister see any possibility of supporting or otherwise doing something in this area? I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u45	I want to take a serious look at what is actually a social initiative and can also strengthen public support. An example like Serious Request is incredibly beautiful. I am still very moved by the fact that people want to record such themes and want to spend individual time and effort on them, so I would like to come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u46	Good thing the government is paying extra attention to reception in the region. That's what it takes. It should have been harder in the past, but it's good that it's happening. What I'm a little afraid of is that the focus on the new focus countries is at the expense of the existing partnerships in Africa. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is intended to continue the existing partnerships, because there has been a lot of investment in them and we have little in relation to the past, or whether countries are going to fall off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u47	I am given the opportunity to make a leap forward and perhaps to buy some time in the collective interest. The explicit mention in the government agreement of reception in the region is not a question of or-or. When reviewing the policy, we will look at the priorities and how to implement the themes that are hidden within the heading of "fundamental causes," such as poverty, poor governance, corruption, lack of employment and failing education. We often talk about failing education systems. If there are schools, then what you learn in school is not enough. In the labour market, the skills that have been or should have been learned are still not available. In this context, we want to look at the aid-trade gendaan and the priorities for the Netherlands from the SDGs. In international cooperation and development cooperation, criteria can be developed to see how we can make and coordinate the best choices. I would be very surprised if the continent of Africa did not become a very important issue in this respect, given the population growth, poverty and the consequences of climate change. But the choice for countries that I will subject to very thorough process whatever needs to be explained, and on the basis of criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u48	That's a clear answer. I interpret it as being driven from the content and not from the pressure of the budget by saying 'we have to get rid of three countries, otherwise we can't'. I think it is important to take as a criterion that we have a very long history with certain countries. We've built up a lot of experience with that. It would be a shame to throw those investments away. Is that what the Minister's taking with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u49	These are very relevant suggestions. The whole discussion of criteria is not only a technical method, but also a qualitative element. If, in the long term, it turns out that there is a phasing-out or an exit from certain countries, to put it that way, that process must be well supervised. But right now, I don't want to speculate. I'll take all your suggestions with me. The content is very clear: the SDGs, the coalition agreement and the expectations. The theme "migration" is also very important, especially when you look at the migration deals. It could be labour migration, combating smuggling or irregular migration. I also refer to the theme of "return." That's all part of it. These are all themes that will be appointed at the EU-AU Summit, where I, Prime Minister Rutte and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Halbe Zijlstra, will be present. Of course, the African continent remains very important for the whole issue, both for investment, the trade agenda and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u50	The rich Arab countries, particularly the Gulf States, do relatively little to nothing about reception in the region or financial aid. Is the Minister going to try to change that? It seems to me that, with her background, she is the appropriate person for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thanks for the nice connotation. I can tell you that in my years of international work there has been a continuous dialogue, from secretaries-general to others, to allow many countries, including the so-called BRICS, the newly emerging economies, to make a different and much greater contribution to the multilateral system. But if you look at the statistics, that has not yet proved sufficient. I shall also come back to the heading on which Mrs Becker asked a question. I call it CERF, the Central Emergency Response Fund. Why is the Netherlands number three? And why are the other countries not there? The Netherlands is committed in all fora, both bilaterally and multilaterally, to addressing these countries on their responsibility, which is based on their financial capacity and the opportunities they have. I always will. I would find it unwise to promise success, but that is my commitment. The second is, of course, that some countries often choose to transfer large amounts bilaterally, but that is a bit contrary to our multilateral commitment. For example, a number of years ago Kuwait committed $500 million directly to the World Food Programme. But I represent the Netherlands, so I think this commitment is very important. This is the right commitment when it comes to shared responsibility, shared duties and shared burdens. But of course I cannot promise success linearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u52	I understand the latter, but the stakes are already quite considerable. Especially Saudi Arabia has a tent camp of millions of air-conditioned tents empty almost all year round. Do you intend to ask the Saudis specifically?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u53	I don't know the example. This is something for the conversation with the Emergency Relief Coordinator. Secretary-General António Guterres and the highest commander of emergency aid at the UN will be coming in December. I do not doubt your example, but it is always good to see for yourself how the UN is taking their approach, especially for Member States where it is hoped that they will make another greater contribution. As you know, some countries will say: yes, but we pay all the organizations A, B and C. This isn't an easy conversation. I think we need to make it clear what we, the Netherlands, want and can do and what we can be credible in asking others and expect from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u54	I have more of an informative question. It was now about shelter in the region. Yesterday, a number of Members, including me, said quite a lot about how we think things could be different. Are you gonna get to that? Or was this the cup of shelter in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u55	How else could it be? I can do the subject of reception in the region now, indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u56	That's fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u57	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u59	The Minister briefly addressed my question about CERF; then perhaps we can conclude it. The Minister says that she would certainly like to make an effort to allow other countries to make a substantial contribution. Does it recognise the mechanism which, when acute situations occur in the world, is always going to the countries with the hat in hand and that the Netherlands is in the lead again to contribute? So it's really undercapitalized right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u60	Undercapitalization is not the word. A number of years ago, we made ourselves strong for the establishment of CERF. We have done so together with a number of other countries, such as the United Kingdom. When it comes to steering and therefore also influence the international talks and the proper use of emergency aid, participation in CERF is a very good moment, also for a country like the Netherlands, because of course we are not permanently on the Security Council. So these are also the instruments you can use smartly. In addition, you have to think at some point about the added value, effectiveness, transparency and results. CERF is an ideal channel for this purpose. Not the only channel, but a suitable channel. The execution via CERF is of course often... They are UN organisations, but they are working with other NGOs, either locally or internationally. So you have scaling and reach, which you wouldn't have in any other way. So that's a smart choice for a country like the Netherlands. For example, the US often does not participate, but they work differently in terms of volume. So I'd say it's a smart choice and it stays that way. Unfortunately, in international humanitarian aid, I have known this for 25 years now. Indeed, it remains often with the same leading group of ten countries. At CERF, we're number three. By the way, a new document was released yesterday in which CERF expresses its vision for the future. That's very interesting to read. More participation by others is important, because this provides a greater basis, and that also applies to other forms of investment, because emergency aid becomes a chronic channel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mrs. Becker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u62	I share the Minister's view that it is a smart choice if countries take this together collectively. It is a thorn in our eyes that, for example, Saudi Arabia, China and Russia, but also countries closer, such as Belgium and Italy, contribute much less to it. I appreciate the Minister's saying she's gonna make an effort to get other countries to contribute more. I also understand that she cannot guarantee success immediately. But is it prepared to inform the Chamber of the results of these efforts? 'Cause it's really a good point for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u63	That's very nice. We will first draw up the indicators together, because experience has shown that it is a long-term path. As far as effort is concerned, the answer is yes. When it comes to the result, it's a complex process. There is also a lot of exchange with countries. This must be done in a diplomatic context. But I can report back on the stakes regularly. I can tell you who we spoke to and what our request was. But we must do so in consultation with and on behalf of CERF. It is difficult to sail through the UN Secretary-General's own efforts. Our own points remain our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u64	Please continue. Oh, Mr Voordewind has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u65	At the point of CERF, we're in third place, I understand. We've invested a lot of money in that. Is it the Minister's commitment to putting more money into that? Or does the Minister say: should we call on other parties to invest more money in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u66	The stakes are that we continue to finance CERF in the same way. There is no amount attached to that, but we want to continue to do so in the same way. As with many of the donors to CERF, the reliable partners of CERF, the commitment has been to expand and broaden it for years. This issue is also very much in the UN's development system. This group of the same donors gives less or says: it has been beautiful; we now need other countries as well. Of course, a country like China is no longer a developing country, and so there are more. Success has not yet been achieved at the highest political level. That's all I want to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u67	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u68	CERF is a nice tool that coordinates, but at the same time it is again an intermediate platform. We put money away on that intermediate station and then they can finance the UN organisations with it. The question is: what is the view of CERF's spending? Do we get enough reports on that? And if we are already doing it through an intermediate layer, why shouldn't we transfer it directly to the UN organisations, if those appeals are being made?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u69	Anyone who has worked in the field knows that putting together and working out such an apple is a very complex negotiation process, not only operational................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You have to agree to that with a government or with fighting parties. CERF is one element. Of course, we can always finance everything in a different way, but experience has shown that CERF is the secretariat that allows you as an organisation to say within 24 hours: "Tomorrow there is a crisis. I'm sending people out and I'm getting on a plane. When I arrive there tomorrow, the amount that makes it possible for me to work is already transferred by CERF." CERF's overhead costs are down to less than 2%. It's in their new report. We can get a report on everything, when we want it and how we want it, including from the organisations themselves. So there is absolutely no lack of reporting. I think that at some point we should also continue to rely on effectiveness, but always ask critical questions. In the crisis areas, of course, we withdraw our people from certain embassies for security reasons. But in countries where we have an embassy, where we are present, the embassy staff also actively participates in the monitoring and picks up criticism if there are any questions about the execution. We need to bet on both channels. But we never have to do everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u70	I suggest you move on. The Minister has given up 13 themes she wants to discuss. We're actually on theme...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u71	Theme four.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u72	Oh, four. Well, it's moving a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u73	I understand that, of course, but the Minister just said that she was going to the shelter in the region and the root causes of migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u74	Yes. That's why I didn't know if it was number three or four.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u75	Sorry. In the question and in my answer I have indeed mixed the themes a bit, but I also did so because the themes can be mixed. Mrs. Diks asked for shelter in the region. Mrs Becker also asked me at first whether I would like to continue to look closely at what is good policy when it comes to reception in the region. I have, of course, said on the one hand that it is an old story for many countries that have been providing shelter for many years. But our choice to invest now focused on reception in the region as a policy theme is new. We will also have to look at this in order to see what results are being achieved and what channels we want to use. I myself welcome the use of the concessional loan facility at the World Bank as one of the forms. But we also need to see how work can be created. As I said before, we also need to look at an increase in educational opportunities, especially for girls. We also need to look at how the education sector can provide greater protection when it comes to SRGR. We also need to look at other issues and a broader emancipation agenda. Mrs Diks asked me about the conditions under which we would like to conclude any new agreements. That is, of course, about the migration deals. They have also been discussed in the discussion of the BMI budget. There is currently only one agreement, namely that between the EU and Turkey. The government has agreed in the government agreement on the conditions under which the Netherlands could possibly conclude similar agreements with countries in North Africa within the EU. One of the conditions remains that these agreements must comply with the Refugee Convention in material terms. Refugees, of course, deserve our protection. The Dutch commitment to care in the region is always aimed at ensuring that people are adequately, safely and humanly received, and that their opportunities are maintained. But there must also be an eye on the host countries, otherwise the model will not be workable in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u76	I just wanted to keep an eye on the locals there. We have indicated that aid to refugees is obviously needed, but does the Minister see that aid is also needed for the local population, because there is also pressure on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u77	I can see that very much. I can even claim, like the Netherlands, that I have invested politically in setting up the concessional loan facility at the World Bank. Lebanon was one of the pioneers in the system to try out that model, against all political resistance within Lebanon. Indeed, it is sensitive for host countries to feel that they are taking out loans for a refugee population that they do not really want to host, at least not as long as it seems to last. A second very important point is the sensitivities of the host communities. Often they can hardly make ends meet at the bottom of the population themselves. They have the idea, whether it is true or not, that refugees are taking their jobs and driving them away, that the pressure on infrastructure is too high, that there is no place in the local hospital anymore and that the government is only engaged internationally. These feelings are entirely justified and therefore reception in the region requires a broader approach, including to combat human trafficking and exploitation and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u78	I would be interested in another answer to this question. We made it very clear yesterday that, when money is taken out of the development cooperation budget to finance these kinds of deals, you actually maintain the root causes of migration. Because you can actually spend less and less money on development aid, you can work less seriously on those root causes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u79	The subject is now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u80	That's what I was looking forward to. Is the minister gonna work that out? I sincerely hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mrs Diks wasn't here for a while, but the Minister passed on a number of themes. On that list are the root causes as the fourth theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u82	Sorry, Chairman. I apologized to you in advance for having to go to a procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u83	That's right. That's why I'm saying it. The subject is now on the list, and I suggest that the Minister continues with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u84	Then I'll go on over there. I will try to cut it short, in the hope of course that I do not provoke additional questions myself because of my shortness. About root causes. The question is, of course, always: why are countries in the Sahel not able to escape poverty? Why does a Ghanaian or a Nigerian take the risk of crossing the Mediterranean Sea through the desert via Libya for a lot of money? The root causes of poverty, exploitation and lack of opportunities are actually the answer to that question. This often leads to irregular or illegal migration. Economic migrants want to make something of their lives and that of their families. They don't lie down... that's human... to the hopelessness of a future without work or opportunities for their children. I can honestly imagine enough of that. I think everyone can, if he only moves into another man's fate. However, migrating to Europe in this way is not the solution. The perspective for many, most of them, is not in Europe, certainly not in this way. Betting on root causes can offer prospects in their own country. Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP rightly stressed the importance of investing in employment, entrepreneurship and vocational training for African young people. This is one example. I myself, if I may add, am very ported for the subject of vocational education, because that is such a nice bridge and it gives employment. Mrs van den Hul also rightly pointed to education, specifically for young women and girls. Let me start with employment. The EU-Africa Summit next week has the theme of "investment in youth." The sub-theme is actually "employment and investment." People are not necessarily asking for ODA, they are asking for employment, investment opportunities and an active role for business. That is what human dignity is all about in the end. We want to be able to make something of ourselves. That opportunity must be created. Youth unemployment, as we know, stirs up discontent and tensions societies. In Mali, for example, 300,000 young people, 18-year-olds alone, enter the labour market every year. Those are always frightening statistics. But there's actually no work. In order to promote employment, I want to continue to invest in a better business environment and in entrepreneurship. Supporting young start-ups is essential in this respect. In the first term, Mr.Hijink asked for better cooperation between companies in the Netherlands and smaller entrepreneurs in Africa on the basis of equivalence. That is absolutely right. That is also something that I am very concerned about, because that is the only formula that will prove to be successful in the long term. Entrepreneurship is very important to make people more economically resilient. I would like to invest extra in this and build on the instruments that already exist, of course still waiting for the creation of Invest-NL. But we already have the FMO, the Dutch Good Growth Fund and other public-private partnership programs. I would also like to mention Making Africa Work, in which young African entrepreneurs and Dutch diaspora are linked together. I think I understand very well that this is certainly done on the basis of equivalence. In the case of reception in the region and emergency aid, I have already pointed out the importance of education, particularly in fragile countries. If we want to give young people more perspective, additional investment in education will be needed. But I will come back to this when the policy paper is drawn up. In addition, the cabinet will invest extra in scholarships and young people from the ring around Europe. These investments are also part of agreements on migration in countries. So the theme of "migration" must be addressed in a holistic way to use an old-fashioned word: investment, opportunities, aid, support, but also, of course, an approach to irregular migration as expressed in the coalition agreement. Trafficking in human beings must be stopped and return arrangements must be made. But I am going to have this conversation with my colleague Zijlstra, the Secretary of State for Migration and all the other ministers involved. This is not a subject that concerns only external trade and development cooperation; far from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u85	First of all, are you done with this theme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u87	Okay. I would also like to point out that a lot of professional jargon and English abbreviations are used. I believe that this will allow a lot of people who are not at home in development cooperation to drop out. I just want to give you guys to be on the alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u88	I'm sure as hell gonna try, Mr. Chairman. A number of studies indicate that an increase in prosperity primarily results in an increase in legal migration and that other factors contribute to it. A researcher from the International Organisation for Migration.......................................................................................................................................................... These would mainly be reasons for migration. As prosperity rises, people also have the means to pay for the journey. Can the Minister answer that? And if I could go one more step further, could she perhaps send a more extensive letter? There have been several studies showing this, so can she go into it a little more extensively?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u89	Very nice, because I myself worked for the IOM, the International Organization for Migration. They always do very good work and make good studies. I have to look at the study myself first and see what else is quoted. The concept is called'relative exclusion': there are more opportunities elsewhere and people are looking for employment. It is also a complaint from many African countries: they are finally investing, a doctor is trained and he or she would like to find a better job opportunity in the West or elsewhere. They often go to America, Australia or Canada because of their labour migration policies. I'll look into the study. I think it is important not to anticipate what the cabinet will decide on migration. There will be a broader migration note. All these pieces can be taken into account. Labour migration will, of course, be an important issue. Countries in Europe are also looking at the ageing of the population and how this could potentially create a capacity gap. I will come back to this with colleagues at a different time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u90	Thank you for that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u91	I've been working on small businesses. We talked about continuing to support start-ups and the relationship with small businesses. The Minister is right to point out that we have a very big task in Africa to create new jobs. Does she agree with me that there should be room in the policy to take the next step? Do we really want to create so many jobs that we also want to see how large or medium-sized enterprises create jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u92	Yes, I agree. I think that the commitment and experience of medium to large companies can be directing and inspiring. That's what we need to learn from. That can happen by sector. I think they are good examples for the discussion ahead of the policy paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u93	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr. Voordewind. This is your third interruption, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u95	Are there any restrictions on that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u96	That's what I'm gonna do if it goes on like this. Let me warn you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u97	I'm really nervous right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u98	That's the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u99	What we are discussing now is the heart of the coalition agreement when it comes to root causes of migration and poverty reduction. That is why I have a clarifying question about it. We received a written response on the ARC, the Addressing Root Causes Fund. The Minister mentions a number of funds that are included. Does the Minister also consider the extension of the fund when it comes to youth employment in Africa? The fund started before the minister started, in 2016, but it touches the core of the government agreement. It would be right if we did more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u100	First of all, I would like to comment on the subject. I know it was founded recently. It is OS-technically early to draw any conclusions about whether it is a success or not. At the end of 2018 is the moment. If it works, I think it's appropriate that we build on that. Right now, I can't say that. This is a neutral answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u101	There will be an evaluation at the end of 2018. It's a new fund. Because it is so part of what this coalition agreement is about, you could decide it now. The Minister is going to make her note, but if we think this is a good fund, we would be able to expand it immediately at the start. At the moment, there is only 25 million a year available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u102	Normally that is a good amount for this kind of fund. I think we have a few months left to hear and see first experiences. At the moment, of course, I am looking at these instruments from a positive point of view, but I would like to take the whole framework with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u103	The Minister rightly says that work, jobs and education are important reasons for young people in particular to stay in the country where they are. I totally agree with that. In some places the work is there, but it is done by far too small children, such as in the cobalt mines in Congo, where children of 4 or 5 years of age are sometimes put to work. I refer to Amnesty's recent report. How is the Minister going to tackle such a specific problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u104	I have the impression that we are coming at an early stage to the heading 'agreements and business approach'. I'd like to get back to that separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u105	Please continue. Excuse me, Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u106	Sorry, Mr. Chairman. We talked about the root causes and about care in the region. On these two themes I sometimes feel that it could be a grey area. What are you doing under the heading "investing in care in the region" and what do you do about the root causes? How does the Minister view this? How does she ensure that one budget is not funded from another, if she understands what I mean? I call the initiative of horticulture...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u107	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u108	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u109	Oh, excuse me. I thought that Mrs Becker would only have to give one example to make it clear. But that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u110	Suppose you want to invest in horticulture projects to address the root causes. At the same time, you say that it also fits in with care in the region, because those horticultural projects take place in the area where the shelter is located. Then it will be financed under the heading "care in the region'. It's an example. How does the Minister ensure that we keep that separate and, in other words, that there is enough funding left under the real term "care in the region"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u111	In this case, the example may be wrong, because reception in the region is also about employment. I know the example, though I didn't look it up. Refugees in the region of Syria can only work in the agricultural sector. There are projects for them through horticulture cultivation. They can work there. So that's shelter in the region. Otherwise, the FAO or the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). There they work elsewhere in Africa in the horticultural sector from a different perspective. Sometimes the namer is the same, but the result is different. There is a clear separation, because one promotes care in the region, while the other tackles the root causes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u113	Mr President, I now turn to the'sexual and reproductive health and rights' block. Mr Bouali and others rightly referred to this issue as a basic right. I couldn't agree more. It offers women, men, whole families protection against sexual violence and it offers choices. I would already like to commit to a special commitment for vulnerable groups. Girls are kids, not brides. I am also referring to the subject of the Member of Parliament, Mr Van den Hul. We continue to fight child marriages, but we also want to work for other vulnerable groups. I'm thinking of men who have sex with men, drug users, anyone who could fall into the area of possible abuse by authority or otherwise. I say to Mrs Diks and Mrs Van den Hul: I will continue to support SheDecides in words and deed. The cabinet already took over an Asscher/Ploumen motion on this matter. I would also like to focus on subjects in which the Netherlands can make an even greater difference. Also in relation to SheDecides means broadening a movement and stimulating southern governments' own responsibilities. It can't just be the voice from the north, it's a joint responsibility. The execution is of course often in the south. I want to provide better access to sexual and reproductive health, rights and humanitarian situations. This is critical. I want to strengthen local organisations active in this area. Specifically, this means that the Netherlands is and will remain a strong political partner in SheDecides, with an additional Dutch contribution of 13 million euros already promised by my predecessor in 2018. I would also like to link this with the heading of women's rights, because they are integrally linked. The cabinet will continue to pursue international policy on women's rights, explicitly as part of the whole foreign policy. I also see a possible broadening of trade policy there. Mrs. Kuik asked to step up her efforts to combat trafficking in women and prostitution. I'm glad the theme raises so many questions. I will explore ways in which our foreign policy, in conjunction with other priorities, will require extra attention to counter this, which I have already reported on trafficking in women. Investment in women and girls directly contributes to the elimination of root causes of poverty, conflict, exploitation and marginalisation. It is an important condition for achieving the SDGs. In the area of trade, we can also do more to strengthen the position of women and girls. I want to include this issue in the margins of the 11th Ministerial Conference of the World Trade Organisation, next month in Buenos Aires. This is the end of the cup, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u114	You'll learn very quickly. I almost tend to give Mr Dijkgraaf the opportunity to ask about women's rights first. But I'm still going to see Mrs Van den Hul, who was standing there earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too am very much looking forward to the interruption of Mr Dijkgraaf on the issue of women's rights. But first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her commitments and commitment to the issue of sexual and reproductive health and women's rights. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister whether she can also pay particular attention to marriage coercion, which is often neglected. I was talking about child marriage yesterday, following Amal's case. But also wedding pressure is unfortunately still common in the Netherlands, but also in the south.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u116	I would like to say yes, with the caveat that I need to understand better in what context this is taking place and what really would be the means to counter this. This is probably a grey area, very sensitive, but about wedding coercion, an important theme, but I say this with a large caveat, I like to have more information to make but not unwise comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you to the Minister, too. I would like to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u118	Thank you. Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u119	Madam President. My question is about women's rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u120	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u121	Not to disappoint you. And that's what I was going to do before you made that comment. In my contribution, I asked a question about combating the violation of the rights of very young women, gendercide. That question was answered in writing. It refers to a letter from 2016. Now it is not quite clear whether this minister is also pursuing the policy of the previous cabinet. You can read it implicitly, but I'd still like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u122	Basically, yes, but I'd like to come back with more details in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u123	That is fine, because of course it is a great evil what these women are being done to in many countries. The previous cabinet really bet on that. I would like this cabinet to do so with equal energy and perhaps even more energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u124	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u125	I'll be brief. Thank you for putting this Minister of Women's Law and SRGR so prominently on the agenda and for doing so. I'm very happy about that. Thank you also for the answers we received in writing to my questions about the contribution to the UN organisation UNFPA. I put it because these kinds of organisations are also under financial pressure. I understand that there is a need to consider where the funds are allocated, but I would like to call on the Minister once again to see if it is possible, if there is room, to support this type of important organisation, which actually gets less money, from the Dutch side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u126	I'll look into that again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u127	Thank you to the Minister for so comprehensively addressing sexual and reproductive health and rights, as this is of course warmly supported by GroenLinks. I myself asked a question about the very specific link with other diseases, such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and so on. You have already said a few things about this in your written reply, but could you explain it a little more orally?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u128	Yes. I must confess that I signed this written procedure very late, but the most important thing is that we continue with the choice of the channel, the importance of HIV and the fight against AIDS and, of course, the extension of tuberculosis. In Central and East Asia there are new incidents. We are, of course, the host country for next year's AIDS conference. We want to focus on all these themes, but I also talked about this with Melinda Gates recently. We are also looking for a strengthening of all the funding channels, so that this is not forgotten in the agenda, because there is always the risk that people think we are almost there and that we are only doing a little less. No, I don't think so. Enlargement is important, of course also to specific target groups and people who benefit from it. So it remains a central theme, including in my policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u129	I couldn't agree more. You also know, of course, that the policy of the President of the United States has caused many organisations dealing with sexual and reproductive rights to be in trouble. Could you clarify that a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u130	"Can the Minister..."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u131	I think that the Dutch policy on the issues against which President Trump is acting is different, especially in the areas of sexual rights, women's rights and the right to access safe abortion. That is of course also one of the factors that led to the setting up of SheDecides. I would like to look again in the policy paper at how we can build on these issues and what funding measures can be linked to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u132	Is the Minister prepared to stop financing the legal sector in Somalia as long as courts where justice will be based on Sharia are financed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u133	Thanks for the question. Right now, I've asked to see what project it's about. As soon as I have more facts, I will return to Mr Van Weerdenburg in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u134	Thank you. Please continue. We've ended up in climate and agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try to narrow it down even more. Climate and agriculture: the government is firmly committed to the Paris agreements. It is not a cliché: climate change and the consequences of climate change are, of course, the challenge, not only of this generation but also of future generations. But the responsibility is ours. It's the biggest threat to the planet. Paris is hopeful, but the practice is unbearable. Of course, we are all inspired by the American representatives who were in Bonn with the hashtag WeAreStillIn. That was English, but the hashtag is in English, Madam President. We have to go on now. Serious measures are needed. This requires choices, and that requires resources, but of course that also requires policy coherence. Food, water scarcity, floods are the consequences that make people's livelihood insecure. I would therefore like to return to the central theme: to invest and develop the central framework of the SDGs, because development goals and climate objectives are closely or almost insolublely linked and we are looking for coherence. The national climate fund, which is also requested, will, of course, be specifically targeted at activities that are climate-relevant and development-relevant, but on the implementation of the climate fund, I will come back to my policy paper. This requires consultation, it needs to be appropriate in a context of our broader approach and deployment of foreign trade, aid and investment, and it also requires, of course, consultation with many of my colleagues, so that the climate fund also fits in with the many climate choices we are going to make in the Netherlands. I will also be committed to mobilising private funding for climate action. That's just as relevant. I know, also from my own experience, that many developing countries are asking for this too. ODA funds are often only catalytic, while they need to open a door to the wider funding flows needed to deliver concrete actions. Many Members have also spoken in this context about agriculture and food security. The Dutch expertise in agriculture is added value for developing countries through Wageningen University, seed processing companies and DSM. These organisations also help developing countries deal with climate and the consequences of climate change. We are talking, for example, about crops that are more resistant to drought, which Mr Voordewind asked for. In this context, I will also be working well with my colleague Mr Schouten from the Ministry of Agriculture. That brings me to the end of this heading, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u136	Those cups are very handy! You just indicated that you had seen the written reply very late. It responds somewhat to my proposal yesterday to promote much more from the Netherlands that we join a project such as the Green Wall and projects aimed at restoring agricultural land. You indicate that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u137	Speak through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u138	Excuse me. I ask the Minister, through the President: does she indicate that she will return to this proposal in her policy paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u139	To be honest, I have not yet come to speak to my colleagues about specific new initiatives, such as in this case of the African Union. I think it is good to look at that again and see where the added value can lie. So I will indeed come back to this element, this proposal, in my policy paper. It's not about committing money. If good models are to be launched, we need to see what we can learn from them and whether we want to join them. This connection can take the form of political, knowledge, tripartite consultations or money. I'm sure I'm open in that. I have one final comment to make: in international terms, the African Union is often one of the regional organisations that effectively tackle key issues on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u140	Thank you very much for taking it up this way, because this can be incredibly important to really make a move in that region and to really do something about removing root causes of migration. In my speech, I specifically drew attention to the involvement of women in the organisation or better organisation of land rights. If fertile soil is restored, it should also be given to women, because it has been proven to have long-term positive effects. For the sake of clarity, it is not so much a matter of the Dutch state having to organize and pay for everything, but of the Minister using her position to bring parties together to further shape and pursue these big projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u141	So it was actually more of a call. Then I'll go to Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u142	It is very good that the Minister pays particular attention to climate and agriculture. We have also made it clear in our input that we need to look further. We have a new reign and a new minister. I'm actually looking for where we are and the next step we're going to take to boost those food value chains in Africa, for example. This starts with the processing of the seeds, but we also have the entire chain experience in the Netherlands, until we put the product in the store. Does the Minister recognise that we need to develop a vision or at least bring it back into policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u143	In principle, yes, but I do not want to anticipate a vision consisting of 50,000 other counters. I think that agriculture, the use of technology, the link to Dutch business, the link back to employment and dealing with the consequences of climate change are very clear themes. I'm sure they'll come back, but I don't want to commit to it explicitly yet. I do expect us to take a serious look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u144	We are all in favour of investing in the agricultural economy. It's wonderful that the cabinet is going to do it, too. But the question is whether they are the right investments and whether we are starting from the right perspective. That is why I specifically asked whether the government chose the perspective of the UN rapporteur on the right to food, namely that we see food primarily as a human right and not as a commodity, because that makes a lot of difference for the follow-up steps and the follow-up solutions we seek with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u145	A complex question is being asked. The right to food is seen as a fundamental human right in ECOSOC, which is a UN discount for the Economic and Social Council. I see a lot in it; absolutely. I also think that this is a theme of the future. There are, of course, different choices for adapting economies, production and consumption processes. This requires investment and change processes. I think I am now going to go ahead with the coalition agreement and the clear objectives. A balance has been found within the SDGs, which has been negotiated internationally. But as I said before, I'm going to read the book of the famous economist first and then I'd like to talk to you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u146	Thank you. That's a nice move. I talked about two people, the food rapporteur and the economist Kate Raworth...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u147	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u148	... but together they have a wonderful vision for the future. Do I fully understand the Minister's desire to choose that right-to-food approach on behalf of the cabinet? Or should we wait for more research? Can she give us anything or anything about that already?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u149	Well, that seems a little premature. I think that, of course, we will all look at food issues, such as access to food, quality food and standards and values. You are asking a very complex socio-economic question. It is also about equal opportunities, creating added value for everyone, growing economies and ensuring that the Netherlands as a trading country benefits. I'm not answering that right now. The issue of the right to food and the right to survival or, rather, more than survival is a very important issue in our international action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u150	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u151	I now come to the SDGs, but a lot has already been said about the SDGs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u152	SDGs are sustainable development goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u153	Yes, sustainable development goals, but the questions were also asked in that term. You are quite right, by the way, I can simply call it sustainable development goals; that is even more beautiful. Members Van den Hul and Dijkgraaf already asked a number of questions about it. I am not focusing specifically on the international block, but on the national one, because the question was also how the coordination of sustainable development objectives within the cabinet will be implemented and whether there is an agenda for the entire cabinet in relation to these objectives. This also refers, of course, to a question that has already been answered in writing about the so-called SDG test or the Sustainable Development Goals Test. As I said earlier, the sustainable development goals have been adopted at global level and apply to the Netherlands. This is different from the Millennium Development Goals. Each country is expected to make progress and has an obligation to report on it. I will do this as I have done before; I am doing this on behalf of the cabinet. We're the coordinator, but the execution is up to every ministry. This makes it more difficult to agree on an SDG test or a sustainable development target test. The Chamber has been informed about this; there are advantages but also practical disadvantages, because the big question is: what is our starting point, what are we going to measure? I think we will focus more on better information by reporting on the progress made in the Netherlands. We also do this together with partners of the so-called "sustainable development goals" title was really chosen by the Netherlands in English "SDG-charter," or translated into Dutch, the sustainable development goals charter. This is a platform where there is a lot of cooperation in this area. Mr Dijkgraaf specifically asked about the test, following the letter received by the Chamber to which I referred. As far as I'm concerned, a test is always sympathetic. It keeps us honest, and it keeps us on course. Everyone in the cabinet also wants to contribute to it, but I do not know whether it will make a great deal of difference in the detail. You probably read that in the letter sent by my predecessor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u154	Is this the end of this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u155	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u156	Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u157	Mr President, I note that from now on we are talking about a DOD test, I am happy to say. In itself, I welcome the Minister's answer, but it is not entirely clear to me. In the previous motion I tabled, I asked for the pros and cons to be clarified. Then came a letter with the pros and cons. So that motion was properly carried out. The follow-up question is whether or not we're gonna do that test. Now I can easily follow the Minister when she says she doesn't know it yet, but I would like to know whether the Minister is going to do it now, in the sense that she could do it in a way that works and has added value. If she wants to look at that, I'll keep my motion in my pocket, I think, and otherwise I'll ask the Chamber for a ruling, but that first would be my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u158	Don't threaten me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u159	I had a bit of the same reaction as Mr Dijkgraaf with regard to the answer. It's a little for and a little against. I admit that I am going back to the cabinet and I am going to make a proposal to see if an SDG test is workable and I will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u160	That's good. Then I would advise the Minister to make a very firm plan first and then talk to the colleagues, because I know them a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u161	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u162	Thank you for taking a look at the SDG test as well. That is a point on which I have also addressed in my contribution. I also asked whether you would like to see whether it might be interesting to introduce a CSR test so that, for example, the explanatory memorandum of new legislative proposals can measure or indicate how the SDGs and CSR are being assessed. In my opinion, the big problem with the review is that we in the Netherlands always think that it is done here and that it is done, while in the Netherlands too many of these goals are still far from being achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u163	It is an interesting idea and I shall return to it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u164	This morning in the introduction, the Minister mentioned the SDGs. They're presented as Columbus' egg. At the same time, she also mentioned problems that would not go away. It is a fact that the number of weakest countries is still the same. There's only gonna be more if you look at the last 50 years. So my question is: the amount to achieve the development goals is 3.9 trillion a year. The answer to help that doesn't help isn't more money, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u165	It's a very pertinent question. It is often an image that rightly emerges, as if it all depended on help. The great thing about the answer is, of course, that it does not depend on help. Help is really just a small part. That's why SDG 17 is so interesting. A very small part depends on private investment, concessional loans, large loans, rise of business, drive economies. So help is actually a small part. As you also know, many of the countries that previously received aid are saying: please, a little help is. In the end, it is always very limited what is global in ODA funds. We want access to markets, we want product improvement, we want technological transfers and we want to be able to play a role throughout the financial spectrum. That amount is estimated on that basis. So it's not just ODA that's going to make the big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u166	I understand that, too. That wasn't my question. I understand it's not 3.9 billion in grant. My question is: what good is it going to do to the Third World? You can't seriously say that it's gonna work if you have to get more money every time, no matter where that money comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u167	Most of the money is then borrowed by the countries themselves. So it's their money, their loan and their refund. Secondly, it is investment. Companies make money out of it. Work is being created and money is being spent. As you know, transfers of money that guest workers earn in a country A or B are more than the total value of ODA funds in many countries. So it's not help. It is a broader package that brings about a process of change and thus makes the world safer, keeps people more at home, which many people want, and offers opportunities for everyone. That is the shared welfare security agenda in which human rights are also central. It's not help. It's a much more complex package. And there really is a business case, so to speak. There's a business proposition on the table. The SDGs are actually human rights-based. It's a very business proposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u168	I know you want to move on. Do you need a short suspension of two or three minutes, or should we just continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u169	No, thank you. Would you like to suspend, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u170	No. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u171	Okay. I'll try to shorten it even further. Effectiveness and partners, heading nine. Mrs Becker of the VVD, as well as others, implicitly or explicitly, rightly asked about impact measurement and evaluations. The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is well advanced. As you know, we have a special service in the house which independently measures the results. In the budget we also have specific objectives of some 15 result indicators. Now that policies are changing in some respects, we are also going to look at whether these indicators are still relevant, whether they need to be adapted and whether other measurements are important at present and in the future. I will take this into account in the new policy paper. Mrs Van Weerdenburg (PPE). - (NL) I have already mentioned this in her speech on the gap between citizens and politics, in particular on development cooperation. This cabinet therefore wholeheartedly agrees that public policy, including development cooperation, should be able and able to move closer to the citizen. However, as Mrs Van Weerdenburg has pointed out, I am not so gloomy, because I believe in the combination of aid, trade and investment. So help is a part, but an important and precise part. We also want to be transparent towards the citizens about the granting of subsidies and the results that result from them. The results report, which of course has also been measured by indicators, is accessible and accessible to everyone. As we conclude in the coalition agreement, development cooperation works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u172	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u173	I am at your disposal, Madam President. I'm gonna finish the results here. Like I said before, I'd like to come back to it. These indicators are important, which 15, adaptation may be important, independent measurement is important and policy coherence is important. This is, of course, also a horizontal story between the different ministries if we work together in the same field in a complementary way, because the border is sometimes somewhat more vague at national and international level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u174	Mr. Chairman. I will listen to you very carefully and ask questions at the end of the debate. I was just triggered by what the Minister said about the importance of policy conclusions. She also says that in her written answers. I am very pleased that she says that she is ensuring that this is included in the budget, because the General Court was critical of the fact that we do not always have those policy conclusions. So thank you for that commitment. I call on the Minister to look at the indicators and see if we can include an indicator of trade, which is missing from the budget. I find that very regrettable, because it is precisely in this context that it is also important to know whether the policy is really effective. So if she wanted to do that, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u175	I'll say yes. Investing also comes back to the improvements. I think that's almost heading 11 already. I will come back to this when it comes to setting up the trade agenda in its entirety. This requires investment and cooperation. If we set targets and measure the results, we obviously need indicators for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u176	I would also like to appeal to this Minister. You also belong to a number of members of this Chamber that there is not so much support for development cooperation. Sometimes there is also some difficulty in dealing with trade agreements. I read one statistical report after another, the Eurobarometer recently. More than 90% of the Dutch are in favour of development cooperation. That means 10% isn't, but a fat majority is just for that and likes it. Does the Minister also want to see how we can bring that to the fore, including in communication to the outside world?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u177	We've been looking into that, too. I had a number of sources, but you know, the source can also be put aside if it doesn't come true. So I didn't use this this morning. Of course we do, but we also need to see who doesn't come. It is not about convincing the convinced, it is about finding balance and a bridge back to the citizen. Civil society organisations, including diaspora organisations, are and remain important partners for two reasons. Initially, it is important for a country like the Netherlands to support civil society in other countries, in developing countries. We know that their political and operational scope is often restricted. I now refer to the very important CIVICUS Monitor. It is often also about the political playing field, but I intend to sit down with a number of representatives of Dutch organisations shortly and, of course, to include their ideas and experiences in the drafting and drafting of the government note. I now come to heading 10, the proactive and progressive trade agenda. Mrs Becker of the VVD and Mr Bouali of D66 just spoke about the importance of a proactive trade agenda. I agree that access to the world market is and remains crucial, including for our prosperity. I want to work on this, as we have just discussed, on the basis of objectives, objectives and cooperation. I will take some of the reports and studies that have recently been made on improvements in the setting up of strategic missions, the inclusiveness. Indeed, Mr Amhaouch also talked about small and medium-sized enterprises and the scope of Dutch business. He asked for attention to be paid to this and, of course, to see how we can work for their strength and their opportunities and, of course, to contribute retroactively to development and economic growth in other countries. It is also about emerging markets and, of course, good cooperation to resist together the challenges we face, such as sustainability and inclusive growth. I will certainly take the position of women with me in this. I've always thought of myself as a channel for that. It is important that we all speak. The Netherlands is of course also known for the top CEOs we have, which are also international SDG champions. I've already had conversations with VNO-NCW and other organizations. We must maintain the export and competitiveness of the Netherlands. Improvement is always possible and necessary. So I would also like to focus on improving the effectiveness of economic services and increasing access to finance for businesses. I would certainly also like to give companies a better understanding of how they can take opportunities. I want to bet on supporting start-ups internationally. I want to look at innovation, but also at societal issues such as the circular economy. We have a lot of knowledge to offer. There's a lot of support. In this respect, it is a situation on which both parties can profit in the social and material sense. The previous cabinet has taken steps, but I am also looking in the new note for more strategy, building on the combined portfolio, and for focus and quality of service, also reading what has appeared reports. Some companies did not understand where to go and did not know what was available. It is sometimes a matter of simple but very important importance. Of course, it is also about transparency. In the context of trade promotion, I will look at support for the Dutch business community. I have already mentioned the missions of private parties as well as knowledge institutions: a new force field, national and international. As I said, I will take the reports from the advisory committees into account. I call Team Netherlands, but of course there are many others. Cooperation with the regions is a precious issue, not only for Mr Amhaouch, but also for me. There's a lot to learn, but there's a lot to give. That is all for this subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u178	On this subject, I had asked a specific question about "I'm sorry for the English name "The European Partnership for Responsible Minerals." This is a partnership where the Netherlands is pumping in 6 million tax dollars. This helps large billions of companies like Apple, Intel and HP to enslave-free raw materials for their production. That is of course a wonderful project, but I did ask why Dutch taxpayers' money should go there. These are billions of companies. Perhaps the Minister can already indicate, otherwise perhaps in the second term, whether she is prepared to stop providing financial assistance to that project.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u179	I need to get more information. I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u180	I thank the Minister for saying that she considers it important to come up with a proactive trade agenda. I realize that yesterday I gave a lot of different examples of things that business has come up against. They also told us about this in a round table in the Chamber. Is the Minister prepared to take these specific issues into account in drawing up such an agenda? It is now too far-reaching to go into it, but I think it is important that the business community is really involved in this agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u181	Yeah, I've said that before. We do this, of course, in consultation with the various organisations and the business community. I'm gonna look for it myself... I'm going to look for ideas, but I meant to say that I'm going to search, for example in the region of Brabant and the city of Rotterdam. I want to go to other provinces, too. I have already made many contacts with business representatives there. That's incredibly important. I don't think you're building policies on specific ideas, but ideas will feed us, provide us with experience and give us a direction to implement them properly. So, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u182	The Minister gives a number of interesting examples of how she intends to deal with trade policy in her new note. That's very much appreciated. I also missed the much smarter and more policy-coherent link that can be established between the Dutch foreign trade policy and development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u183	That is a point I wanted to make at the end of my speech. I think there are two layers. On the one hand, we have an international cooperation pathway, OS 'hard core', I would almost say. There are questions in there that need to be answered anyway. On the other hand, there is a trade agenda which is for the Netherlands and of which business also rightly has a lot of expectations. The instruments can be extended and improved. Priority will be given to this. At the end, the sustainability stories, economic growth, investment channels, women's rights and so on, all these themes, come together there again. That's why the SDGs are so important. But it requires policies to bring the two flows together. Themes, such as corporate social responsibility, offer moments where you can also make choices. The Climate Fund is another example. There is a fund that we want to fight climate change with. We have knowledge, we have companies. That brings us back to the moments when things can go together. Of course, I don't have a policy paper here yet. So forgive me if it doesn't come together yet, but that is the commitment and I can see that very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u184	I'm glad you're gonna pick it up that way. I think there are incredibly many opportunities when you look at the knowledge we have in agriculture, in water, in energy and so on. The list is endless, I'd almost say. As for this link, it would be nice if we could really get the merchant and the vicar together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u185	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u186	We have repeatedly called for the evaluation of trade agreements. In the written reply, the Minister also states that she is working on this and that this was discussed at European level last week. It mentions June 2018 as the deadline for this. Maybe I'm a little bitch in that area. June 2018 is good in itself, if we can also discuss it in the Chamber. The Chamber should not have to lift it over the summer recess again. We would prefer to have it sooner, preferably in spring. Can the Minister take into account that we can also treat this as a Chamber before the summer recess?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u187	I'm sure I'll take that into account. I think it is a relevant point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u188	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u189	Then I'm almost at the end. I have two more important issues: fair free trade and sustainability. This was also just referred to by MP Diks. We want to continue to link fair free trade, corporate social responsibility and chain responsibility. Trade and investment must go hand in hand with respect for human rights, labour rights, animal welfare and climate. It is trade that contributes to a safe world and to responsible exports of military goods and goods that can be used for both military and civil purposes. Fair free trade is trade that contributes to the now famous SDGs and the progress of countries in development. Mrs Ouwehand reiterated concerns about the extraction of tar sand oil in Canada. I have already sent your Chamber an explanation of the possibilities for doing something about this within GATT. It is evidently difficult to distinguish between production methods within the GATT/WTO rules. The argument is always that it quickly promotes unwanted discrimination. However, I would like to point out that I think it is a valid issue, including as an example, and that it should be considered, within formats, whether the Netherlands will not be able to put such issues back on the table about production methods and fair trade. I do not necessarily want to look at tar sand oil; it is the subject of the fundamental question that you are asking. If production processes actually work against our agenda, what are the choices and how do you use negotiations? I have no specific commitment yet, far from it, but I understand and appreciate your commitment. I have also learned a little bit about tar sand oil, Madam President. I was also asked about the negotiations on a binding UN Convention on Human Rights and Businesses. I've tried reading myself a few times now. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about the contours of such a treaty; that is clear to me. The Chairman of the Intergovernmental Working Group, Ecuador, has late distributed draft elements for a possible treaty. There are many questions from many Member States. It is therefore not going to participate in the conversation from absence to critical questions and fundamental questions about the elements that have been put forward. The concept elements of the Convention that we have seen affect many international law issues: human rights, of course, very important, but also the liability of jurisdiction. The cabinet will consider the Dutch position on a possible treaty. At the moment, I do not know how far the negotiations will really go, but our institution will always be that it happens in consultation with EU Member States. We want to make a constructive contribution to these negotiations. I come to a final point about the sustainability of value chains and covenants. As I said before and as this Chamber knows, we are working on fair trade through value chains. We are unique in the integral way we do that. We expect companies to act in accordance with the OECD guidelines and to identify, prevent or address risks in their chains, as many members have pointed out before, but also to account for them. But I think we also understand that fundamental, critical problems such as child labour and wage exploitation cannot be solved by companies alone. We must do this together with NGOs, trade unions, companies and the governments of the producing countries, which must take responsibility. At the moment, there is still a choice for the agreement approach by sector. Far-reaching agreements have been made with Dutch companies and NGOs to reduce abuses in the chain. As this Chamber knows, five covenants have been concluded since 2016. In accordance with the coalition agreement, the cabinet really wants to continue this approach. Within one year, four further agreements for international corporate social responsibility will be signed. Mrs Diks van GroenLinks asked me what actions I would like to take to make a food agreement possible. The Chamber will soon receive answers to written questions from member Hijink of the SP about the announcement that civil society organisations are withdrawing from negotiations on the food agreement. The reason for this is that I myself asked for more information, both about the process and about the substantive criticism and concerns, in order to have a better understanding before I turn to an answer, which may also give a choice and a vote. Returning to the Imvo agreements, these will be evaluated and reviewed in two years' time. Then it is time to consider whether binding legislative measures are a more effective instrument if the evaluation shows that what we are aiming for has not achieved the desired result. So, in response to the question from your Chamber about the possibility of proposing legislation now, I would prefer to continue this pending the evaluation of the agreements. However, I would like to examine the possibility of an earlier mid-term review, which will lead to a possible adjustment of the exchange rate or which could show prematurely that the approach to the agreements will not achieve the desired results. Then, of course, it is important that legislative measures remain above the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u190	Were you done with this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u191	Hm-yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u192	If you're not ready, you'll have the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u193	Well, there's a time we should also underline. The covenants have just begun. The parties need time to demonstrate that their efforts have actually led to improved, appropriate due diligence by companies, that they have made choices in their chain and that they also have consequences and consequences for possible negative processes within their value chain. We must give this some time, but temporaryity does not mean eternity. I see a huge interest in giving the signal that legislative measures are also being examined. We have the case of France, which is often quoted, but the law does not enter into force until 1 January 2018. Unfortunately, therefore, we do have the legislation, but not the lessons. We also have the United Kingdom. A number of countries, including the Netherlands, are actively seeking to ensure that all forms of exploitation and violation of human rights are effectively addressed, in particular child labour. I am concerned about effectiveness and the level playing field, including for Dutch companies. But in terms of human rights and child labour, our voice is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u194	I am very content with the Minister's reply on this point. I have said on behalf of GroenLinks on several occasions that I think it is important to start voluntarily. But I don't say where I'm going, I always say a little threatening after it. I think it is important that the sword of legislation should remain above the heads of these parties; that is what you are saying. That is why I asked in the first period whether it would be possible for the talks on and the conclusion of new agreements to be concluded, not the old agreements, because they already exist to indicate that if we do not enter into voluntary cooperation within a given period of time, legislation will in any case enter into force. That means you have to prepare it before you come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u195	Mrs. Diks, you started so well with short interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u196	That's an interesting suggestion. I'll come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u197	It is not clear to me what exactly is the Minister's attitude towards the treaty currently being discussed within the United Nations, the binding treaty on business and human rights. On the one hand, she says that we are thinking constructively, but on the other hand she says that we are still going to determine our position. If you think about something constructively and cooperate on it, then you eventually want such a treaty to come. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u198	There is still too much uncertainty about the form of the treaty as it has been tabled. A large number of important countries which have to play a role have at present completely separated themselves from the discussion. First of all, we need to understand better what the contours that can be on the table before we can say that we are going to be in favour of a treaty. I have already replied to this in the general consultation of the Committee on Foreign Trade. That is the position at the moment. It is impossible to commit to a very generic theme without knowing whether this channel and this process have any chance of success. The conversation within the European Union has not yet been properly channeled either. I am now committed to participating in this conversation within the European Union. I'll reconnect this separately to the Foreign Trade Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u199	We don't know the final text yet. It may have to be discussed for years to come, although I hope it can be done more quickly. But, of course, it's about the principle. Can you endorse the principle that there will be a treaty within the United Nations whereby companies are bound by certain human rights agreements? It's not just about the process, it's about the principle. My question to the Minister is whether she supports the principle that the Netherlands cooperates in the design of such a treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u200	I'll come back to this in the second term. I repeat my previous answer, but I am happy to come up with some other details on the Ruggie framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u201	I am curious to hear the answer in the second term. The minister said she's willing to do an interim evaluation. I thank her for that. I assume we can see them somewhere in the course of 2018. The Minister indicated that in a number of countries, such as England, France and Austria, different legislative pathways are under way. Is it prepared to investigate this and inform the Chamber of the possibilities of reaching a legal minimum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u202	The answer is yes. And to make you even happier: I have already put this question out and colleagues are already working.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u203	You will be served at your beck and call, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u204	I am also very pleased with the Minister's answers on the covenants. I had a student from Vlietland College visiting last week, Isabella de Munck. As a consumer, she would like to know how to buy fair clothing. I would like to encourage the Minister to see how we can ensure that Dutch citizens know what they are buying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u205	I think that's a very good suggestion. For example, in England there is an index called FTSE4Good. There you can measure companies not only by social entrepreneurship but also by other values and standards. So it's the client who decides whether to shop there or not. All kinds of ideas can be developed. I don't know if it's up to me. I think it's more about business, interest groups and others, but these are suggestions that we can certainly take with us. But I don't know if it's up to this ministry. I think it might be up to other colleagues and, of course, to the citizen. There's a lot of private initiative these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u206	Thank you. I think this was your first term. Or were you still at it? Are there any points of which you..
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u207	There is one final point: trade agreements. But that has been dealt with in part, Madam President. After that, I'll be all done. A number of Members have already asked for trade agreements. Of course, we continue to push for a result-oriented conclusion of negotiations within the World Trade Organisation. Not everything is going well, but we are working with other countries within the EU to ensure that progress can be made. We also believe that it is important to retain the support of citizens and businesses for these agreements through reporting, public information and the disclosure of negotiating mandates. Madam President. GroenLinks and D66 asked me about how trade agreements contribute to the international sustainability agenda, including, of course, implementation of the Paris climate agreement. Sustainability chapters are, in principle, always part of bilateral trade agreements and there is scope for broader agreements. At the same time, we must also, of course, ensure that the commitment to sustainable developments is not used as an excuse for protectionism. The Environmental Goods Agreement is an important step. The cabinet is a strong supporter of the EAEC. The Convention can make it cheaper for consumers to buy sustainable products and therefore companies benefit from increased demand. This is also expected to create more jobs. Unfortunately, the negotiations have been stalled, but we will be working on a new start, because we think it is very important. This also brings me back to the issue of citizens, who can then decide to buy more sustainably, provided that the information on the product is naturally available and is timely. Madam President, I am very pleased with the discussions and suggestions that have been made. I will, of course, be fully committed to an integrated and well-integrated policy note that effectively combines aid, trade and investment with sustainability and prosperity, including for the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u208	Mr. Hijink, there's also a second term. Do you have a burning question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u209	This minister owes me one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u210	Oh, that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u211	So I'll come back to that. We started this morning with Dani Rodrik. I told you a quote from him on the trade agreements: "We do not have to regret that the trade agreements are dead. We are wasting a lot of political capital on very little economic profit." This economist, who you quoted with such approval this morning, actually says that the trade agreements, as they stand now, are more of a lobby of business and far too little attention to the labour factor; therefore too much for capital and too little for labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u212	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u213	The question is: how does the Minister view this statement by this economist?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u214	It's possible. I talked to him, too. I found it incredibly interesting. Of course, he's a brilliant economist. It's also a political assessment. He has also said many other things about countries in development and the sustainability agenda. We always need investment. Of course, capital flows are changing tremendously. It is about regulation and, of course, taxation and investment. That is a very important element in trade agreements. The Netherlands benefits enormously from the current multilateral system and also makes a lot of money through it. Looking at the agreements recently concluded, I would not say that it is a recipe or method of the past. Improvement: yes, including, of course, the central theme of sustainability and a good, strong view of human rights. But to say it's an instrument of the past, no. I would honestly say that it can be risky in a world where everyone wants to fall back on protectionism and bilateralism. "One country first" will not necessarily benefit the Netherlands. Improving the instruments, yes. The relationship between labour and capital is quite a story. If you want to talk about multinationals and other forms of income, I would like to have another discussion on this in the Trade Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u215	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u216	Protectionism is not the answer. I agree directly with the Minister. Fair trade is the answer. This economist, Dani Rodrik, often cites the example of solar panels imported to Europe at dumped prices. Companies can then lodge complaints with the WTO or elsewhere. That is a form of protection for capital. At a time when workers in the Netherlands or in Europe suffer from low-paid workers in China or elsewhere, there is also an unfair form of competition going on, which they cannot then object to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u217	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u218	That is the dishonesty in these trade agreements. I ask the Minister whether she is prepared to resolve this unfairness in our trade policy in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u219	I think the situation is too simple. So I can't say yes to that. We are committed to fair trade and the sustainability agenda. I'll bet on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u220	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I understand that Members wish to negotiate the second-term submission of motions. That's why I'd like to suggest that we suspend for ten minutes. Let's just leave it at that. You want to suspend for longer? Everything is being negotiated in the Chamber these days! Oh, my God! No, after ten minutes, we'll just continue with the second term from the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u221	You're still trying to stretch the suspension to 15 minutes, I see. We will continue with the second term from the side of the Chamber. After the second term, I'll suspend for lunch. Then we'll vote. Then the Minister will comment on any questions and motions that have been tabled. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer, for the answers she has been able to give today. Of course, we would like to look forward to the rest of the answer. It is a sad observation that the countless billions of financial aid to the Third World over the last few decades have not, on balance, delivered what was hoped for. I therefore called on colleagues here yesterday to start a serious discussion with the PVV on the right of existence of the current OS policy. I have to say that there is no enthusiasm for this. For this cabinet, too, this is absolutely unspeakable. The Minister said quite clearly: I am going to implement policy; we do not have to agree with everyone, that is what the elections are for. That is a direct appeal from the Minister to a third of the Dutch population who wants a stop to development aid to vote for the PVV. We are very pleased with that call and we endorse it with enthusiasm. The other parties also do not dare to discuss it. People look away, sometimes literally, during the PVV contribution. Several colleagues also found it very annoying that I presented their facts. I'd always highlight some of the crappy projects. Have a look at the website openaid.nl, I'd like to tell them. Just click on some projects. Then you can see for yourself that they are not exceptions. Moreover, if the projects I mentioned as an example are not positive examples, let us stop them. I conclude that it's obviously very annoying when the truth comes to spoil your charity party. We heard great stories yesterday from all the parties. But if you actually stand up for women's rights, you can't support Sharia courts. If you really stand up for the poorest in the world, you can't also support billions of companies like Apple with Dutch tax money. I therefore hope that the following motions will receive broad support in the Chamber. I am pleased that the Minister has promised to look at it again, so these motions may have been seen as an encouragement. I'll start with the first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands contributes financially to strengthening the rule of law in Somalia, including to strengthening the influence of formal law in the regions;]] [[Considering that the current Somali constitution states that Sharia is the basis of all law in Somalia and that laws and rules should not go against Sharia and that the Dutch Government recognises this;]] [[noting that Somalia is a member of the OIC and thereby endorses the Cairo Declaration of Islamic Human Rights which states that Islamic Sharia is the starting point;]] [[Notes that it is totally unacceptable that Dutch taxpayers' money should be used to finance courts where law will be spoken on the basis of barbaric Sharia;]] [[calls on the Government to stop financing the legal sector in Somalia immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weerdenburg and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u223	I think the PVV is now filing almost the same motion as last time. Yesterday, Mrs Van Weerdenburg, you questioned several colleagues about this too. Only now you are talking about stopping support for the legal sector in Somalia. That is, of course, different from subsidising Sharia courts. If you want to stand up for the women in Somalia and if you do not want them to fall victim to Sharia legislation, do you really want to invest in the legal sector in that country so that the lawyers and human rights organisations can stand up for these people? I do not think it is surprising that the whole Chamber voted against this motion if you want to withdraw all the support for the people who are going to support these women in Somalia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u224	Mr Hijink is actually making exactly my point. It is true that we have had this discussion with Mr Koenders and Mr Ploumen. We have asked: what exactly is being supported? The argument was that people are now at the mercy of Al-Shabaab courts that judge on the basis of Sharia. But the official courts supported by this money are governed by Somali law, which is therefore based on Sharia. Nor does the Minister deny it. I have literally asked what the added value is for an adulterous Somali woman when she is stoned by an official court instead of Al-Shabaab's. There was simply no proper response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u225	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u226	And what if this woman were to have an interest in a good lawyer, a human rights activist defending this woman's rights? What if this money is meant to fight Sharia law in the country? That is why, in my view, the entire Chamber is voting against this type of proposal from the PVV. So you're turning it around exactly. In that very small sense, you are talking about the whole legal sector. You're not talking about Sharia courts. You're talking about the whole legal sector. So you are also talking about the companies, about the organisations, about the activists and about the lawyers who stand up for these people. You're shaving it all over a comb. You're gonna be in a hell of a mess, and so this whole Chamber is gonna be voting against this kind of motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u227	Perhaps Mr. Hijink is not a lawyer. You can still have such a good lawyer, but the very lawyer has to do with the law in force in that country. The applicable Somali law is simply based on Sharia. The Minister has admitted that. This was under the guise of: this is a provisional constitution and yes, it says Sharia, but we hope that by talking to them in the next version of 2020, Sharia will be abandoned. That's totally unrealistic. And again, the law in force is now based on Sharia. I can't help it, either. I hope that Mr Hijink agrees with me that this is simply absurd and therefore supports this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u228	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u229	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas billions of companies such as Apple and Intel do not need financial support from the Dutch taxpayer for the extraction of raw materials for their production process;]] [[calls on the Government to cease all financial support to the European Partnership for Responsible Minerals immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Weerdenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u230	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch have traditionally been very generous and can very well decide for themselves whether, and if so, to what charity they donate their money to;]] [[calls on the government not to spend another penny on development aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Weerdenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u232	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Becker of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank the Minister for her answers in her term. I started my first term with an ode to trade. I have called on the Minister to support trade and the importance of Dutch industry. Companies want to conquer the world with their beautiful products. It is their own ambition to earn 40% of GDP with that trade. I'm glad the Minister has promised me that support. I am also very curious about the impact it will take on business together. To strengthen this power, I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch trade has more than 2.2 million jobs and 32% of GDP is dependent on them;]] [[Whereas this is not self-evident and entrepreneurs deserve support in order to continue to conquer and improve the world with their products and innovations in the future;]] [[whereas industry itself has set an ambitious target of earning 40% of GDP in trade by 2030;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to present a proactive trade agenda addressing at least the needs of entrepreneurs for access to finance, better information and greater pooling of resources in regions and strong sectors;]] [[invites the Cabinet to offer it to the Chamber before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Becker, Mr Bouali, Mr Voordewind and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u234	Mr. Chairman. We have discussed with the Minister the additional means of government agreement that have become available, with a priority for emergency aid, reception in the region and addressing the root causes of, among other things, migration and poverty. The Minister sent a letter of amendment. I am very curious to hear the answer it is going to give in the second term to the question of whether the Court will be able to inform the Court of Auditors of the breakdown of resources before the end of the year. I would like to ask her whether she can go into the resources available for emergency aid in the second period. How is it going to ensure that, if calamities occur in the world that require additional emergency aid funding, not everything is already invested and therefore additional money should be added from the general funds? I'm curious about her response to that. Under the term "emergency aid," we also talked about CERF. The VVD has said that it is a good vehicle, but that it is not good that the Netherlands, as a very small country, is leading the way to always pulling the wallet and that many other countries make no or very small contribution. The Minister said he wanted to raise this issue with other countries but could not promise success, so I have a motion for a resolution on this too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that with a contribution of 60.6 million euros in 2017, the Netherlands is the third donor in the world of the total 380 million euros in CERF, the UN Emergency Fund;]] [[noting that there are still many countries that do not make a contribution or make a small contribution, such as Saudi Arabia, China, Italy and Belgium, and that the fund does not have sufficient capital;]] [[Considers that immediate engagement should be possible in the event of acute humanitarian crises without the need to demand an additional contribution from the most active donor countries over and over again;]] [[calls on the government, at UN level, to urge other countries to also make a substantial and structural contribution to CERF, to align the Dutch contribution to this and to inform the Chamber of the results as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u235	Mr. Chairman. We have talked a lot today about the importance of innovation, also in relation to emergency aid. I would ask the Minister, in her second term, to consider whether innovation can also play a role in reception in the region. For example, I am talking about innovative solutions for solar use in tent camps. How does it intend to stimulate this type of innovation from the Netherlands in the context of reception in the region? Finally. I am very pleased that the Minister has indicated that she agrees with the VVD that we need to ensure that the resources available for aid also have effect, that we need to make that clear, that we are going to include policy conclusions in the budget and the annual report every year, and that we can adjust the policy if it does not work. The VVD will continue to look closely at this, because it is our goal that money for help really ends up with people, so that they have a better life in their own country. And it is our goal that we as the Netherlands will conquer the world with our beautiful products. I have good hopes that we will include trade in the budget, not only in word but also in indicators and manageable objectives. I look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u236	Thank you, Mrs Becker. I give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u237	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for her first reply. I see and I see a lot of opportunities for realising better foreign trade policy and development cooperation in the coming years. I really see many opportunities to contribute to this from GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. I don't have much time left, so I'd like to start reading my motions, in case things get out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u238	How many motions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u239	Five. Sit down for it. All very nice motions, of course, you understand. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this year again a huge amount, 534 million, of money for development cooperation is being spent on first-year asylum shelter in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that the ODA allocation for first-year asylum shelter is moving along with the highly fluctuating influx of asylum seekers and that this has a very negative impact on the stability of the budget for development cooperation and external trade;]] [[calls on the government to limit the allocation of ODA for first-year asylum care to EUR 250 million from the next financial year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Hijink and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u240	Mr. Chairman. I have paid a great deal of attention to it in my contribution, because I find it incredibly important to try to restore agricultural land. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the African Sahel region loses 50 kilometres of agricultural land each year to the Sahara, resulting in a lack of food, water and employment, which in turn leads to a decline in political and military stability in the region;]] [[Whereas the desertification of the Sahel region due to the abovementioned effects constitutes an important push factor in migration to the EU and, in addition, accelerates global warming;]] [[Whereas Dutch agriculture could make an important contribution to this and thus effectively link the Dutch foreign trade and development cooperation policy;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the Netherlands can effectively promote the recovery of agricultural land in the Sahara region in the Sahel region and to inform the Chamber in the new policy paper of a plan of action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Global Financing Facility supports countries' initiatives to reduce child and maternal mortality and improve the health of women, children and young adults through smart and focused investments, and recently launched an initiative to close the global shortage of funding to prevent child and maternal mortality;]] [[whereas the Netherlands may, by means of an initial contribution, join the Global Financing Facility Trust Fund by September 2018 at the latest, and thereby participate in the decision on the use of the funds;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether the Netherlands can join the Global Financing Facility Trust Fund, and to inform the Chamber in a letter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Netherlands has committed itself to the Sustainable Development Goals and that this has implications not only for Dutch foreign policy, but also for national consideration as to whether and how new rules will bring the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals closer;]] [[Whereas a study carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has shown that only 30% of listed companies under investigation are committed to compliance with the OECD guidelines;]] [[Calls on the Government to add a paragraph to legislative proposals from now on in the explanatory memorandum setting out how the proposal contributes to achieving the SDGs;]] [[calls on the Government to argue in the explanatory memorandum how the legislation contributes to compliance with OECD guidelines by companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Diks, Mr Dijkgraaf, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-22]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-23]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u241	Mr. Chairman. I'm aware I've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u242	That is all at the expense of GroenLinks' speaking time, later on, with another budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u243	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u244	That's gonna be a fight in your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u245	Hopefully no one saw this! Exhaustion of national law. This is an old motion that has been tabled in an earlier consultation on trade policy and investment promotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u246	You don't have to read the motion. It's an earlier motion, so if you mention the number...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u247	No, I sent the motion around earlier. I'm just reading the operative part. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to organise the proposed multilateral investment court in such a way that it could only be called upon after the entire national court process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u248	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate and thank the Minister for the clear and careful answer we have given to our questions. A nice basis for further cooperation. We are pleased with the trend break that has been put in place. Yesterday, therefore, I made it clear that the CDA does not want to see the funds available for 2018, until the Minister has clearly identified its priorities and what criteria it is applying. Of course, we do have our preferences and ideas to spend this extra money on. We would therefore like to examine the possibilities for increasing the ARC fund. We welcome the additional resources for emergency aid, as the Minister has already promised in the second letter of amendment. In particular, we would like to draw attention to the position of women, trafficking in human beings, the fight against prostitution and the commitment to education. What is not quite clear to me is how the Minister intends to tackle specifically the issue of combating prostitution. If the Minister would like to explain this further, please, he can do so with a letter. The CDA opts for a careful approach, so that the 190 million currently available is spent as effectively as possible. In the coalition agreement, we agreed to focus on policy. However, we do not want to see an immediate increase in the amount of our own spearheads highlighted and the policy shredded in such a way. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions on the definition of criteria on the basis of which we are going to spend the extra funds for OS. As has been said, we consider the focus and efficiency to be very important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is necessary for the government to define the criteria it will apply to the choice and prioritisation of the focus countries and Africa;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up clear criteria and to send them to the Chamber in good time before the policy paper is published,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Bouali. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-43775-XVII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u249	Mr. Chairman. There are many initiatives on women's rights and SRGR coming from the Chamber. We believe that this should lead to a coherent policy in which all wishes must be taken into account as far as possible. I see this as an assignment to the Minister. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are many different initiatives to strengthen the position of women;]] [[calls on the Government to share as soon as possible a coherent vision of the Dutch international women's rights policy with the Chamber, taking into account the various specific wishes of the Chamber and the existing funds and existing policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u250	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my colleague Mustafa Amhaouch the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a great deal of knowledge about the agro-food sector and water;]] [[noting that these are very important issues for achieving the SDGs;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is contributing in particular to the strengthening of food value chains, addressing climate change and addressing the root causes of migration;]] [[noting that there is an ongoing expansion of industry, in cooperation with civil society organisations and knowledge institutes such as Wageningen University, to innovative technologies in emerging countries;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise this knowledge position of the Netherlands in the field of water and food and to make the most of it in international trade policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Bouali, Mr Voordewind and Mr Dijkgraaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u251	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u252	For my group's consideration of whether or not to support the motion that was tabled last, I think it is important to know whether the CDA Group also sees the use of Dutch knowledge in the field of agriculture from the point of view of food as a human right. If that is not the case, we may not agree and we still have some doubts about the implementation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u253	I think my colleague explained yesterday how we see it. I see another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u254	No, Mrs. Ouwehand first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u255	I understand that the CDA Group is prepared to do so, but I would like to confirm that in order to consider this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u256	I can confirm what Mr Amhaouch said yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u257	That sounds like a very sensible text. If Mrs. Kuik says the same about my question, we're done. I understand that she had to table the motion of the colleague, but I had actually co-signed the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u258	Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u259	So Mrs. Kuik also agrees that Mr. Amhaouch is okay with it...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u260	You're underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u261	Am I even underneath it? Then it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u262	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u263	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. I'll skip Mr. Amhaouch, because you've spoken on his behalf. Then I'll go to Mr. Hijink, from the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for all the answers this morning, although I must say that many questions have not yet been answered. But I suppose we'll meet a lot in the near future. That's gonna be all right. For the sake of time, I will now file the motions. I do not know where Mr Bouali is now, but it is not 48 motions, but 2. So that's not so bad. The first motion concerns the situation in Yemen. We discussed this briefly today. The situation is harrowing. If we are not careful, nearly 1 million people will suffer from the cholera epidemic that is going on there. The SP would like to respond to the emergency call we received from emergency workers. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the war in Yemen has already killed more than 10,000 people, made 3 million homeless, threatened millions of people by famine and is currently the worst cholera outbreak in the world;]] [[Whereas hundreds of staff have been unable to enter or leave Yemen for weeks due to the blockade of the country by the international coalition led by Saudi Arabia;]] [[calls on the Government, through all possible diplomatic channels and towards all members of the coalition, to call for the lifting of the blockade under the leadership of Saudi Arabia, so that war law can be respected and structural access for aid workers and their goods can be granted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are contextual differences in the flexible employability of emergency services;]] [[Considers that this should be kept under constant review by ensuring on-the-spot effectiveness, trust of local parties, proven capacity for scalable assistance and proven access to the most vulnerable, including women and girls;]] [[noting that in the coming months the Cabinet is considering how flexibility in the use of emergency aid can be developed;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain these criteria as a guide to the financing framework for emergency aid,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink, Mr Karabulut and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-29]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u265	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for her fine answers. We share the importance of effective development cooperation and trade. We can combat the root causes of migration and reduce poverty and eradicate hunger. That is why it is good that we are finally investing again in development cooperation and in the trade agenda. I would like to dwell on a number of points in this second period. First of all, I will take you all to Morocco. The Minister has written on how the motion is being carried out. Four sector studies will be carried out and a look will be made to establish a breeding ground for start-ups in Morocco aimed at promoting entrepreneurship among local young people. That's very nice. After all, Morocco is an important partner for the Netherlands and a country in the ring around Europe. Is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber of progress and can it share the results of these studies with the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of women's rights and SRGR. The Netherlands has an excellent international reputation in the field of the promotion of women's rights and SRGR. We must, above all, continue to do so. To underline this, I have a motion on this subject, which is also supported by Mr Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u266	Before you proceed, Mr Kuzu has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u267	It is right that Mr Bouali should draw attention to the situation in the Moroccan Rif. Is he also prepared to support a proposal to meet the needs of people who are being addressed there? People are asking for schools, hospitals, roads and infrastructure. Entrepreneurship is important, but is Mr Bouali, is D66, also prepared to support a proposal that addresses the needs of the present?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u268	I do not know whether Mr Kuzu has seen or read the Minister's answers, but all these subjects are included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u269	I did read the answers. I'm going to put forward a proposal on the needs of the people right now, in the areas of hospitals, schools and roads. Then I'm counting on D66's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u270	I'll be happy to see it and I'll look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u271	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u272	Thank you, Madam President. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands has a leading role in promoting women's rights and sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRGR);]] [[Whereas the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals explicitly includes gender equality;]] [[whereas SRGR is a basic right and that any woman anywhere in the world should have the choice or whenever she wants to have children;]] [[noting that SRGR has been included as an explicit priority in the coalition agreement Trust in the future;]] [[invites the Chamber to explain to the new policy paper containing the agenda for development cooperation, trade and investment the way in which this priority is implemented and the financial resources allocated to it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bouali and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u273	Mr. Chairman. I also asked about Serious Request. The Minister seemed benevolent and talked about a contribution which she will come back to later. So I'm patiently waiting for that answer. Then the final point, trade. I am pleased that the Minister is well aware of the importance of trade for the Netherlands. It is an important subject, and that it also carries out the D66 credo 'think and trade internationally' in words and deeds. I would actually like to think and act more internationally occasionally in the Chamber; so I am also in favour of using terms that are not always in Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u274	That's your right. You say it to me, but it's not about me, it's about the people outside the room. I give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I broke a number of lances here for heroines like Amal Bascha from Yemen, for local organisations and trade unions, for investing in education and especially for investing in equal opportunities and rights for women and girls. Not because it has to, but because it works. Fortunately, I am told that at least the Minister agrees with us, and that is what we hope for constructive cooperation in the coming period. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that education is one of the basic conditions for economic and social development;]] [[noting that access for girls and women to education is not self-evident in many countries;]] [[Whereas promoting equal rights and opportunities for women starts with investing in education;]] [[calls on the government to have education play a prominent role in OS and to inform the Spring Paper Chamber of efforts in this area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, despite current efforts to promote equal rights and opportunities, insufficient progress has been made worldwide;]] [[noting the lack of an overarching government-wide gender policy;]] [[calls on the government to develop an overarching gender policy and to achieve gender mainstreaming in cabinet policy and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible, at the latest for the Spring paper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the scope for women's rights defenders, conservationists, grassroots organisations and trade unions is increasingly under pressure worldwide;]] [[noting that smaller organisations, with knowledge of the local context, are also essential to reach the most vulnerable;]] [[noting that specific programmes designed to strengthen these organisations and increase security for activists are not sufficiently accessible;]] [[Calls on the Government to improve access to existing funding frameworks for local organisations and trade unions and to release sufficient specialised capacity at the embassies and the ministry to this end;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of this matter prior to the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas diaspora plays an important role in the development supported by the Netherlands in countries of origin;]] [[calls on the Government to actively involve diaspora organisations in the development and implementation of new policies affecting the countries of origin concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Hijink, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Bouali and Mr Diks.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-32]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Diks and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-34]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Diks, Mr Hijink, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for her passionate answers. It shows commitment to the subject, great commitment to poverty reduction and trade, that dual agenda. So I look forward to further cooperation with the Minister. I've got three motions, which I'm gonna read straight away. The first one is about Dutch Relief Alliance, the emergency collaboration. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the coalition agreement provides that the successful Dutch Relief Alliance (DRA) cluster will continue;]] [[Notes that in recent years the Dutch cooperation organisations within the DRA have had EUR 60 million per year, with which emergency aid programmes have been set up in Syria, Northern Iraq, South Sudan, Somalia and Yemen, among others;]] [[Notes that the Dutch Relief Alliance is in any event continued during this cabinet period with settled goals and assessments based on the government agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to provide EUR 60 million for emergency aid through the DRA in 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Bouali, Mr Kuik and Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u277	Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the causes of poverty reduction and migration. To this end, I am trying to give the Minister an impetus, particularly with regard to the note she is going to make. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that African young people often lack access to financial resources, vocational training, entrepreneurship and integration into the labour market;]] [[Whereas the new Cabinet intends to contribute to addressing the root causes of poverty, migration, instability and climate change;]] [[Calls on the Government to put forward proposals in the policy paper to scale up the Addressing Root Causes Fund (ARC) aimed at providing prospects for African young people by promoting employment and entrepreneurship;]] [[calls on the government to continue to focus the fund on civil society organisations and to give space to civil society organisations to cooperate with companies and knowledge institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u278	In that note which the Minister is going to make, she will undoubtedly also talk about the national climate fund and its implementation. I'd like to give her the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a national climate fund is included in the development cooperation budget;]] [[Whereas climate change has a serious impact on the poorest and increasingly leads to drought, food shortages, floods and conflicts;]] [[Whereas sustainable development, water management, access to renewable energy, food security and the protection and restoration of ecosystems, viability and economic development in, inter alia, the drying-out Sub-Sahara and Sahel are important;]] [[calls on the Government to mobilise the Climate Fund for a combined approach to climate and development, in particular for climate resilience, the preservation of vital ecosystems and the promotion of social and economic development in low-income countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Bouali and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u279	Finally, I support Mr Bouali's plea to support the public action Serious Request wherever possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u280	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering and defending her first budget. The Party for Animals looks forward to many inspiring debates with her. We have good hope of this because the Minister has shown that he is in favour of an open spirit. Look, we can really use that, given the huge challenges we face! I would like to inform the Minister that, in all the objections she will encounter in real commitment to sustainability and fairness towards developing countries and in our trade policy, there will be concerns that this might affect us economically for a while. The nasty thing is, we are totally dependent on what the Earth has to offer us and the people in developing countries are in the first place. Since 1971, humanity as a whole, we have been producing more raw materials than the Earth can deliver annually. The term for that is "Earth Overshoot Day," so the moment we're through our year's supply. In 1971 it was on December 21st, so we only lived a few days of that year on the puff. This year, that day, when we were through all the raw materials already, fell on 2 August. We now live almost five months a year on raw materials that we don't have. This is already at the expense of people in developing countries and, of course, in the not too long term of future generations. So we have to get rid of old ways of thinking. I brought for the Minister the book of Kate Raworth, who says: let us not blindly stick to economic growth as a holy grail, but invent other ways. I'm handing that book over to the minister through the messenger for inspiration. In her model, the author takes into account this huge ecological deficit. We have already read the book, which is why I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that since 1971 we have been using more raw materials every year than the earth can reproduce annually without damage;]] [[noting that there is now an ecological deficit of more than 35%;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that its (trade) policy does not in any case lead to an increase in the ecological deficit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u281	A second motion, which relates to this: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas combating climate change is at odds with promoting free trade;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the fight against climate change is always leading over the promotion of economic growth and free trade,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u282	Thank you, Mr President. In this debate, I have paid a great deal of attention to one of the choices we will have to make. In the world food supply, do we choose primarily from the idea that access to sufficient and nutritious food is a human right, or do we remain half stuck in a model in which we see food primarily as a commodity? The latter is not going to help to get the hunger out of the world; hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the UN rapporteur on the right to food recommends that a human rights approach be adopted to ensure food security, including in the long term;]] [[says that food should be approached primarily as human rights,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Diks and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u283	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that food is a basic supply;]] [[calls on the government to keep food outside free trade agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u284	Mr President, thank you. I look forward to working closely with the new minister. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u285	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u286	Thank you, Madam President. Compliments to the Minister for the clear answer. Classy, as far as I'm concerned, 'cause after a few weeks, it's a lot of ground coming your way. You will notice that the Minister has experience in the international field, and that will help, of course. Mr. Chairman. I actually had three motions in preparation, but I'm of the kind that I don't get them if there are good answers. The first motion helped the CDA colleague, who had a slightly better text than myself on the importance of agriculture. I think and I also hope that the Minister will pay close attention in the coming years to the fact that the expertise available in agriculture is also being used for development cooperation. In particular, the poorest in the world benefit from this. The second motion dealt with the choice of countries. I thought the Minister had a fine text on that. I was actually a little worried that the focus on reception in the region would empty the budget for regular aid, especially in Africa, but I listened carefully to the Minister and she said she would make a substantive analysis based on all the goals we have. I would also like to see a focus on the poorest in the Minister's policy on this issue. We are waiting for the Minister to weigh up, and I hope that we will not simply reduce investment if we have invested in certain countries for years. Listening to this minister, however, I suspect that if she comes up with a proposal, she will have a good story. Otherwise, of course, we will question her very critically. Nor will she expect otherwise; that is our job. I had a motion on this, but I am not submitting it. The third motion dealt with the sustainable development goals test. I would advise everyone to vote against Mr Bouali's motion, because to start using English, French and Spanish now in this Chamber... We've done that in history, but we don't have to do that anymore. So let's do a sustainable development test. I liked the Minister's text on this point, namely that she looks closely at how it can be done. It has to have effect, of course, because if you do it in the wrong way, it has disadvantages. You can also do it in such a way that it is beautiful what you do, but ultimately it has no effect whatsoever. No one's waiting for that either. So I await the work of the Minister, but ask her when she will be able to come forward with a letter on this matter. I myself have that in mind for the summer of 2018, but I would like to hear the Minister about that. Finally, I would remind the Minister of my question on gendercide, but I'm sure she hasn't forgotten it. You always look very closely at us when we stand up for women's rights. This is a subject that we say really goes wrong. The previous cabinet bet on that. We would like to see the continuation of that policy, if only with a little bit more on top of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u287	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u288	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for her answers. In any case, I am pleased that she does not want to become the Minister for Migration Reduction. Should that threaten, under pressure from one or more coalition parties, we will, of course, call the bell. We are also pleased that it does not want to be blinded to limiting the effects of migration and everything related to it. A much broader vision, we are pleased. Mr President, acceptance is important, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the importance of public information on development cooperation and its results;]] [[Considering that next year's budget for information in the field of development cooperation will fall by some 70% and that this may put pressure on this effort;]] [[calls on the Government to make full use of cooperation between departments and cooperation with civil society organisations to ensure that society is adequately informed about development cooperation and the results of development cooperation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u289	Mr President, a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an evaluation of Save the Children and four other organisations shows that one quarter of the Rohingya children under 5 years of age who fled Myanmar to Bangladesh in the last two months suffer from acute malnutrition;]] [[noting that one third of these children are severely malnourished and are nine times more likely to die than non-malnutritiond children;]] [[calls on the Government to take urgent action to reduce acute malnutrition under refugee Rohingya children and to seek international cooperation here,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u290	Mr. Chairman. We just talked about the needs in the Moroccan Rif. Yes, it is important that research is done to develop a future perspective, but it is also about basic facilities at the moment, schools, hospitals and roads. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Moroccan Rif there is a need for the development of basic facilities such as schools, hospitals and roads;]] [[calls on the Government to release a substantial amount of financial resources to contribute to the development of basic facilities in the Moroccan Rif,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XVII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-23-tweedekamer-4.u291	As announced earlier, we're going to suspend until 2:00 p.m. Then we shall begin voting and then we shall continue this debate.
