ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the initiator, Mr Van der Staaij, to the Upper House. I have already welcomed the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the initiator on this initiative. The right of initiative is a beautiful and important right and its exercise in practice remains special. When we debate an initiative proposal in this House, this has taken the first hurdle: acceptance by the House of Representatives. In this case, not everything has been said about the special character. It is not often that an initiative comes from the group of the SGP and it is certainly not often that it is a proposal to amend the Constitution. More than ten years ago it was brought before the House of Representatives and for a long time it led a calm existence. It was suddenly given momentum with the broader political and social debate over recent years on the relationship between citizens, the national state and the EU. The question of the intrinsic significance and value of this proposal is therefore more than just a technical constitutional issue, but is more broadly embedded in a discussion on the checks-and-balances in European decision-making. In substance, the proposal is as simple as it is intriguing. EU Treaties conferring competence on the EU or decisions to simplify the amendment of the EU Treaties require parliamentary approval by at least two thirds of the votes cast. The same applies to treaties concerning the accession of new Member States to the EU. How should we assess this proposal? Is this a motion of censure against the EU or is the Dutch system subject to a weighted approval procedure more aligned with most other EU Member States? Does the proposal mean a constitutional change in the Netherlands or does it accentuate a principle that is already largely enshrined in Dutch law? Think of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. Does it have the effect of bringing Europe to a standstill by the Netherlands or will it contribute to stronger support and thus greater legitimacy for EU decisions? Will effective governance in the EU be hampered or will the transfer of powers be more consciously handled and it calls on the EU and Contracting Parties to make greater use of the power of persuasion and vision? Will it weaken or strengthen the principle of subsidiarity in the Treaty? I would like to invite the initiator to explain his views on the above. My group still has a few questions about the scope and implications of the concrete proposal. Provisions in treaties which differ or require derogations from the Constitution should be adopted by two thirds of the votes cast in accordance with the current Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. Could the initiator give examples of the independent meaning of the proposed fourth paragraph in addition to the requirement already in the third paragraph? Does the initiator see any concrete Treaty changes in the future which would fall under the fourth paragraph but not under the third paragraph? Does the initiator specifically want to highlight the importance of strengthening parliamentary support for this? Has my group understood correctly that trade agreements and agreements such as the Turkey deal are not covered by the proposal? Does this also apply to treaty changes brought about by the Brexit? The proposed sixth paragraph of Article 91 also lays down the requirement of two thirds of the votes cast for the parliamentary approval of the accession of new Member States. Does my group see it right that if this proposal had already been law, Romania and Bulgaria had not been granted parliamentary approval in the Netherlands and that this would have been the case for the other enlargements? Does the initiator see a guarantee against premature or light-hearted accession decisions in making this demand? Can the initiator, for the sake of clarity, list which potential entrants to the EU are currently present? I would like to make a few comments on the significance of the proposed mechanism in the wider context of the debate on the relationship between citizens, the national state and the European Union. Since the Maastricht Treaty, the principle of subsidiarity has been explicitly applied in the relationship between the national state and the EU. When the Treaty of Lisbon was drawn up, the subsidiarity mechanism was strengthened and it was even called that the national parliaments were the "great victors" of the Treaty amendment. In practice, this principle and its mechanisms are difficult to implement within the European legislative machinery. Does the proposer see a relationship with the principle of subsidiarity in his proposal? And if so, does it actually contribute to this? In the meantime, we have gained the first experience with the referendum law with the Ukraine referendum. Lack of public support for legislation, even when it involves the adoption of European treaties, can now be easily exposed through a referendum. How does the initiator see the relationship between his proposal and the referendum law? In his view, for example, can the need to obtain an increased parliamentary majority and therefore strong parliamentary support weaken the need or the desire to hold a referendum? The government has undertaken to establish before 1 March a State Committee on Parliamentary System, which is to give broad advice on the functioning and future of the Dutch parliamentary system. A theme such as that proposed in this legislative proposal could certainly be addressed there, in conjunction with other themes. Perhaps the spokesperson of the VVD Group will table a motion on this matter shortly. How does the initiator view the inclusion of such a mission in the mandate of such a committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u3	On that last point, I have a question for Mrs Van Bijsterveld. She asks why we do not submit the subject matter of the bill to a state committee. But in 2003 we have already received a very thorough report on this matter. Following the motion-Jurgens c.s. Utrecht University had done research on this. A few years ago, the Constitutional Affairs Committee looked at the same issue and made its views on it. We can keep going and re-present it to a state committee. But what new insights does Mrs Van Bijsterveld expect? What white spots would there be left?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u4	I believe that the future State Committee can assess this proposal on the basis of the state of play of the current constitutional discussions. I think that the necessary has happened in about 15 years. At the time when the previous state committees advised, there was no referendum law and there was no experience of that either. That is why I explicitly made the link between the referendum law and this proposal. So there is clearly another constitutional situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u5	I would like to thank Mrs Van Bijsterveld for this answer. As far as I'm concerned, it's a little more colored. After all, it has raised a lot of questions. But I think Mrs Van Bijsterveld is very neutral now. I didn't know her like that. I would like to remind you of the motion for a resolution of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. That motion was co-tabled by the CDA in 2001. It stated that there was nevertheless a constitutional imbalance that a simple majority of the House could transfer such far-reaching powers to the EU. Does the CDA see the problem that was identified and that the CDA saw at the time, now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u6	Oh, yeah. That is why I have previously raised the dilemmas in my contribution which this proposal also brings to our group. In any case, the proposal poses dilemmas from a constitutional point of view. You can look at it in different ways. You can look at it with a very positive look, but you can also put a number of objections to it. I think that these dilemmas will have to play a role in the process of weighing up. Before we make our own assessment, I would like to hear the initiator and the Minister. I come at the same time to the conclusion of my contribution. My group looks forward to the comments and answers of the initiator and asks the Minister to respond to the same questions. I say this in order to complete the answer to Mr Van Dijk's question. My group will carefully involve these answers and reactions in the consideration of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. We welcome the initiator, and of course the Minister, to our Chamber. We sincerely admire his commitment to achieving the most effective involvement of Parliament and society in decision-making on the European Union. The legislative proposal aims to amend the Constitution to introduce the requirement of a two-thirds majority of the States-General for the adoption of treaties on the European Union. The initiative proposal dates back to 2006. It was perhaps inspired at the time by the drafting of a constitution for Europe, which died in referenda in France and the Netherlands. Since 2006, of course, a lot of water has gone through the Rhine. The Lisbon Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was concluded in 2007 and entered into force in 2009. I would point out that this treaty has considerably strengthened the position of national parliaments and that the Dutch Parliament also regularly uses its new powers. The economic and monetary stability pact was established, also after extensive participation and involvement of national parliaments, including both chambers in the Netherlands. Many agreements have been concluded with external partner countries, of which we have also discussed several in our States-General in the framework of the approval procedure. We recall that treaties that deviate from our Constitution already have the high threshold of a two-thirds majority under Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. Moreover, we are now also aware of the possibility of an advisory referendum. In the opinion of the PvdA Group, treaty-reading cooperation within the EU is essential to achieve important public objectives, whether they are important for the Netherlands in terms of economic and financial flows, the fight against fraud and crime or social affairs, including the promotion of human rights. I ask the initiator whether he shares with us the premise that European cooperation is essential and that, on balance, it is good for the Netherlands. If that is the case, do not at least threaten two dangers? The first is that, on adoption of its proposal, EU decision-making will, however necessary, be locked up. This is not entirely unimaginable in the light of all kinds of recent developments. Is there not a danger that the initiator's proposal will cripple the European Union? The second danger is that the European Commission and the European Council will try to circumvent the royal procedure of a treaty or its amendment by resorting to directives and regulations which do not require national parliamentary approval. We cannot imagine that the initiator is looking for a lame European Union or is trying to circumvent parliamentary procedures, but it may be the consequence of his legislative proposal. I would like a response from both the initiator and the government. These are important practical objections. My group also has a number of reservations in principle. The first concerns the legitimacy of the decision-making requirement in two-thirds majority. In the reply, the initiator states that he wants to strengthen "the legitimacy of the European treaties within representative democracy." As I pointed out at the beginning of my contribution, EU treaties are regularly concluded. Parliamentary involvement is foreseen, both through the enhanced role of national parliaments in the front portal and through national approval procedures in the final phase. In what way is democratic legitimacy served if a minority of a third plus one can block all decision-making? What is legitimate about that, what is democratic about it, what is representative of it? So I ask both the initiator and the government. The second objection in principle concerns the additional exception clause in paragraph 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u8	Now that Mr Schrijver has arrived at the objections in principle, I would like to raise a point of order. Mr Schrijver says, a bit rhetorical: what is democratic about a strengthened parliamentary majority? I would ask: what is democratic about the fact that a third of this Chamber can stop a constitutional change? Would you like to get rid of that from a democratic point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u9	No, I certainly don't want to, because you can't just change the Constitution. That is why it contains two readings: in the first phase by a simple majority and then by a two-thirds majority, to know for sure that the text is fully ripe and widely worn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u10	Clear. That is how I know Mr Schrijver; very carefully. But is it not particularly logical to ask for a strengthened parliamentary majority for EU treaties, which could have the same impact on our national legal order? In short, I refer to the motion for a resolution, your predecessor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u11	I find your phrase "same impact" rather vague. Paragraph 3 of the article that your political party is now trying to change states that a strengthened parliamentary majority is necessary as soon as there are treaties that entail an amendment to our Constitution. That makes sense to me. Mrs Van Bijsterveld has asked very good questions about this. I look forward to answering that. What is the added value of paragraph 4 and the following in relation to the already existing paragraph 3?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u12	I note that the problem identified in the Juvenile motion is not seen in this way anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u13	I thought the Juvenile's motion was a day older. It dates back to at least a long time before the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon. It is not for nothing that it is said that national parliaments are the great winners in the Treaty of Lisbon. I have asked questions about this and I await the answer. I am sure I speak in the spirit of Mr Jurgens when I put the emphasis on that. But, of course, I am delighted that you are so inspired by my famous predecessor. I was in favour of the second objection in principle. This concerns the additional exception clause in paragraph 4. By letter of amendment, Mr Van der Staaij added in 2014 that the increased approval procedure of EU treaties or amendments thereto does not apply if "a treaty only provides for the transfer of powers of the European Union to its Member States." This is a highly remarkable exception clause in the only key paragraph of the legislative proposal. Such a transfer of powers from the EU to its Member States, also known as renationalisation, can have a very profound impact on both the Dutch and the European constitutional order. We do not understand the justification for this exception clause with a much lighter approval procedure in the light of what the initiator itself intends with his legislative proposal, namely to strengthen the legitimacy of European decision-making within representative democracy. Is this consistent? In the written report, the PvdA Group was cautious in suggesting that this addition might lead to a certain bias on the part of the initiator, something that he certainly denies. Of course, we'll take his word for it. Can I put it a little lighter today, then? We know from our visit to the National People's Congress in China that we have only a few days left in the Year of Monkey before the new Chinese year arrives next Friday. Do we see here, through this last added closing section of paragraph 4 at the end of the old year, that the monkey is not leniently coming out of the sleeve, in the form of MP Van der Staaij? After all, all EU treaties or amendments to them must be adopted by a two-thirds majority, but in the case of renationalisation, he says, a simple majority is sufficient. I'd like a response from the government, too. My group still has a number of legal systematic objections. The initiator aims to add no less than three new members to Rule 91, which would double the number of members. That would be a novelty in the chapter on Legislation and Governance of the Constitution. No article in Chapter 5 of the Constitution has so many members. With melancholy reminiscent of colleague Willem Witteveen and the title of his posthumously published book, De Wet als Kunstwerk, we propose that such a full article is not very attractive for what is merely called a "other provision" in the Constitution. It is, as it were, pulling Article 91, if not this whole chapter of the Constitution, out of its cadence. In our group's analysis, two of the three proposed new Members are superfluous in order to achieve the objective set by Van der Staaij. The proposed paragraph 5 on also a two-thirds majority for a Union decision on simplified amendment of treaties is materially superfluous, as such a procedure will never allow fundamental changes to be made with a far-reaching impact on the Dutch legal order. In the unlikely event that this would be a threat, this latent concern should have been concisely expressed in paragraph 4. In addition to paragraph 5, the proposed paragraph 6 may be deleted. This also explains the fourth paragraph applicable to any Treaty concerning the accession of new Member States to the European Union. This is superfluous and would provide for a double-weighed approval procedure. After all, the accession of a new Member State will at all times lead to an amendment of the treaties, the parent treaties, on which the European Union is founded, even if it was simply to add the name of the new Member State concerned to the Convention. I ask the initiator and the government whether my group sees that correctly. In writing, we have already had an interesting debate with the initiator about our impression that the legislative proposal is both too broad and too limited in the light of the objective pursued. After all, not all EU treaties or amendments to them are so fundamental that an increased approval procedure is appropriate. However, according to the text of the bill, it will apply to each Convention and any amendment thereto. In addition, moving in the spirit of the initiator, it should be noted that the scope of the proposal is far too limited. Treaties concluded or amended, for example, within the framework of the United Nations, the Council of Europe or the World Trade Organisation, can also have a far-reaching impact on the democratic system and on the Dutch and European legal order. Let me give you some examples. Article 43 of the UN Charter still provides for the possibility of agreements between the UN and their Member States to establish a UN army, whereby the command and control of national troops is transferred to the UN. Such a far-reaching treaty is the result of the tough approval procedure of the Van der Staaij legislative proposal. This also applies to a possible new treaty within the framework of the Council of Europe on, for example, citizens' environmental rights or on rights of migrants. Also important new treaties within the framework of the World Trade Organisation, however far-reaching for the Netherlands, are not in the sight of the legislative proposal. I ask the initiator but also the government to respond to my group's analysis that the legislative proposal has an excessively broad and too limited scope from the point of view of its intended purpose. In summary. My group still has a number of fundamental, practical and legal-systematic objections to the legislative proposal. We also believe that the text at this stage is not sufficiently precise to be incorporated into the Constitution. Of course, we look forward with interest to the reaction of the initiator and the reaction of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. Everything comes in time for him who can wait. I admire the perseverance of Mr Van der Staaij. As early as 2006, this initiative proposal was brought before the Lower House, with co-subsidiator Mat Herben, and after eleven years he can defend it today in the Upper Chamber. A great achievement, for a member and for employees of a small group. In the SGP's view, there is a serious legislative proposal which seeks to take account of the EU's own special nature, the way in which the EU intervenes in its own national legal order, and which also aims to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the EU within our representative democracy. These are important objectives. The legislative proposal, at least as we read it, is in fact one plea for fair constitutional rules. We are right to call for a two-thirds majority to amend our Constitution. It would then be logical for state law to impose this requirement on European treaties with a major impact on our constitutional order. The fact that this has not been done so far has to do, inter alia, with the very narrow interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution, which states that treaties derogating from the Constitution must be adopted by two-thirds majority. The Constitutional Commission rightly points out on page 117 that this narrow interpretation leads to "the requirement of a two-thirds majority does not apply to treaties which are not contrary to concrete provisions of the Constitution, but which nevertheless have a significant impact on the national legal order'. In that sense, I believe that today we are not primarily discussing a political issue but dealing with a matter of state law. Amendment of the Constitution is desirable in order to ensure that EU treaties with a substantial impact on our country and on our constitutional system obtain enhanced democratic legitimacy. In the words of a majority of the Constitutional Affairs Committee, on page 118: "It is desirable to include in Art. 91 and 92 of the Constitution that a treaty which has important implications for the national legal order should only be approved by a reinforced majority, even if it does not depart from the Constitution." Does the Minister also recognise this point of view of the opinion of the majority of the State Committee? Of course, I am also referring here to the position of the First Chamber. In 2001, in this Chamber, the Jurgens c.s. It was accepted, expressing its fundamental imbalance, that, without any additional guarantee, Parliament could decide by a simple majority on a far-reaching transfer of powers, a transfer which would in principle undermine national sovereignty irreversibly. The adjustment and correction of this looming error is of great importance to my group. That half plus one can simply transfer important national powers to the EU is really no longer of this time. Nice by-catch of this proposal is that it makes it more compatible with a large number of other European Member States which also have heavier procedures for the adoption of European treaties. For the SGP, the Netherlands really does not always have to be at the forefront at European level, but we do not need to continue to lose weight in the rear. Moreover, the SGP is counting on this heavier approval procedure to encourage our government to make the best of the Netherlands in the negotiations on a new European treaty, and that our government will be forced to have good consultation with both chambers from the very beginning. After these somewhat drier, general remarks on the bill, now to compensate a rule of poetry as a follow-up to my speech. "The tree that moves some to tears is in the eyes of others only a green road," said William Blake, the well-known London poet from the eighteenth century. Is this not also a sign of current thinking about Europe? A mind in extremes. In extremes. For one, Europe is still the ultimate answer to any major problem. There has even been a time when parties that did not participate in the idea of further Europeanisation were worn out for old-fashioned and blind before the times. I mention only the 1980 motion by Mr Brinkhorst, Mr van den Broek and Mr Nijpels, which called on the government to explain our Constitution automatically in case of doubt in line with the European integration process. This was the mainstream idea of Europe, which alienated many citizens from the European project. In the meantime, however, a counter-movement has started, which is almost as radical in its mirrored effect. Europe cannot, by definition, do anything good. Brussels is a symbol of elite rulers who do not care about the interests of citizens. The break-up of the EU is welcomed and the Netherlands should withdraw as a member. The fact that the EU has contributed to an exceptionally long period of peace and that the European countries need each other very much to face international challenges, including Russia, terrorism, the flow of refugees, economic competition with Asian giants, etc. Revenge and resistance towards the EU seem to prevail in a way that worries. Revenge leads to wreckage, even on the European beach. In the light of the previous sketch, I ask Mr Van der Staaij where he puts his bill on this axis of extremes. Can he give us an explanation and show us how his bill contributes to a mature, healthy, sensible and pragmatic approach to the EU? Speaking of the EU, a link to the Second World War and the long period of peace to which the EU has contributed is not uncommon. I would like to make another link, which Mr Van der Staaij should address as an ex-tank commander. After the Allied invasion of Normandy, in 1944, and during the recapture of France, the Allies suffered a great deal from heavy German tanks. A new tank was being worked on, which could compete against those German tanks: the Centurion. In April 1945 the first copies were ready, which were shipped to the battlefield as soon as possible. Before they arrived at the front, however, the war was over. Mr Van der Staaij has tabled an appropriate legislative proposal, which reflects the EU's great impact on our legal order. But isn't it too late? Is Europe not to a large extent finished and has not so much sovereignty already been transferred that this bill is actually mustard after the meal? Did Mr Van der Staaij, as former tank commander, not enter the Upper House? Maybe a great weapon, but the battle has already been fought. Mr. Chairman. I would like to address the Minister. If I drop the word 'Ukraine referendum' in this Chamber, it will make a lot of Members uncomfortable. A bill that generously passed the Second and First Chambers was provided with a counter in a referendum. For example, I noticed how critical the recent PvdA Congress has expressed itself about referenda when there is an international or European dimension. The Ukraine Treaty would not be covered by this bill, but I would like to ask the Minister whether this proposal will help to reduce the incidence of such annoying situations. To what extent will this bill lead to a reduction in the need for referenda on European treaties, precisely because this bill leads to a strong legitimacy of a broad group of political parties supporting the adoption of an EU treaty? Doesn't the Minister consider this to be a positive effect of this bill? I also ask the initiator to respond to this. Finally. I look forward to the answers of Mr Van der Staaij and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u15	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the PVV Group, of course, congratulations to the authors of this initiative proposal. Mr Herben is no doubt in his mind. The hard work and perseverance of the proposers deserve all praise. With their own initiative proposal, they were far ahead of their time, not only by indicating the inconvenience that a far-reaching transfer of powers can take place to the EU with the approval of an ordinary majority in parliament, but above all by pointing out that this is not entirely consistent with the nature of the EU as a supranational organisation and the way European law operates in national law. Constitutional changes also require a two-thirds majority. The author is now more than ten years away, but it will undoubtedly strengthen him that the subject now seems more topical than ever. If the referendum on the EU Association Treaty with Ukraine has shown anything, it is that the Dutch people are increasingly tired of the EU and its far-reaching interference. There is no longer any desire for enlargement, nor for the transfer of powers to Brussels bureaucrats. I suspect that there is a great deal of support for this initiative proposal among citizens. I hope that this will also be the case in this Chamber today. A widely heard argument in the parliamentary debate on this bill so far is that in practice European treaties are adopted by a two-thirds majority, so this is not necessary as a rule. It is mainly the Europhiles who take this view. One might wonder what is opposed to including this already existing practice in the Constitution. The transfer of national sovereignty is, after all, an extremely difficult decision. Surely it makes perfect sense that such a decision deserves a two-thirds majority vote? More importantly, here's the thing. For decades, European regulation has been considered sacred. With the greatest ease, sovereignty was transferred to Brussels, under the guise of supposed efficiency and idealism. It turned out to be an illusion, a mirage. Too good to be true. A growing proportion of the population also recognizes that the EU has had its longest time. In recent years, the euro crisis, the asylum system and the reaction to the Brexit have shown painfully that the European Union is, above all, making its own bureaucratic survival a priority. The fact that Member States have to bleed to death does not mean anything to the Brussels elite. And if there are European leaders who put their own country too long ahead of the megalomaniac EU project, they will only be waiting for opposition in Brussels. So much for European solidarity. It is clear that, in the opinion of the PVV Netherlands, far too much sovereignty has already been given away to Brussels. Sufferingly, more parties are now beginning to see that the European project has not worked out as it was hoped and that the Brussels overlords have not always had a message about what is best for the individual Member States. Even the most europhile parties proclaim their euro gospel with just a little less conviction. That's what gives hope. Moving insight sometimes takes some time. But now that it is getting there, it is no longer obvious that a possible next European treaty will simply have a two-thirds majority in Parliament. That is why my group is in favour of this initiative proposal, so that in future there is an additional barrier against giving away even more national powers. We will therefore vote in favour of this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. I also have the honour to speak on behalf of the OSF Group. Let me of course begin by congratulating the initiator, my former colleague in the Lower House Kees van der Staaij, on his perseverance and stamina. He originally presented his own initiative proposal to amend the Constitution together with Mat Herben of the LPF. That indicates how long it's been. More than ten years later, the proposal is at first reading. Congratulations that it has come to this, which does not mean that it will go any further. Mr Van der Staaij's proposal supplements Article 91 of the Constitution with three members, all of whom relate to the introduction of a two-thirds approval requirement for votes cast in both chambers of the European Union Treaties. This should include treaties amending treaties on which the European Union is founded, decisions of the Union which result in a simple amendment of those treaties and, finally, treaties on the accession of new members. In the documents and in the plenary debate on the other side, it has already become clear that one of the key points of the discussion on this proposal is whether the current provision of Article 91, third paragraph of the Constitution, which requires a two-thirds majority in both Chambers, if a treaty contains provisions derogating from the Constitution or requiring derogations, does not already provide sufficient guarantees. Isn't that Constitutional provision enough lock on the door? Is there any need to add a second conclusion to that? I'll allow myself a personal aside. It is exactly a year ago today that my teacher of state law, the Nijmegen professor of Tijn Kortmann, died. I would remind him of this in fond memory, because he has repeatedly spoken about the passage of the international legal order into the Dutch constitution. More than 32 years ago, I was able to publish together with him in the Dutch Juristenblad on the procedure for the approval of treaties under Article 91, third paragraph. We then made the necessary comments on the procedure, which includes a potential conflict between the Second and First Chambers. After all, what if both chambers have a different opinion on whether a treaty deviates from the Constitution? Is a simple majority sufficient in one Chamber and only a qualified majority in the other? And was it not wise to settle a form of conflict resolution? 25 years later, Kortmann was also a member of the State Constitutional Commission, also known in the walk as the Staatscommissie-Thomassen, which, at the request of the House of Representatives, focused on the functioning of Article 91, third paragraph, in the context of the examination of this same initiative proposal, Van der Staaij, which was still dealt with in the Chamber in 2009. The majority of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy felt that the criticism of the procedure under Article 91, paragraph 3, was not acceptable, but that there were still more objections and that the text should therefore be retained. All in all, that was a wise judgment. In my view, the whole of the State Committee was right to believe that the application of Article 91, third paragraph, had been interpreted too restrictively in the past. In other words, the government and both chambers too quickly adopted a narrow interpretation that only reflects the letter of the constitutional provisions. In other words, not only treaties that depart from concrete provisions of the Constitution require a two-thirds majority in both chambers, but also treaties that deviate from the spirit of those provisions, from the principles underlying them. My group agrees with that. The opinion calls for a different attitude, less formalistic perhaps and more extensive interpretation from the government and the two Chambers. That is difficult and the government points out that, but it is not impossible. It helps in this respect that the Government has for a number of years, in the explanatory memorandum to each legislative proposal for approval, explicitly addressed the applicability of Article 91, third paragraph. The Advisory Section of the Council of State may, in the unlikely event that its opinion on proposals for adoption has not taken account of this applicability, be asked for further information. A majority of the Thomasses State Commission felt only a few years ago that this was not enough and that, in line with the present initiative proposal, a guarantee should also be included in the Constitution that important treaties for our country and for the constitutional system can count on a broad parliamentary democratic legitimacy, even if they do not deviate from the Constitution. This majority was then again divided into advocates of a formal criterion, as the Van der Staaij proposal also aims to do, and members who saw greater benefit in a material criterion, for example, something like "real constitutional consequences" or "significant consequences for the rights and duties of citizens." Kortmann was not a member of that majority and, with the minority of the State Committee, provided that formal or material criteria would have major problems. I think he was right on his side, and this is evident from the discussion of the current initiative proposal. Let me first ask the initiator why he is restricting his proposal to treaties concerning the European Union. His position has been rather that these EU treaties are fundamentally different from other international organisations creating treaties such as the NATO or United Nations conventions, because they have an effect on our national legal order. I wonder if that is the case in all cases. All I have to do is point out Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, the known 'an attack on one is an attack on all'. But, apart from that, it raises the question of exactly what the initiator is about. In the debate in the House of Representatives, he mentioned a criterion that was not included in the proposed provisions, namely "a major impact on our constitutional order." Does that really apply to all the amendments to the EU treaties that are still in the pipeline? There may still be doubts about this, for example when it comes to changes in the division of powers between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament. But is that criterion applied by Mr Van der Staaij, which is now part of the legal history, also applicable to accession treaties which are the subject of his proposed Article 91, paragraph 6? Has accession to the Union of Croatia, for example, had a major impact on our constitutional order in 2013? I do not see the constitutional aspect of this article, apart from Mr Schrijver's comments on the legal systematic superfluousness. A more detailed explanation from the initiator would be appropriate here. The reasons for the initiative proposal do not convince my group at this stage. Then I don't just mean what I just said. The formal criterion of all treaties amending EU treaties is too broad, as in the future it may also be necessary to limit and lead to qualified majorities, because what has a major impact on the constitutional legal order is not necessarily reserved for EU treaties. What does the initiator think, for example, of human rights conventions of the Council of Europe or the United Nations? My group has the impression that Mr Van der Staaij has something else in mind, namely the current discontent with the European Union, the democratic deficit within that Union and the lack of transparency and accountability about the commitment of his own government. If that is the case, then he is right, but his proposal is not a solution. Then we will have to invest more in the transparency of Europe itself, in a mature European democracy and in an early good mandate of our own Dutch government in the European decision-making process. If the latter happens properly, there is also less reason to put an extra lock on the door under the Constitution. Could the initiator comment on this? I was also confused by other statements made by the initiator. On several occasions, Mr Van der Staaij has inspired his proposal by a kind of constitutional morality. He was wondering on the other side if it's fair as we've arranged it now. I quote him: "Isn't that a fair constitutional rule of the game?" I believe that Mr Van Dijk has just pointed this out on behalf of the SGP Group. I understand from the words used by Mr Van der Staaij in the Lower House that he believes that heavy, far-reaching regulation needs a heavier democratic legitimacy, as we have, for example, arranged for amendments to our Constitution. But why is he restricting his proposal to amendments to European treaties? Is it fair, then, that far-reaching multilateral trade agreements or national organic legislation with far-reaching implications for the relations between governments and for citizens' rights and duties simply demand a simple majority and are legitimised by a simple majority? The D66 Group has clear reservations about this initiative proposal, which I can also express on behalf of the OSF. We are hesitant about the justification and consider it to be inconsistent and coherent. We do appreciate the attempt to correct the obvious omission in the Constitution, but we do not think that this is the most appropriate way to do so. We do like to think about better positioning of European cooperation in the Constitution. Having said that, my preliminary conclusion in this first period is that there is no compelling need for this proposal for a constitutional reform, especially in the context of Article 91, paragraph 3, which already requires that treaties that depart from the Constitution should be adopted by qualified majority. If the government and both chambers take this constitutional requirement seriously, an additional regulation for EU treaties would seem superfluous, regardless of the other objections already mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u17	Mr De Graaf therefore sees something in a broader interpretation of Rule 91 (3). I think that's a win in itself. I have read the Acts of the past few years, and I read in them that it has been said several times in this Chamber and on the other side that there is indeed a need for a broader interpretation. But it never happened. What signs does Mr De Graaf have that this broader interpretation as he stands will be there in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u18	Firstly, this calls for some courage and concentration of parliamentarians on both sides of the Binnenhof and also on the government. I have already said that it is a good thing that, I believe, since 2009 the government has also explicitly referred to the applicability of Article 91 (3) in the explanatory statement. Secondly, not all European treaties were necessarily regarded as deviating from the Constitution. One is and the other is not, apart from the fact that in all cases a two-thirds majority was actually achieved in practice. So don't turn it around, Mr Van Dijk. It is not that Rule 91 (3) has been ignored too easily each time. I think that we should at least agree for the future that we are not just staring blindly at the specific constitutional provision that is being examined, but that we are also looking at the underlying principles. That requires awake MPs, both in the Second and in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u19	Then you'll really be dependent on the political will to do this. So that continues to give uncertainty and interpretation discussions. You are also concerned that the article in question contains the word 'deviation'. It's hard to interpret it differently. Isn't this going to be a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u20	I don't think it's so terribly problematic. What I do find problematic is to add a formal criterion, an additional one based on a formal criterion, namely treaties which constitute an amendment of treaties that the European Union is founded on. I believe that, as I have already said, this is too broad a criterion and also too strict a criterion, too limited a criterion, as regards the underlying principle that Mr Van der Staaij wishes to express, namely regulation which has a major impact on our constitutional order. I know Mr Van der Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij-Staaij. For the past ten years, there has been very little ice. Nevertheless, I look forward with great interest to his response to our questions and comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u21	Mr. Chairman. It has been said several times: the bill we are discussing today dates back to 2006, more than ten years ago. The proposers certainly didn't go ice over one night. It was originally submitted by MP Herben of the LPF and in 2007 Mr Van der Staaij continued the defense and treatment alone. The proposal was adopted after a third deadline in 2015. Mr Van der Staaij deserves our compliments for his perseverance and longevity. In 2006, the Treaty of Lisbon had not yet been signed, let alone entered into force. The new rules of the Lisbon Treaty, which brought greater involvement of the States-General at previous stages of legislative and treaty formulation, had not yet been experienced. The world has changed considerably since 2006 and therefore the context in which the current legislative proposal has to be put in place. That context will continue to change. The question is whether our current rules and, in particular, Article 91 of the Constitution are sufficiently future-proof and whether the proposed addition to Article 91 of the Constitution is in itself sufficiently future-proof. That brings my group to the question of what problem this bill should answer and whether this answer is the best way to address the supposed problem. Background to the proposed amendments is that, according to the initiators, "the EU's influence on the Netherlands is such that the EU can no longer be regarded as a normal international organisation and the EU has developed from an international partnership to a political community that has become highly intertwined with the national political community." The members of the VVD Group agree with this observation. It is not for nothing that the public debate on the EU is going on and its role and significance are being called into question. Not only in the Netherlands, but almost everywhere in Europe. It refers to the Ukraine referendum, the Brexit, populist movements in, among others, France, Germany and Italy and the breaking down or even absence of the rule of law in Poland and other former Eastern European countries is superfluous and also an open door. We are not discussing the role, governance or significance of the EU today. That's not what the bill's about. The legislative proposal is about introducing a higher threshold for the adoption and amendment of treaties on which the EU is founded and for the accession of new Member States. The legislative proposal does refer to the transfer of powers from Member States to the EU, but not to the transfer of powers from the EU to the Member States, i.e. the reverse movement. In that case, a simple majority will suffice. Mr Schrijver pointed that out as well. As the cabinet already wrote in its letter of 23 November 2016, it seems that the initiators are not about the principle of constitutional change, but about the direction of relocation. With the cabinet, the VVD Group believes that the bill is actually about whether obstacles should be created to transfer powers to the EU. In doing so, the Cabinet points out that the situation that a treaty merely provides for the transfer of EU powers to its Member States will not arise quickly. In practice, treaties always lay down a package of transfers in both directions. How does the initiator look at this and how does he weigh it? The threshold of two-thirds majority is a high one. That threshold is now applied only if a treaty contains provisions derogating from the Constitution. We've already talked about that. Other treaties shall be adopted by tacit or express consent by a simple majority. The question for my group is whether and how many European treaties and amendments thereto will still be adopted by the Second and First Chambers, if a qualified majority is needed. The VVD Group believes that this might be very disappointing. How does the initiator and the government view this? Has there been any research on this? The members of the VVD Group are not only concerned about the effects of the proposed law. They also believe that this legislative proposal sends a negative signal about the institution, role and significance of the European Union for the Netherlands. It is a signal of closing windows and ignoring the importance and role of Europe as a stable power factor for prosperity and well-being, peace and security. At the same time, my group does not close its eyes to the unrest and uncertainty of large parts of the Dutch population about the increased influence of the EU on Dutch politics, on the Dutch legal order and on Dutch society. That brings me to the next point. Just a year ago, we held a debate in this Chamber on the future of our parliamentary system. A motion was tabled and adopted asking for a state committee to be set up to answer the question whether the parliamentary system is sufficiently future-proof and, if necessary, to make proposals for adjustments, taking into account various considerations, including those of Europe's increasing influence on the Dutch legal order. The context of this debate was the changing and changing society in international terms: major power shifts, massive migratory flows, increasing uncertainty and in digital terms: the computerisation of society. A number of observations and issues occurred. The Dutch citizen calls for greater involvement in policy and politics, electoral volatility, and more and more social issues are being addressed at European level. The way in which we should deal with the adoption and amendment of EU treaties is one of the issues, one of the puzzle pieces that fits perfectly with the wider issue of the great maintenance of the parliamentary system. It will therefore be possible to add this issue to the mandate of the State Committee to be set up. The problem is not an isolated one, and any measures to be taken must be seen in conjunction with other proposals that the State Committee will make. How does the initiator view this? The bill will not enter into force until after five years ex Article 4. Moreover, these provisions do not indicate the date from which these five years are to be counted. I assume that the provision is intended to regulate the entry into force of the law five years after publication in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u22	I would like to go back to Mrs Duthler's question to the initiator, namely how he looks at the possibility of an additional opinion from the new state committee to be set up. The VVD Group, like us, knows that more than six years ago a state committee devoted a whole chapter to precisely the question raised by the Van der Staaij bill. This was also submitted to the State Committee by motion at the request of the Lower House. Is it then convincing to say six years later, while this bill has not yet been finalized, that we should ask the State Commission first. Don't you get a reprise? What would the added value be? For I assume that Mrs Duthler believes that, if we ask for this opinion, consideration of this proposal will be postponed further and that it will not be possible to reach a second reading if it is adopted. That will then be suspended for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u23	First of all, I would like to answer the first question, namely what is the added value of extending the mandate of the State Commission which is soon to be set up with the legislative proposal aimed at regulating the amendment of the Constitution. When the Thomasses State Commission issued the report in 2010, we had no experience of the possibilities offered by the Lisbon Treaty. At that time we could not have gained experience of parliamentary reservations, of the yellow and orange cards and of the subsidiarity concerns. That is the case now. The context in which this issue arises has therefore changed considerably. I did not start my introduction in vain by referring to the enormous length of time that this bill is already under discussion. It is an adaptation of the Constitution. This means that this must be done very carefully. My group would think that a little longer would wait until we also have the opinions of the State Committee, in the light of the long-term treatment of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u24	We can blame the initiator a lot, but not a lack of care. He has been working on this for quite some time and he has not gone ice cream over one night. But is it not true that, despite the partly changed circumstances in relation to European Treaty changes, the fundamental questions raised in Chapter 11 of the report have been discussed in detail? These fundamental questions have not changed in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u25	The Thamassen Committee, as you have already indicated yourself, has not delivered a clear opinion. The only clear point was that Article 91 (3) could be interpreted somewhat more broadly. But this committee has not come up with a genuinely unanimous and clear opinion. The reason for the State Commission to be set up in March is that we see citizens wanting to be more involved in legislation, including European legislation, while at the same time worrying about the EU's influence on Dutch society, the Dutch legal order and the Dutch political system. These circumstances are quite different from those of six years ago, let alone those of ten years ago, when Mr Van der Staaij submitted this bill. So the whole context and the considerations for reaching the state committee to be set up are different. They are very similar to the considerations put forward by Mr Van der Staaij to come up with this bill. Frankly, the sympathetic thing about this bill is that it provides for a strengthening of representative democracy. My group rejected the referendum law. She does think we have to do something with those observations. My group is probably going too far to say that we are against this bill and we are not doing anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u26	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u27	I'm not going in there. I am not going to continue the debate on this point. However, I would like to make it clear to Parliament's history that the reason for last year's request to set up a state committee was not citizens' discontent about the EU. There really was another reason. You and I have had that debate. We know what the triggers were.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u28	I have examined the considerations for the state committee to be set up and the considerations in the motion. I have just quoted those considerations almost literally in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u29	I understand that Mrs Duthler's question to Mr Van der Staaij must be interpreted as a kind of proposal to keep the whole matter, pending further advice from the State Committee to be set up. Isn't Mrs Duthler afraid that if we do that, the case will repeat itself over and over again? We shall now put that down to the state committee, which then advises in a few years' time, after which Mr Van der Staaij comes forward with his own initiative proposal. The only thing that is certain for the future is that Mr Van der Staaij will still be in the House of Representatives in many years' time. A few years later, that ends up back here. Then the VVD Group notes: yes, that's all something from 2019; we're five years away; couldn't we set up another state committee to advise on this? If Mrs Duthler does not find it sufficiently justified, why does she not simply say that she is against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u30	Because of the dilemma I just outlined. On the one hand, we see that we need to respond to the growing desire of citizen involvement. On the other hand, we still see so many difficulties in this proposal that it is really difficult for us to make a proper assessment at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u31	I would like to make a point to Mrs Duthler, but at the same time I would also like to have Mr De Graaf's reaction to it. Can we do that in one go, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u32	That is problematic, because then we will have a kind of tripartite discussion without Mr Van der Staaij. I think that's a little weird. Please put your question to Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u33	I forgot to place an interruption when Mr De Graaf was speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u34	Unfortunately peanut butter!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u35	Why don't you have a debate with Mrs. Duthler? I am sure you will be able to address Mr De Graaf in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u36	I put it to Mr De Graaf during the week that I would like to ask him a question. Maybe he can go into it in second term. We have talked a few times about a possible change of interpretation of Article 91, third paragraph of the Constitution. I can tell from a number of political groups that it is felt that the very formal, limited interpretation is somewhat weak and that we need a broader interpretation. Does Mrs Duthler agree that this broader interpretation of both Chambers itself should come about, so that the Chambers are essentially the competent authority to interpret Rule 91, third paragraph? Would there be a change of interpretation if both chambers took the view that a more extensive interpretation is necessary? If so, would that apply to both Chambers by simple majority? They may decide on the application of the third paragraph of Article 91. If so, does that only apply in an ad hoc situation or should it be expressed structurally by both Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u37	Is this a multiplechoice question or is it a question with multiple questions in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u38	It is indeed a kind of multiplechoice question, but multiple answers can be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u39	Have you noted all the questions, Mrs. Duthler?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u40	I tried to remember them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u41	Mr Schrijver then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u42	Encouraged by Mrs Van Bijsterveld, I would like to ask Mrs Duthler if she can find further reinforcement for her argument that Article 91 (3) should be explained less cramped in the text itself. We do not necessarily have to go to a contextual or teleological interpretation. The text contains treaties derogating from the Constitution and does not limit it to treaties contrary to the Constitution. 'Deviations from' seems to me to have a broader scope than if it had been 'in conflict with'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u43	In fact, Mr De Graaf said it in his speech. He wrote an article about it in the NJB 20 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u44	30 years ago!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u45	30 years ago, at least a long time ago. In that article he indicated that it is the question of how to deal with a situation in which the Second and First Chambers disagree on whether a treaty deviates from the Constitution. Mr De Graaf did not come out with Mr Kortmann. He raised the question, but a solution was not really provided. Perhaps Mr. Schrijver has a nice PhD candidate or student who can promote on this. So I can't give the answer one-two-three. I really don't think it's up to me to give that answer either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u46	It is gradually an employment project when I hear it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u47	So I need the answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u48	Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u49	This is indeed a complicated question. If the interpretation lies with both Chambers, I am inclined to find it and believe that Mrs Van Bijsterveld and Mrs Duthler also agree that this means that both Chambers may conflict. They have to try to get out of there. It would help us to do so, moreover, is the suggestion of a long time ago that we should make a form of conflict resolution. Only, in 2010, the State Commission pointed out that this was also the case. How, for example, should you organize it? The Constitution does not provide for a Vermitlungsausschuss, a conflict resolution regime. We might think about that, but the primary question is whose responsibility it is to arrive at a good interpretation. That is primarily the government's responsibility. After that, we, both chambers, must give judgment. The opinion on whether or not it differs from the Constitution can indeed be given by simple majority. If so, we need a two-thirds majority procedure. Moreover, I agree with Mr Schrijver that the text of Article 91, third paragraph, gives some room not only to look purely at conflict with constitutional provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u50	That's the best I can say. Madam President. I had arrived at the point where, in two months' time, the State Committee will be set up and whether it is not obvious to wait until the State Committee has delivered its opinion on this proposal. The members of the VVD Group sincerely wonder whether the proposal of state law in this form is an effective means of achieving the objective pursued by the initiator, namely to take account of the special character of the EU. Text & Comments is a beautiful book, Mr Van der Staaij. There is also much in it about an explanation of paragraph 3. The Treaty of Lisbon has strengthened the role of the States-General in the European legislative process and has several instruments for influencing and guiding Treaty changes. The members of the VVD Group have difficulty in assessing this bill in isolation from other instruments which also aim to increase citizen involvement and parliamentary control in Treaty changes affecting the influence of the European legal order on the Dutch legal order. The initiator didn't go ice cream over one night. He also deserves compliments for that. But the VVD group, in turn, does not want to go on slippery ice. It still has quite a few hesitations and reservations. It would prefer to await the opinion of the State Committee first, so that it can assess this bill in conjunction with other proposals. I shall therefore table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Duthler, Mr Van Bijsterveld, Mr Schrijver, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Jorritsma-Lebbink proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the European Union has developed from an international partnership to a political community with its own legal order which has become highly intertwined with the national political community and the national law of the Member States;]] [[a public debate on the role, significance and governance of the European Union is under way;]] [[increase the involvement of citizens in policies and policies, inter alia through research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau;]] [[a State Committee shall be set up following a debate on 19 January 2016 to answer the question of whether the parliamentary system is sufficiently future-proof, taking into account the above considerations and, if necessary, to make proposals for adjustments;]] [[the proposal for an own-initiative act, No 30874(R1818), concerns the rules of the game and the functioning of the parliamentary system;]] [[expresses its view that it is appropriate to invite the State Commission to be set up to include in its examination of the future stability of the parliamentary system the instrument of introducing a qualified majority of votes cast for the adoption and amendment of EU treaties referred to in this legislative proposal and to continue the examination of this bill until the State Commission to be set up has completed its investigation and submitted a report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30874-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u51	When it comes to the vote on the legislative proposal, my group requests that we vote first on this motion and then on the legislative proposal. My group, of course, awaits the answer with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u52	Your request to vote on the motion first and then on the bill is noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. First of all, my group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, would like to congratulate the initiators on the attention, care and, indeed, the persistence with which they have prepared this legislation. Making an initiative law is not easy, let alone making a law that affects the Constitution and the constitutions of our country. We have a great deal of respect for that. However, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants to make a number of serious comments on the legislative proposal and have the necessary questions about it. The core of the legislative proposal is that EU treaties or amendments to them should now be approved by two-thirds majority in both the Lower House and the Upper House. This would reflect the fact that the EU is more than an international partnership in an intergovernmental form. The EU is also a supranational community with a constitutional character. Its institutions carry out administrative, legislative and judicial tasks, to which Member States and their nationals have to comply. In addition to their national citizenship, citizens of the Member States have European citizenship with rights and obligations. That determination of the initiators is correct. It is a description of a factual situation which has arisen in recent decades and on which our Parliament and the parliaments of other Member States have explicitly expressed their views. So we are not talking about a spot on the horizon or a proposed reality yet to be achieved. It is a reality that has long and wide been enshrined in treaties. These treaties have generally been approved in the Netherlands in both chambers with very large majorities. I would like to mention a few relevant examples from the past decades: the 1992 Maastricht Treaty with 137 voters in the House of Representatives and 57 in the House of Representatives, the 1997 Amsterdam Treaty with 126 votes in the House of Representatives and 63 in the First Chamber, the 2001 Treaty of Nice with only a few votes against in both Chambers, the 2007 Treaty of Lisbon with 112 and 59 votes in the Second and First Chambers, and relatively recently the 2012 EMU Treaty with similar numbers. Even further back in time, the support of the States-General for European treaties has always been strong. There might have been natural moments in recent decades, a little further back, in the EU's construction phase, to consider a legislative proposal such as that now before us, following Article 91 (3). But what are we asking the initiator, the current urgency and necessity, now that the EU has been established long and wide, the constitutions have been formed and powers transferred? Perhaps the initiator said that the two-thirds majority made the bill necessary right now, because it also applies to the future accession of new Member States. As far as my group is concerned, this is at odds with the main argument put forward by the authors, namely the transfer of sovereignty. It does not seem to my group, at least not to a significant extent, to be on the agenda when Member States join. After all, the constitutions do not change substantially. We would like to hear a response from the initiator and the cabinet on this point. My group would also like a specific explanation of why the initiators have opted for the non-reciprocity or asynchronousity of the bill. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is one or the other. If constitutional relations between the EU and the Member State change, you can choose to do so only with a two-thirds majority. But we see an inconsistency in this legislative proposal if the transfer of powers from one Member State to another requires a two-thirds majority from one Member State to another and the other on the EU to another. What is the reason why the initiator chooses to do so? Is he implicitly saying that EU tasks and competences should actually be subordinate to national competences and that giving them back should therefore be easier? Does this always apply, even to complex issues that can only be resolved in an international context? Such inconsistency or asynchronousity seems strange to us, but we like to hear the arguments of the initiator. Although we are critical of the instruments contained in this bill, my group is not blind to the shortcomings in the functioning of Europe. And we, too, see the concerns of many people about the opacity of European decisions and lack of democratic assurance. But my group's analysis does not give rise to parliamentary support or voting in both our Chambers and therefore does not provide the solution to the shortcomings and the dissatisfaction. In my group's view, the way in which Europe prepares and takes decisions is too opaque. Within the functioning of the EU, there is an urgent need for more democratic legitimacy, whether it is about the creation of treaties or the day-to-day policies of the EU. In the opinion of GroenLinks, to improve that, you need to turn on other buttons. More about that later. Raising the threshold for decision-making has little or no significance for making the EU work better, which should be our priority. From the broader perspective of the joint Member States, it may even call for a two-thirds majority in our Chambers to be counterproductive. After all, it is theoretically possible that a treaty approved by all parliaments in all Member States could be stopped by only 26 of the 225 members of our States-General. If such a situation arises, a small parliamentary minority in our country can de facto block further wide-ranging decision-making in 27 (or later 26) other Member States. I realise that the system works as it works, but from a European democratic perspective it is not an attractive image for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u54	I would like to ask Mr Lintmeijer whether this is not very similar to the current situation in which only 38 members of our parliament of 225 members of 27 other Member States can vote over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u55	That is certainly comparable, but it is the superb stairs of it. As far as we are concerned, therefore, this is not an attractive perspective. The follow-up to my reply is already in my text: this would make the Netherlands even easier to isolate itself in Europe. This does not serve the climate, security and also our entrepreneurs. Of course, the initiator is right that a law adopted with a two-thirds majority has wider parliamentary support than a law adopted by a simple majority, but my group's question remains whether the problem lies there. The basis for European legislation and treaties does not arise in the vote, but in the course of the vote. As far as my group is concerned, there is room for improvement. Within the European institutions too, as far as my group is concerned, much is needed to improve democratic relations and thus democratic legitimacy. I shall go first to the latter point. This is about the democratic legitimacy of the EU and its decisions. The initiator is also right to point out the important role that the EU has in the legal system. My group does not think this is wrong either, because major social problems of today, such as peace and security, climate and the environment, and the protection of citizens' rights, cannot be solved nationally. In a globalised world, we can only tackle global issues jointly with countries that share common values and institutions. This cooperation must be fostered and the measures that result must at the same time be much more democratically legitimised than today, not by raising the thresholds in the national parliaments, but by making Europe itself more democratic, by further strengthening the legislative role of the European Parliament, by making the work of the European Commission much more transparent and by giving clear frameworks to our delegations in the Council of Ministers and the European Council and by allowing them to be represented in the States-General. In this way, we increase transparency and build confidence in the EU's day-to-day work. Does the initiator agree with my group that there are far greater and more significant steps to promote European constitutions and to involve European citizens and therefore Dutch citizens more in decision-making on how to deal with problems that affect all European citizens? Back to the issue of the creation of treaties. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance shares the view expressed in the opinion of the Council of State that the focus of parliamentary intervention should be in the lead: in the way in which European treaties are drawn up. This requires debates with the government during the period when treaties need to be negotiated. The initiator also endorses this in his reply to the opinion of the Council of State. The single example of parliamentary involvement in shaping what could have been a European constitution is mentioned. My group also sees parliamentary decision-making as a final piece of parliamentary involvement and not as the beginning of acceptance. It's not that final piece that's the problem, it's the preliminaries. My group would welcome it if we could take a fundamental look at how we can take identifiable steps in this regard. Should the state committee set up by this Chamber, which has just been mentioned, play a role in this? The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants to tackle the euroscepticism and improve and ensure the functioning of the institutions. Not because Europe has to regulate everything, but because Europe is indispensable in dealing with the really big issues. If there is a lack of involvement with the parliaments and the people in the Member States, then we and the initiator are in the lead to do something about it. We would like to move towards more public and political debates on decision-making in Brussels, more transparency, more media coverage and more cooperation with the European Parliament on important decisions in the EU. Bring Europe closer, that is more important than raising thresholds. We would like to hear from the initiator and the cabinet how they look at that broader picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u56	Mr. Chairman. It has been said several times, but the bill that we are discussing today really has a long history, not here in the First Chamber, but certainly on the other side, in the House of Representatives. It arose at the time of the referendum on the European Constitution, with the Member Herben of the LPF, who remembers that name? It was surprising that a constitution for Europe could be adopted in the Netherlands by a simple majority in the Chambers at the time. Today, therefore, much appreciation for the initiative taken at that time, including for Mr Herben, but certainly also for the work of the current author, Mr Van der Staaij, who brought this bill to this House with thoroughness and tenacity. Much has been said in recent years about the European Union's influence on the Dutch legal order, and that was necessary. The foundational EU treaties have established their own supranational legal order and the Dutch constitutional order has changed. All kinds of issues are decided at European level and the Court's control has been reduced. The transfer of sovereignty from the Netherlands to the European Union can be by simple majority, even if it affects our constitutional order. That is a big difference from our constitutional amendment procedure. In my view, the author rightly speaks of a fundamental imbalance in this regard in our Constitution. It is also in great contrast to the regime in many of our neighbouring countries. The Constitutional Commission listed the countries with a weighted or constitutional amendment procedure for the adoption of EU amending treaties. I counted 16 countries in Europe where this is the case, including Germany, Denmark, Luxembourg and Sweden, in the report of the State Commission. That is why we should immediately ask our Minister for the Interior, who expressed the fear in the media that this proposal would be detrimental to the negotiating position of the Netherlands and would be very delaying. Does he see any specific difference in the outcome of negotiations between countries which have or do not have such a provision? Can he give an example of that? When has such a provision been delaying? How does this relate to the results of referendums, which could be regarded as at least as delaying? In the questions of this Chamber, I also read the concern that EU treaties would no longer pass the States-General. If we could not take courage from the situation in our neighbouring countries, I would also ask those Members who expressed that concern. In the Netherlands, the situation is that none of the amending treaties on the European Union has followed the procedure laid down in Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. That is strange because, in the case of less important treaties, which differ from the letter of the Constitution, a two-thirds majority of the votes are required. That is a paradoxical situation. The Christian Union is therefore convinced that the Constitution needs to be adapted in this respect and is pleased that the applicant is making efforts to do so. Now several variants for adaptation have been suggested over the years. The Council of State suggested in its opinion on the legislative proposal that this could be better regulated by a functional provision than by the formal provision currently proposed. I also read the opinion of the Constitutional Affairs Committee. This came with comments, both in the Van der Staaij variant and in such a functional determination, and is convinced that it is not desirable in the current situation. I must conclude, therefore, that the perfect solution does not seem to exist for the time being. In all honesty, therefore, the group of the Christian Union wanted to weigh which route produces the least raffle edges. In the proposed variant, there is a risk that even if Treaty changes do not affect the Constitution, the two-thirds majority will be required. However, it is also fair to say that given the scale of the procedure for amendment, but also the difficulty in reaching agreement between all Member States, there is very little chance that such a change in these conventions will be of a more limited nature. How does the complainant assess this aspect? Can the Minister give examples from the past ten years in which this bill would have been applied, while the constitutional order was not affected? The other way around, our question remains whether, even after the adoption of this bill, the possibility remains open that other international treaties will affect our constitutional order. The Labour Party also pointed this out in the written contribution. The author has convinced us that, given its supranational nature, the European Union is of a different nature from other international treaty partners. Does the applicant therefore consider that other international treaties affecting our constitutional order have sufficient legitimacy if they are adopted by a simple majority in this Chamber or in the Lower House? Or, in the long term, will such a threshold be conceivable for those other situations? I believe that this is the case in Denmark. What is the view of the Minister of the Interior on this? The functional approach recommended by the Council of State has not led to a clearly defined criterion in any of the studies. This leads to many questions about the scope of such a provision. Therefore, the Christian Union Group understands the choice of the petitioner not to follow the Council of State in this. The Christian Union Group supports the addition that a qualified majority is also required for the accession of new Member States. This is because there is an extension of jurisdiction and the cross-compliance of far-reaching obligations. Above all, the potential accession of a Member State may change the character of the European Union as a community. The Turkey deal has once again made it clear that, unfortunately, this is not just an imaginary issue. What was still unthinkable in drafting this bill was: the Brexit. How does this bill relate to this and to other Member States' retirement or to the retirement of the Netherlands itself? That may be unthoughtful now, but a Constitution must be able to stand up to all odds. That is why I am asking this question to the author and the Minister. The previous speakers have already raised a lot of questions and sometimes also congratulated them. I can certainly agree with some of those compliments, but also with some of the questions. That is why I now come to a conclusion. My group shares the applicant's conclusion that it is not appropriate that even in the case of major tasks, the transfer of powers which do not conflict with concrete provisions in the Constitution, such far-reaching EU amending treaties do not require a qualified majority in the Chamber. That needs to be improved. None of the solutions are perfect. I say it carefully: the proposer seems to have chosen the path of the least bumps with this proposal. I am very much looking forward to answering the questions I have just asked. I see Mr Schrijver looking like he's going to say something, so I'm just gonna take a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u57	I wanted Mrs Bikker to speak first, because I listened very fascinatedly to her speech, as I did earlier to Mr Van Dijk's party of the initiator. I am always happy that their movements are represented in our Parliament. Maybe we should take that into account when we look across the border. Mrs Bikker herself mentioned the example of Germany. Is it not true that we have a more fragmented political landscape in the Netherlands? In Germany, due to the high electoral threshold in the Constitution, there are fewer political parties. What influence does this have on Mrs Bikker's suggestion to follow Germany's example? I assume that it does not extend to a plea for a higher electoral threshold. I think we can agree on that. Once again, I would not miss these parties in our political landscape.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u58	First of all, thank you for the wonderful compliment that Mr Schrijver made to me, but also to Mr Van Dijk. I think it is good for all the parties here who occasionally swing in the polls that we do not have a threshold for voting, but that we simply enjoy our representative democracy. I think this is an absolute plus compared to our eastern neighbours, where sometimes hundreds of thousands of voters do not see themselves represented in their parliaments. Mr Schrijver asked whether this would not affect the way in which we regulate this in our constitution and allow it to pass by a simple majority. In my story, I have deliberately not only referred to Duisland. I believe that there are 16 countries, so many of which are the Constitutional Commission, which have a different, heavier procedure than a simple majority of votes. If one country sets it up that way, you can still think that this is a special category, but there are many more countries that set it up that way. I'm not aware of any adverse effects of that other facility. That is why I would like a somewhat firmer answer from the Minister of the Interior than what he has said now, namely that this affects the outcome of the negotiations or takes the speed out of them. I am not aware of this in all these countries. That does not alter the fact that if you make new changes to the Constitution, you will have to include a weighting of representative democracy. The state committee will have to be aware of this if the motion co-signed by Mr Schrijver makes it. I have read in several election programmes that this is what is being advocated. If this is the case, the CDA, for example, will do so, I can also imagine that this proposal will be supported. However, I have not yet heard that. Perhaps that's something interesting for the second term. I'll come to a conclusion. In the ten years that this proposal has been in process, optimism about the European Union has been dampened. However, the Union is still a value community and can serve the peace, security and prosperity of the Member States, while preserving the sovereignty of the countries as much as possible. Where the impression exists and it is confirmed that it ignores the feeling of society that too easily power is handed over to Brussels, it gnaws at the legitimacy of treaties and ultimately at the confidence of the European Union itself. This proposal provides for the elimination of an imbalance in the Constitution and thus provides an answer to the question of how, in future, the foundations of the EU treaties in our representative democracy can be properly legitimised. The Christian Union Group looks forward to the reply of the petitioner and the minister to the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u59	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u60	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my appreciation for Mr Van der Staaij's initiative, for the work he has done on his proposal and for the perseverance he has shown over the last ten years. He has used time usefully to further improve his proposal. And to be honest, the SP Group supports this bill. Since the Maastricht Treaty, the European Union has developed further from an international partnership in a defined number of areas to a political community, with its own supranational legal order and with institutions with extensive powers of its own, legislative, administrative and judicial nature. With the European Union, the Netherlands participates in a much deeper partnership than any other international treaty organisation, because the EU is its own legal system, with its own citizenship and its own political institutions, partly directly elected. The transfer of powers, and thus the surrender of sovereignty, is also more definitive in the EU than in other treaties, because, unlike those other treaties, there is almost no way back. Therefore, any amendment to the Treaties that shape the European Union, which transfers more powers or changes the way in which decisions are taken at European level, is to a great extent affecting Dutch sovereignty. We are arguing in this debate on the basis of that sovereignty, a sovereignty that should be a concern for all of us here. We assume, apparently unlike any other group here, that sovereignty is still with the Netherlands and that the tasks transferred from a sovereign Netherlands have been transferred to the EU, and not vice versa. That is why we do not find it strange at all that the transfer of sovereignty in that direction requires a qualified majority. The return of powers to the sovereign Netherlands does not require that qualified majority. That makes sense to us. This is based on the idea that we must guard our own sovereignty, but that we can donate it to an international body, only after difficult procedures. For this reason, we believe that it is desirable that there should be no ordinary but a qualified majority in both chambers of our Parliament for this kind of treaty changes, treaty changes of the EU. The choice of a two-thirds majority, as in the case of constitutional changes, is obvious. Moreover, the proposal for an initiative only concerns treaties on which, I quote, the European Union is founded. Thus, for example, it does not apply to the treaty which regulates the single resolution fund of the Banking Union, because it takes the form of a separate intergovernmental agreement. That is a pity, because that Treaty does transfer national powers to the level of the European Union, although strictly speaking not to the Union itself. However, we understand that you have to draw a line somewhere and believe that this has been carefully done in the initiative proposal. However, the own-initiative proposal explicitly stipulates that agreements regulating the accession of a new country to the European Union require a qualified majority. My group also supports this part of the proposal. After all, the accession of an additional country changes the composition of the political bodies that take decisions on the many powers that our country has delegated to the EU. This affects our sovereignty and our democracy. In the opinion of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, a qualified majority is not too much to ask for such a decision. In the consultation on this bill, it was stated that the requirement for a qualified majority would in future be likely to block all Treaty changes. The author of the bill wrote in the reply that the proposed two-thirds majority in this century would have made a difference only to the accession treaties of Romania and Bulgaria, namely that it would not have been possible at that time. Further demands would have been made from the Netherlands, for example that Romania and Bulgaria should make more progress in the fight against corruption in particular before accession. This is a good example, because we can all see afterwards, I think, that it would have been better if this had actually happened, if those requirements had been made better known to Romania and Bulgaria in advance. Results from the past do not guarantee the future. That is why we ask both Mr Van der Staaij and the author of the legislative proposal, as well as the Minister, what they think will be the practical consequences if the initiative proposal in due course has led to an amendment of the Constitution. The debate also contradicts the fact that the current Constitution already contains Article 91 (3). That article provides that, where appropriate, a two-thirds majority is also required for international conventions. However, that argument does not seem very strong to us, because according to the political assessment of successive Chambers and Cabinets, that article is never on the table. According to the government at the time, it was not even at issue when the European Constitution was adopted. If it isn't even there, I don't think it's ever going to come up. In that sense, it is a fairly empty article. It will never be procedural either, because application of this Article requires that a single majority in the Chamber is initially that the House of Representatives, which provides that there is no two-thirds majority for the proposal, decides that such a two-thirds majority is required. Surely you must be very politically naive to think that this article of law will ever be applied. We look forward to the reaction of the proposer of the initiative at the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u61	Mr Köhler's last words do make sense to me. Mr Köhler seems to think that the political assessment of such a treaty for all Members of Parliament determines whether they consider that there is a conflict with the Constitution. He said: you must be very naive to think that doesn't prevail. Isn't that what you said, Mr Köhler?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u62	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u63	Isn't that an extremely cynical picture of the attitude of 150 MPs and 75 MPs? Do you think we all think that's the way you seem to think?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u64	I do not think so, but I think that the majority, regardless of the way in which it is composed, thinks so. I find my evidence in the course of the European Constitution. Mr De Graaf was still in the Lower House at the time, but I am not sure. At least his party was in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u65	Yeah, for 50 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u66	Yes. This issue has been back a long time, even though it was less than 50 years ago. However, I still remember the debate quite vividly. Mr De Graaf's party did not at that time state that the adoption of the European Constitution would require some two-thirds majority. If it isn't necessary even then, isn't that proof that this is an empty article? It's not that weird. If people are very much in favour of a treaty and have a majority, but do not have a two-thirds majority, would they say: we have a majority, but we really need a two-thirds majority, so we just won't let it go on? That will rarely happen in politics, I dare say: almost never happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u67	I congratulate myself on being part of a movement in Parliament which is able to distinguish between what we consider politically desirable and what is legally permissible. That's a real distinction. Mr Köhler is undermining this if he thinks that everything should ultimately be allowed to turn to political opportunism. In my view, this is not the case and it undermines the image of Parliament if it accepts it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u68	Mr De Graaf, we will talk to you more closely when assessing the outcome of the referendum on the Ukraine Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u69	I feel the need to join Mr De Graaf's words. My group will certainly be able to distinguish between the legal purity of the application of constitutional provisions and political opportunism and political judgements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u70	The European Constitution has never reached this Chamber, but the House of Representatives has. I note that the VVD also felt that the European Constitution did not fall under Article 91 (3) of the Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their thoroughness, friendly words and critical questions; I would also like to thank a number of groups for their support. I am pleased to respond to the questions and comments raised by the Court. I think it is very special that today, eleven years after my then colleague Mr Herben and I initiated this initiative proposal, we should be able to debate this Chamber. In this Chamber it is a pleasure, because there has been a lot of debate here on the interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution: is this not interpreted too restrictively by the government and is it not too undetermined? That's what this Chamber regularly wondered. On 18 December 2001, in the Jurgens motion, cited by several spokesmen, the Chamber asked for a committee of state lawyers to consider this matter. In 2003, the Committee issued a report containing the Jurgens paradox. The paradox of Jurgens is that major transfers of powers do not in practice require a qualified majority, but that it is considered necessary for more or less collateral deviations which are subordinate to the transfer of powers. The Committee considered this difficult from a constitutional point of view and therefore recommended a constitutional amendment. That was already in 2003. In this Chamber too, when the Treaty of Amsterdam was discussed, it was once again stated in Mr Jurgens' person that it is really strange that the Constitution does not pay any attention to the European Union and the European legal order, which is so far-reaching. Prime Minister Kok promised, in May 1998, that the EU would be anchored in the Constitution, but so far it has not. I do like the fact that today I could fulfill a promise made by former Prime Minister Kok. The House of Representatives has indeed been working on the treatment for quite some time, both orally and in writing. This had to do, among other things, with the fact that during the discussion in the Lower House it was asked whether it would not be wise for a state committee to look into this, because the subject had to be seen in the broader perspective of European developments. At that time, the House of Representatives said in a majority that it seemed useful to her that there should be a review of this matter. This was done in 2010 by the Thomasen Committee, of which Professor Kortmann was indeed a member, as Mr De Graaf pointed out. That committee indicated that the practice of Rule 91 (3) was unsatisfactory. A majority of the State Committee said that constitutional change was desirable, because constitutionally it was necessary to ensure that important treaties for our country and for the constitutional system can count on a broad parliamentary democratic legitimacy, even if they do not deviate from the Constitution. I see the adoption of the Thamassen Committee as a support for this proposal. I would like to focus on a number of issues. Firstly, I would like to look at the background and purpose of the initiative proposal. Why this medicine and this form? Isn't it too tight or too spacious? Secondly, I will discuss the impact of the initiative proposal. Is it not closing Europe? Or does it actually mean little and is it mustard after the meal? Finally, I would like to address the other points, in particular the question of a new mandate to a state committee, which a number of Members have asked for and tabled motions for resolutions on. I also liked reading the 1984 article that Mr De Graaf wrote together with Mr Kortmann as a scientific assistant at the time. I noticed that there were so many questions about the application of Article 91 (3) in 1984. You sometimes get the idea that they have been studying for a long time and that they have been thinking about it for a long time, but that there is little movement and that few choices are made in the context of the question of how we proceed. In essence, today I am pleading for fair constitutional rules. Mr Van Dijk asked how to place it on the axis of extremes in the vision of Europe. Does it fit with an adult, pragmatic, sensible, healthy.I don't remember which beautiful adjectives he added........................................................................................................................................................................................... I have also tried, as far as the political vision of Europe is concerned, to obtain support for this legislative proposal, whether you think that integration has gone too far or whether it should go much further than that, to see what is a constitutionally correct way of dealing with European treaties. That's what I'm up to. I'd like to make myself strong for that. So the goal is not to put a spoke in the wheel. It's about what's fair. What is a fair constitutional rule? Mr De Graaf spoke in that context of legal morality. The aim is to remove a constitutional imbalance. This concerns the possibility for a single majority in parliament to decide on changes with a far-reaching impact on the Dutch constitutional order. As Mr Köhler of the SP pointed out, it is unsatisfactory that even the European Constitutional Treaty was not finally brought under Article 91 (3). That article was considered to apply to the far-reaching European Treaty. The PVV by Mrs Van Weerdenburg also underlined the topicality. The VVD asked me what problem you're solving with it. You solve the problem that it is very unsatisfactory that no European treaty has ever been subject to Article 91 (3). This was not done when the euro was introduced, while the introduction of a currency was a major decision. But the question of whether the mayor should chair the city council has to be decided in two readings, and that will require two-thirds majority. That's unbalanced. Several political groups, including D66 on behalf of OSF, the CDA, the SGP and the Christian Union, have pointed out that a very strict interpretation of Article 91 (3) is being used. I noticed that, despite attempts and analyses, no new step has been taken so far. That's unsatisfactory, isn't it? The House of Representatives once tabled a motion on this matter. It appears in the report of the Thamassen Committee. But also in the letter of 23 November to the First Chamber, this cabinet, through the Minister, says: we are sticking to the firm explanation that it really must be a departure from a specific provision of the Constitution. I understand the background to that. The question is: what else is our hold? I understand you're saying that legal certainty is about to be compromised, and what is the criterion you have to choose? But even after so much attention has been paid to the unsatisfactory state of affairs, no clear and convincing steps have yet been taken. In my view, the formal criterion chosen in this legislative proposal does provide legal certainty. In addition, I would like to take the initiative to reflect the very nature of the European Union. The European Union has a supranational legal order. It has institutions with extensive autonomous powers of legislative, administrative and judicial nature. This legal reality is also constitutionally recognised by this bill. Mrs Duthler asked whether this is not a negative signal about Europe. But is it not precisely a positive signal about Europe that you recognise that reality and that you are not concealing it in the Constitution, but you are making it very clear? The European constitutional order has its own place and meaning. Mr Schrijver asked how I look at the European Union. I would like to stress once again that, as far as I am concerned, we are talking about correct constitutional rules. This is independent of the vision of the European Union and the developments in it. But I would like to endorse Mr Van Dijk's comments on this. We fully recognise that cooperation within the European Union has brought a great deal of good. It is not a motion of censure against the European Union at all. Nor is it a constitutional change. However, as Mrs Van Bijsterveld pointed out, it is the emphasis of a principle already enshrined in the Constitution itself. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether the idea of subsidiarity would be strengthened or weakened. She also asked: is there a relationship with the principle of subsidiarity and, if so, does it contribute to this? The principle of subsidiarity, as laid down in Article 5 (3) of the Treaty on European Union, regulates the division of competences between shared competences in the EU Treaty itself. It looks at the decision-making process on European regulation. Parliaments can protest against the Union's action in a shared area of competence. In this sense, it does not affect the proposal we are discussing today. This is about the adoption of the basic treaties themselves. The proposal is in line with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's idea of subsidiarity. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that when the EU is given more powers, it is possible to decide whether this is really necessary. A qualified majority underlines this need. You could characterize what has been proposed as an application of the principle of subsidiarity to the adoption of basic treaties. Mr Lintmeijer van GroenLinks said: there is much more homework for Europe. That's certainly true, but that's not what this bill is about. I would like to point out that this is a modest proposal, but I believe that it is important for Europe to be better anchored in the Constitution and for a fairer rule of play in dealing with these treaties. That's what I wanted to say about the purpose and the background. I come now to the chosen means, the form. This form is in line with the constitutional system. Article 91 (3) also assumes two-thirds majority, i.e. a reinforced majority. It's lighter than a constitutional change. There are also countries within the European Union that have a heavier procedure. Those countries say that this requires the same procedure as a constitutional change. In this sense, the proposed procedure is therefore lighter than that of a constitutional amendment, also in order to maintain the necessary speed, but the proposal reflects the particular importance of this type of convention. Mrs Bikker of the Christian Union put it nicely. She said: the chosen route is the route with the least raffle edges. The PvdA asked: how is this a reinforcement of the ID? I believe that a firmer support for far-reaching decisions is in line with the system of the Constitution and underlines the need for broader and stronger support, especially in the case of far-reaching decisions. I do see this as a strengthening of the legitimacy within the system of representative democracy. An important advantage of the chosen formal criterion in paragraph 4 is the given unambiguousness. On the one hand, it has been asked whether it is not too spacious. On the other hand, it has been asked whether it is not too limited. I would like to go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u72	I would like to return to Mr Van der Staaij's remarks on the relationship between the legitimacy and the gravity of the procedure. I can follow that; it is a system that we have also introduced into the Constitution. But why are you restricting yourself to amendments to treaties that the European Union is founded on? Why is it that your reasoning does not apply to conventions within the Council of Europe, treaties within the framework of the United Nations or to other major laws in the organic sense, for which a two-thirds majority could also apply for additional democratic legitimacy? Why do you confine yourself to the European Union? Does this not have anything else to do with the transfer of sovereignty or the general discontent over European decision-making that has increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u73	There may also be a transfer of sovereignty under other treaties. I have also thought about whether you cannot opt for the wording of the transfer of sovereignty, as the documents show. However, there are a lot of hooks and eyes to that. Every criterion you choose can also be criticised. In the end, I have focused the proposal on treaties on which the European Union is founded, because I believe they are incomparable when it comes to the impact on our national legal order. I am thinking of the fact that the European Union does not need Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution to create legal effects for individuals. That is the established line of case law of the Court of Justice. It really is about our own political institutions and about our own citizenship. You really are a citizen of the European Union. Other international organisations do not have their own administrative, judicial and legislative bodies. They do not have ordinary legislative procedures that allow you to impose binding rules on states. They do not have their own elected political institutions. I believe that the impact of the European Union is incomparable with the other examples mentioned by Mr De Graaf. I would add that the European Union has regularly introduced new treaty changes. The law of the treaty is in par ticular motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u74	I am concerned with the concept of 'fair' that I heard Mr Van der Staaij say earlier here and also on the other side, in conjunction with the heaviness of the procedure. May I give an example of the human rights treaties? I am talking about civil rights or political rights within the framework of the United Nations or the Council of Europe. These are very far-reaching treaties in the Dutch legal order. The Dutch courts review the international conventions when it comes to citizens' rights and infringements of those rights. Nevertheless, you do not think it is necessary to approve a two-thirds majority, when I would say that this is at least as profound as the question of whether or not Croatia joins the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u75	I understand that statement and yet I maintain that there is no precedent for the European Union, precisely in view of the combination of legislative, executive and judicial powers. I would also like to mention the direct effect on our legal order, regardless of the system of the Constitution itself. Moreover, I do not delete the current Article 91 (3). This provision is an application of the other conventions, which may also be subject to the requirement of a two-thirds majority. Therefore, these provisions do not replace the current Article 91 (3) but come up against it, with a special feature for a category of treaties for a legal community such as the European Union, which I do not think is equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u76	I would like to admit to Mr Van der Staaij that, as far as supranationality is concerned, the European Union goes further than almost all other international organisations. This does not mean that there are no other supranational organisations in which the same problem actually arises. Mr De Graaf has already mentioned this. We also have supranational powers of the UN Security Council, on the basis of the UN Charter, to which the Netherlands is absolutely bound. This was also laid down in an amendment to the Constitution in 1983. I call the Cals/Donner Committee. In addition to Treaty provisions, decisions of international organisations may also be binding on any person. Think of the penalty lists. We received the Rome Statute for the International Criminal Court not so long ago, which in fact gives a transfer of national criminal prosecution and trial powers to a supranational organisation. Mrs Duthler rightly referred to Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. I hope that in his speech Mr van der Staaij still deserves to go into the issue of whether it is not what is ad hoc to focus solely on EU treaties and decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u77	I understand your statement. I would, however, like to defend the fact that the Treaties of the European Union constitute a sui generis category, for which a special provision in our Constitution is necessary and desirable. The point raised by Mr Schrijver and others underlines the importance of giving the existing Article 91, third paragraph a not too restrictive interpretation, but a broader explanation than the strictly literal interpretation used so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u78	Mr Van der Staaij pointed out that no convention was subject to Article 91 (3). The argument that we still have Article 91 (3) is not entirely valid. What I am also stuck with is Mr Van der Staaij's plea for fair constitutional rules. If you are going to distinguish between European treaties on the one hand and non-European treaties on the other, I keep wondering how we are going to implement the concept of 'fair constitutional rule', in particular 'fair'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u79	It is not the case that Article 91 (3) has never been applied. It has been applied a few times, but so far it has not been applied to European treaties. According to that strict reading, our Constitution actually only determines that the law regulates the money system. However, it is not attributed to the allocation of a certain value to the national currency. Then it is not formally contrary to that provision. If the European Union were to decide by treaty amendment... and the Netherlands and all the other Member States would agree that we would lose all control over the admission and expulsion of foreign nationals in our country, that would not be literally contrary to the constitutional provision which states that the law governs that. It is actually not a material criterion, but only a formal one. That is what I find unsatisfactory in the current system. If 'unfair' is regarded or experienced as an inappropriate indication, I do not care what label one would like to put on it. You could say it's at least not in balance. It is strange that a slight change actually requires a heavy procedure, because it is literally a point somewhere in the Constitution, whereas a very light procedure can sometimes be considered for a serious, substantial change, because it is not contrary to the letter of the Constitution. I can't say it any better than Mr Jurgens ever said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u80	This debate also raises the question of why, after the Thomasses Committee had advised, you did not opt for a material criterion, in which these problems that are now emerging, namely the European Union, but not other major treaties, would have been avoided by choosing a criterion of intervention in the legal order or the interests of citizens. Several suggestions have been made, regardless of how I feel about them. Surely it would have been more in your line to make a certain hierarchy of decision-making, as more far-reaching decisions are taken in those treaties?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u81	I understand that reasoning. My conclusion, also on the basis of the Thomasen Committee, is that, in answer to the question of how best to put it in the Constitution, it turned out that earlier, in 2003 at Utrecht University, it was not really a good criterion. It's not a case of letting some scholars think about it for a few days and then something beautiful comes out of the top hat. At every criterion, something can finally be noticed. I think that what is now chosen is the best that is available, on the basis of all the discussions and discussions that have taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u82	Finally. I ask because you yourself say about Article 1 (3) that the objection is that this narrow interpretation is merely a formal criterion. Is there or is there not a conflict with a specific provision? However, in your own solution you also choose a formal criterion and not a material criterion. You are opting for a formal criterion which you know is too tight on the one hand and too broad on the other, because it would potentially include innocence under a qualified two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u83	That's the other side. Is it not really too broad, because it also applies to EU treaties that can be about innocence? Frankly, I am not impressed by that argument at all, because it is so completely theoretical. That's what the state committee says. It is true if you say from your study that this might be the case, but if you look at all the treaties that have been there so far and if you know what comes with them, then I do not expect the European Union to produce petty treaties. If Members of your Chamber were to think so, I would note that I have a somewhat higher regard for the treaties submitted by the European Union to the national parliaments. The State Committee also recognises that, as I have said, there is no historical example of an insignificant amendment to Union treaties. Given the complexity of Treaty changes, it is difficult to believe that any minor changes to the founding treaties will ever occur. Then we have now arrived in the Year of the Monkey, the exception clause for renationalisation. The Labour Party had a comment on this and VVD and GroenLinks also went into it. Is it not strange that, for the European Union to be given powers, you do demand that two-thirds of the population should be transferred, but that this requirement does not apply to the return of powers? I think there is certainly something to be said for this reciprocity. At first, I didn't have it in my bill. During the debate with the House of Representatives, the groups of VVD and PVV put that forward. As a result, I have weighed it again and I find the argument convincing that the impact of regaining powers is really different from the impact of surrendering powers. I don't see that as the only bias. The proposal assumes that the Netherlands holds sovereignty as a state, not the European Union. The constitutional impact of giving up sovereignty is therefore greater than in the case of re-establishing national competences. It is not about favouring national decision-making over European decision-making. It is about reflecting the different effects on the constitutional relationship between the Netherlands and the European Union. On the one hand, the special position of the European Union as its own legal order is recognised and, on the other hand, it is confirmed that the Netherlands is a sovereign state. I actually think that addition is very nice, even more balanced than the first superficial approach, but it should not go both ways. When you think about it, it's actually true. It really has a different impact from the other way around. I also thought that the SP Group expressed this very nicely in its contribution. The PvdA Group has managed to raise an objection to my bill that I have not heard before during the proceedings. I would like to congratulate you on that, because I have heard a lot of objections over time. I am referring to the aesthetic objection that it is an article member with many provisions. Is an article member with so many provisions not out of tune? I do see that more as a point of aesthetics and about tastes you can differ. For example, if you look at music where all the notes are in the same place in a staff, you get a certain monotony. It is precisely this variation in the constitutional articles that does not create cold uniformity, but three members one time and five or six people who are dynamic in the melody of the Constitution. That is why I personally welcome such a beautifully extended article.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u84	It could be that the tune is starting to get a little bored. I have also tried to demonstrate, on behalf of my group, and I hope that Mr Van der Staaij will comment on this, that there are in fact superfluous provisions in it, including, for example, paragraph 6. So yes, if you listen to music and at some point the exact same thing comes along and that takes a very long time... As I said, no article in Chapter 5 of the Constitution is so fully loaded, should this proposal be adopted even after second reading. Well, that's a big deal to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u85	Mr Schrijver certainly has a point: we should not introduce superfluous provisions into the Constitution. I should like to go into that substantive argument in more detail. Mr Schrijver also mentioned paragraph 6. Personally, I see paragraph 6 as a valuable explication. It is also about accession to the European Union. The PvdA Group asked questions about this, but also D66, partly on behalf of the OSF Group. Is it not as Mr De Graaf suggests that the accession of new Member States at all times leads to changes in the Treaties? If so, he is right and paragraph 6 is superfluous, but my point is that it depends on how these European treaties are written. They may also be ringing differently. For example, you saw that the European Constitutional Treaty sought generic provisions, which do not require a treaty change for the accession of Member States. Or, to give you another example, the Treaty of Nice, a previous treaty, also allowed for the accession of new Member States. That was actually anticipated in the Treaty itself. It may well be that it coincides, but that does not necessarily have to be the case. Another question is whether it is necessary to make accessions the subject of a strengthened majority. I believe that it has an important constitutional impact on the composition of a political community. In fact, it has the same effect as the extension of the territory of a legal community, which, as long ago as the nineteenth century, required special approval from Parliament. The accession of a new country involves far-reaching political, economic and legal obligations. That country is joining a community of law, which has so far stated in its treaties that it is striving for closer union. In my view, that legitimizes a strengthened majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u86	I would like to ask a further question about this. If paragraph 6 were not included in the proposal, while the rest is as you propose, would it not be necessary to vote by qualified majority on the issue in your terminology 'enlargement' of that territory?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u87	In that case, it will depend on the text of the Treaties. Should accession lead to an amendment of the treaties on which the European Union is founded, yes or no? That depends. That may be the case now, but it may be different in the case of a new treaty or in the case of a redrafting of a treaty on which the European Union is founded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u88	Finally, Mr Schrijver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u89	I think we should look at the legal practice of the European Economic Community, the European Community and the European Union. There is a very extensive legal practice around the enlargements. We didn't go from 6 to 9 to 12 to 18 for nothing and finally came to 28. I do not recall an example that did not lead to an amendment to the Parent Convention, because all these countries are listed first at the beginning of the Convention. So any accession of a new member to the European Union will lead to an ipso facto amendment of the Parent Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u90	Yes, that may have been the case so far, but I have shown with the examples of the European Constitutional Treaty, which in the end did not succeed, and the Treaty of Nice, that there are other possible variants. Now we are again discussing further amendments to European treaties. I'll get back to you in a minute. That amendment may re-examine this issue. It is a further explication; it may fall under paragraph 4, but it is not necessarily a given. Hence the choice to explicate it as an independent criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u91	We have a consistent legal practice of almost 60 years, the period 1958-2017? How likely does Mr Van der Staaij consider it that there will be a deviation from that? Imagine a country such as Montenegro, or Serbia, for example, being admitted to the European Union. Does Mr Van der Staaij think that, by way of derogation from the consistent legal practice of 59 years, this can happen all of a sudden without amending the Treaty of Lisbon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u92	Yeah, I'm not ruling that out, because if I...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u93	Do you believe in miracles?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u94	I certainly believe in miracles, but I don't need a miracle faith for this. If Mr Schrijver were to ask whether it is not a practice that all the Member States of the European Union should at all times agree to an amendment of the Treaty, he would be right that this has so far been an established practice. At the same time, however, there is now a resolution in the European Parliament that says: should we not amend the Treaties, so that in future all Member States will not necessarily have to agree to a treaty change? I also note some displeasure in Europe, in the vein of: it will be very difficult to amend treaties or to achieve accessions, perhaps we should change our approach. In any case, I believe that the small provision I add, the explication, is a useful addition. There is another technical question from Mrs Duthler on transitional rights. The postponement of the entry into force foreseen is due to the fact that the Rijkswet requires approval and publication treaties to be amended if this bill were to reach its final stage. This is explained in detail on page 17 of the explanatory memorandum. This would not have to last the full five years; there is always a possibility that it could have been determined earlier than after five years. That is the background to this part of a postponement of entry into force. Then there is the question of the consequences of this bill. Is Europe not locked? Doesn't it come to a standstill? Isn't Europe going to be paralyzed? Isn't it getting harder to make any new treaties? These questions have been raised with a great deal of urgency from different sides. My answer to that is "no." There is no reason to believe that Europe is closing this. It's true there's an extra lock on the door. One of the members spoke in that metaphor. You can also have an extra lock on the door at home and can be very good for your safety. Then the necessary traffic can go in and out. Such a lock does not mean that no one else gets in or out, but that there is an extra guarantee. That is how I see this proposal. I would like to point out that in practice European treaties in the Netherlands have often been approved by a two-thirds majority. This has almost always been the case so far. If, in addition to that historical argument, we look at how things have gone so far, also abroad, there is no cause for concern. Mrs Bikker already indicated that we can take courage from other countries. The majority of countries in the European Union have a reinforced constitutional amendment procedure for EU amending treaties. I refer to Bulgaria, Germany, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, Austria, Spain, the Czech Republic, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia and Sweden. If this proposal had a disastrous effect, one would expect Europe to be locked up long ago. We are, after all, the misfit within Europe rather than the fact that we would do something very special by making a modest demand for a strengthened majority. So I would say that GroenLinks' concern that we are being isolated has no ground. In order to be sure, and also in preparation for this debate, I have asked a number of embassies in the countries I spoke about what their experiences were. But...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u95	Mrs. Duthler has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u96	I hear Mr Van der Staaij list a whole list of countries where there is now a stronger majority. On page 7 of the reply I see only seven countries. Are these countries' parliamentary systems comparable to those of the Netherlands? In the Netherlands, we cannot always count on a majority of the government in parliament. I can imagine that this is the case in these Member States. We are dealing in the Netherlands with a fragmented political landscape; perhaps that is quite different in the countries mentioned as examples. Can Mr Van der Staaij say anything about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u97	Of course, Members know from the legal equation between the different countries that all systems are different. But I have found no basis to believe that it is only going well in countries where there is only a limited number of parties in power. In fact, you sometimes see in countries where there are very large blocks opposite each other that it can be more difficult to obtain a two-thirds majority. So I have not found the connection that Mrs Duthler is asking for. However, in the course of preparing this debate, I put this point out at a number of embassies, because I knew that it lives in this Chamber. Take Luxembourg, for example, a very similar country. Article 114 of the Luxembourg Constitution states that a two-thirds majority is required. According to the embassy, that hasn't been a problem so far. Slovakia's embassy, the Czech Republic's embassy and a number of other embassies have returned it in the same way. They say they're not experiencing these problems right now. However, this increased majority requirement can contribute to increasing the government's search for acceptance and consensus in terms of the content and impact of the treaties for the establishment of EU treaties. I believe that Mrs Van Bijsterveld, on behalf of the CDA, mentioned the example that the Treaty of Accession of Bulgaria and Romania, due to the CDA's vote against, did not have a two-thirds majority at the time, but a simple majority. If you are aware of the dynamics that we see in our Parliament, it may well be that the government, which was rather satisfied, could have said 'we have a simple majority in Parliament; we can continue', when it knows that it does not yet have the necessary two-thirds majority, could have demanded more strongly at the European negotiating table that better anti-corruption measures should be taken in Romania and Bulgaria in order to achieve that accession. I believe that one of the groups said in the first term that this could be the effect. That seems to me to be a very realistic effect. Contrary to the fact that it's locking things up, it could mean strengthening the national position. In addition to the historical, comparative legal argument why Europe is not closing, I would also like to mention that within the framework of the European Union there is, of course, a great deal to be done without amending the treaties on which the European Union is founded. There are, of course, a lot of trade agreements, directives, regulations and the like that have an impact on our daily lives, but this requirement does not apply. The PvdA Group is asking whether this means that it is now easy to circumvent, that everything is done in the form of directives and regulations so that at least there is no two-thirds majority requirement. I have studied the way in which a number of other countries deal with this. I estimate that would be the same in the Netherlands. It would then appear that people are keen on it, precisely on the basis of the rights of Parliament, not to allow things to go without parliamentary approval if the Treaty rules were to require such approval. Think also of the discussions that have taken place in this Parliament on certain treaties, and in Germany on the temporary stabilisation mechanism. Sometimes there are opportunities to take temporary crisis measures. Germany has a very strong tradition. But it is said that such measures must be enshrined in the Treaty itself within a number of years. That illustrates very well that this is not something that can be avoided. There is indeed pressure to stay within the frameworks. But there is some flexibility in this, because real crisis measures do not necessarily have to wait for this heavier procedure. It is noteworthy that in 2003 the report of Utrecht University on the motion for a resolution to the researchers said that the amendment of the Constitution might create fear. A provision requiring a qualified majority for substantial transfers of competence might, in the view of some, offer too many opportunities to complicate international cooperation, according to the researchers. This is what they say. We believe, however, that the opposite is the case. It will contribute to more conscious discussion and decision-making. It will promote a constitutional debate that will ultimately increase the legitimacy of European cooperation. Moreover, it will bring the Netherlands more constitutionally into line with the countries around us. So much for the researchers of Utrecht University. On the question of what you can say about this from scientific research, I can at least say that I found this opinion from the researchers in the 2003 report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u98	How does Mr Van der Staaij consider this report to be from 2003? I will not bring up the European Constitution of 2005, but we have been given the Treaty of Lisbon with the world to procedures that will strengthen the role of national parliaments: the red card, the orange card and perhaps soon a green card. We can ask questions directly to the European Commission. We're in European gremia more often. COSAC's influence has increased. They're all instruments we're just working with. It is logical that they could not be taken into account in 2010 in the Thomasses Committee's report, let alone in 2003, long before the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force. That is why I think Mrs Duthler's proposal is so sensible. Let us not go on ice overnight, in the words of some of our colleagues, but take all this into account in a more detailed opinion from the state committee to be set up. Did I convince you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u99	In any case, I find it interesting to get the warning after 11 years of handling this bill not to go ice in one night. In my opinion, this ice has become quite thick over time. The interesting thing is that these researchers do not say anything about the effect of the yellow and the red card, of this and that and of sister and such, but that it is simply the point that is being raised today: what is the foreseeable effect of that two-thirds majority requirement? They say that there is no reason to be afraid of it; I use the words of the researchers. I am aware that my fear does not provide you with sufficient assurance that it will not take place. I must also admit that we all do not know how the political views on the future of the European Union are developing. But you shouldn't ask state lawyers, you should ask Maurice the Dog or TNS NIPO. None of us know how that develops in the future. If there is a fear that there will be more parties that are critical of further European integration in the future, then my counter question is whether we should be guided by this. Should we not do something that would be a good rule of the game that would fit into the constitution system because we do not know whether these parties will be able to make unwise decisions in the future? In my opinion, you do not expect that in a well-designed constitution. I come to the opposite question. The SGP and GroenLinks have asked if it is not mustard after the meal. Does it add anything after all these treaty changes? I think the expectation is justified that anything can still come. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the European Parliament, a report is presented with a motion for a resolution on possible developments and adjustments to the current institutional system of the European Union. Following the finding that there is broad support for European solutions within Europe, this committee from the European Parliament with a comprehensive analysis of shortcomings of the EU in order to respond to the current multiple crisis, it is concluded that a constitutional convention is needed in the short term to address these problems by fundamentally changing the institutional system. This leads to a number of far-reaching proposals in the areas of economic governance, foreign policy, democracy and so on. It is interesting to note that the motion for a resolution also states that Europe is actually closing down with all those Member States that have to agree to any treaty amendment and that a four-fifths majority should actually be enough to bring about a treaty change. Not every Member State has to agree. On 14 February there will be a debate in the European Parliament on this motion for a resolution. This shows that there is a great deal of movement in Europe at the moment. At the same time, it's a nice thought experiment. If such a treaty were to provide that, for example, the Netherlands would not necessarily have to agree to such a treaty change, would it require a two-thirds majority under Article 91 (3)? Or do we follow a consistent line of interpretation: it does not conflict with any provision of the Constitution, even if the Netherlands were completely out of play and treaty changes would be achieved by majorities of countries, is that not a reason to decide on this by a strengthened majority? That's impossible, isn't it? It shows what is raging about the current interpretation and state of affairs, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u100	You may forgive me, but I find it rather strange to use a motion for a resolution that has not yet come to a decision as an argument for your proposal. There may be more beautiful, less beautiful or even insane ideas within the European Parliament, but you cannot use them as an argument for or counter to your proposal until there is a decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u101	I was just answering the question if it's mustard after dinner. In the kitchen they are at least very busy preparing new dishes. I do not know whether they are actually being served, but I would not say too quickly that the mustard is no longer necessary. There is still movement in European cuisine. A concrete example is the Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance in Economic and Monetary Union. That treaty, concluded in crisis time, would not be covered by that two-thirds majority requirement, but Member States have undertaken to take necessary steps to integrate the content of the Treaty into the legal framework of the European Union within a maximum period of five years from the date of entry into force of this Treaty. This is a clear example of a temporary measure which is still subject to treaty amendment. Other adjustments can certainly not be ruled out in advance. All the ideas in all the crises we face could lead to adjustments to the European treaties. That's certainly not imaginary. There is no reason to say that this has really been the last of all the series of treaties we have known and that nothing will come now. Just look at the accessions requested by the CDA. Is that completely out of the question? Here too, developments in Europe are not stopped. There are several states in the process of EU membership. Recognized candidates are Serbia, Montenegro, Turkey, Albania and Macedonia. Negotiations are under way with the first three. Very recently, on 9 November 2016, the European Commission recommended starting negotiations with Albania. Recognised potential candidates are Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo. Bosnia and Herzegovina has already applied for membership. Iceland's accession process has ceased at an advanced stage. I would like to admit that there is less political will to admit new countries, but at the same time you can see the necessary movements that do not justify the conclusion that this is the case and that no country can ever join. This is about this part, the question whether or not it is mustard after the meal. I now come to the final part of my speech, namely the other points and a possible commission to the State Committee. The consequences of the Brexit, which the Christian Union group also asked for, are still unclear. It is not quite clear how many treaties will be concluded. In any case, a withdrawal agreement will be concluded between the European Union and the United Kingdom. This falls within the exclusive competence of the Union. There is no need for national ratification. In addition, a treaty will be concluded that will determine the future relationship. This has a different European legal base and is expected to have to be ratified by the Member States. Such a convention will not be subject to the functioning of the proposed Article 91 (4). It actually seems to be more of an association agreement. In addition, a separate editorial amendment of the basic treaties will be required. These are technical adaptations, for example in the list of High Contracting Parties in the preamble, Article 52 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 355 and adaptation or repeal of several protocols. However, the UK's retirement does not depend on this. However, this does not mean that the Brexit cannot lead indirectly to more substantial changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u102	Mr Van der Staaij just said something about technical adjustments to the European Treaty as a result of the possible withdrawal from Britain. He calls that technical. I could qualify it as silly, although that might be a little too much to say. However, it may be so technical that you cannot imagine asking for a two-thirds majority to approve such a law. However, that would be the consequence of his proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u103	It may be a type of association agreement. I want to be clear about that. That could be a big deal. We have had the whole discussion on the Ukraine Treaty. That is not covered by this paragraph, because it is really limited to the minimum of the real institutional treaties. These are amendments to treaties on which the European Union is founded. So there can be a lot of significant regulation from Europe that does not fall under this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u104	Let me get this straight. If the United Kingdom is to leave, as will be the case with accession treaties, an adjustment, even in a technical sense, will have to be made to the European treaties that the European Union is founded on, even if only to remove the name of Great Britain. That seems to me to be a very technical adaptation of the European treaties. In your definition, therefore, in your provision of Article 91 (4), this should also be approved by qualified majority in the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u105	No, I don't think that's the case. How the Brexit will take legal form is quite a complicated story. However, it is precisely with the latest Treaty amendment that it has been realized that countries also have the right to leave. So it cannot be that you are going to link that exit with the consent of all kinds of other countries. In that case, the right to leave is de facto undermined. It is precisely for this reason that a form has been chosen that does not need to lead to confirmation of exit by other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u106	I didn't say that. I did not say that the British's core decision could be stopped by us or should be approved by us. I am talking about the technical adjustments to the European Treaty after Britain has resigned. That is an amendment to the Treaty and it also needs approval, whether silent or not. If I understand you correctly, your Rule 91 (4) would apply to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u107	This would only be the case if, for example, in addition to the more editorial and technical adjustments, which it does not apply to, it was decided that this Brexit would give rise to further institutional adjustments. Perhaps, for example, a separate status, a single associated status, should be created for countries such as the United Kingdom, so that we do not have to talk about it again and again. If that were the outcome, it would be an adaptation of the European Convention to which this legislative amendment applies. What's next? The context has changed considerably, several members of the Chamber have said. Look at the Treaty of Lisbon and the changes that it has made. Look at the referenda we know by now. Isn't that a reason to give a new assignment to a new state committee? I must honestly say that I personally do not see these white spots in that way, precisely because the amendments to the Treaty of Lisbon are separate from the limited provision that this bill is about: the strengthened majority, the demand for a two-thirds majority. Those referenda do indeed now play in many countries, including the Netherlands. Referenda, however you may think about it, I believe that this bill should never be bitten. In fact, I would say that in the different views on the referendum, there can always be an argument to support this bill. Indeed, if you are against referendums, as the VVD Group has pointed out for example, I think that you really need to think very carefully about whether you really think a simple majority is going to be able to amend European treaties at this time. If you are very committed to representative democracy, I would say that you must ensure that at least that strengthened majority is achieved. It is precisely from your vision of no referendum that you have a decent alternative provision within the system of representative democracy and within the system of the Constitution. On the other hand, if you are in favour of referenda, you can say that referenda can easily be out of line with the statements of a majority of the House. The risk of referenda crossing parliamentary decision-making is reduced if there was a reinforced majority. It seems that there is already broad support for these treaties and that there is less chance of a referendum going through them. I think that's an advantage you can see from the pro-referendum vision. There is also a possibility of an interim view. You could be for referenda sometimes, but not always. This provision could mean that it is said that in cases where such a specific provision has been made, namely for treaties on which the European Union is founded, that referendum law should not be considered applicable. In that case, you have a very clear criterion, to be anchored in the referendum law, on which no referendum would have to be held. This leads me to the conclusion that whatever your opinion on referenda, they can always provide an argument in favour of the choice made in this bill. Personally, I would be sorry if this would lead the state committee to start working on it and thereby delay the decision-making process on this bill. I'd like to think along, so I'm gonna try again. Since this is a constitutional revision, a second reading is still necessary if this bill is to be adopted. Maybe we can combine the best of both worlds by asking both the Constitutional Commission and moving forward with the discussion of this bill. I am confident that the committee will be able to carry out its work swiftly and, if we come back to the First Chamber at second reading, we will have the results of the State Committee. In this way, we can do justice to both the thoroughness that your Chamber desires and the speed that I myself would like to advocate. That's my proposal. There's been a lot of talk about ice cream. Isn't it thin ice? Isn't it slippery? If we wait, that's how the experience of the last few days has taught us, until the ice gets even thicker, you'll never get to skating. You'll miss that opportunity, too. Well, at least I tried to get some good stuff on the ice. I would like to end with a reference to Mr Witteveen, who has also been quoted by the PvdA Group. I realize that I have quoted a lot of PvdA sources. Given that Mr Schrijver has made the most critical contribution, I think it is appropriate to come up with many PvdA quotes. He quoted Mr. Witteveen. Unfortunately, he has escaped us, but has left a beautiful book: The law as a work of art. To be honest, I had to think about what he wrote in his book, on page 438, about the law as tower of Babel. It is precisely in conjunction with developments in the European Union that you sometimes notice that hubris can cause a lot of confusion in speech. In any case, this legislative proposal is a modest attempt to find a common language for the construction of the European Union. Of course, I hope that the proposal can finally be given the green light.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u108	Mr. Chairman. First of all, compliments to the initiator who was just standing here. In the first period, several Members have already mentioned that this is an exceptional situation. What has not yet been mentioned is that it is also a government-dissuaded initiative legislative proposal. That makes it even more extraordinary that it has brought it this far. Now that Mr Van der Staaij is constantly quoting members of the Labour Party, I would like to begin my contribution with a quote from the Bible, namely from 1 Samuel 7: "Until this time, the Lord has brought us." The question before us is, of course, how much further the Senate will take Mr Van der Staaij. I would like to summarise briefly the intended impact of this proposal. I listened carefully to Mr Van der Staaij, who strictly speaking cut off the intention of the proposer from the rest of the proposal. I want to stay out of that, because that's not up to me. But what we can judge is what the present proposal is about, and that is actually to limit the States-General's ability to agree by simple majority to a treaty amendment negotiated by the government. If this proposal does not reach the Constitution, it would indeed be possible, in practice, that, after 28 governments negotiate with each other and reach agreement in principle with a parliamentary reservation, this agreement would come back and be accepted by the Second and First Chambers, after which it will appear in the Official Journal. If this proposal were to be adopted, it would only be possible if two-thirds of the majority were present in both Chambers of the States-General. That is the effect of the proposal. The intention of this is still reflected in the letter of amendment submitted to the examination in the House of Representatives, which does not alter the idea that this is strictly a matter of principle. Because that letter of amendment states that, even if the constitutional relations between Europe and the Netherlands were to change, there would be no need for a qualified majority when it comes to shifting Brussels' responsibilities back to the Netherlands. Because that is excluded from the qualified majority. Mrs Duthler was right to say that this is a somewhat symbolic change, because in general it is not a question of transferring one responsibility to packages that are covered by treaties. It could very well be that ten responsibilities from Brussels go back to the Member States, with good reason, but that one responsibility disappears from the capitals to Brussels. Then that falls entirely within the scope of the constitutional amendment before it, so that it cannot be established, even if the majority of the Lower House and the Upper House are in favour of it. That is the effect of this proposal. Having listened to the first term, I cannot quite escape the impression that, as in the House of Representatives, there is a weighting that includes a substantive aspect of appreciation for European cooperation as such. For I have heard Mrs Van Weerdenburg and Mr Köhler strongly support this proposal, partly on the assumption that this would limit the power of Brussels, of Europe. So that is part of the agenda. In this context, Mrs Duthler pointed out that the initiator contributed to the idea that this was indeed part of the argumentation, and that is also legitimate. My advice to the Chamber is to discourage the proposal. I will briefly mention five arguments for this. Firstly, I think it is a negative signal about Europe. Secondly, it is not effective in my view. Thirdly, the potential limits the negotiating space for the Dutch Government. Fourthly, there are some inconsistencies which have already been mentioned in the first period. Fifthly, I would like to ask how it relates to another innovation in the whole adoption of treaties, namely the consultative referendum. Even if, from a legal point of view, it would be useful for the Netherlands to limit the possibility of complying with treaties, it is, of course, currently piling up in a number of movements within Europe: Great Britain, which has reported that it intends to leave the EU, represents a number of political movements, including those represented in this Chamber that are legitimate in thinking that the Netherlands should leave the EU, movements that are also gaining ground elsewhere in Europe. In this context, I do not think that would be a positive signal for the European Union's resilience. I think you can achieve much better the effect that everyone seeks, namely that when a treaty change takes place, there is support in the States-General for what is being established, by ensuring that the Dutch Government negotiates in Brussels with a mandate that has been discussed in both Chambers of States-General and that oral and written opinions are given by the States-General to the government that is negotiating on behalf of the Netherlands. That's what's gonna happen. I think you should step into that trajectory a lot sooner. Let us be honest: if 28 countries make too much reservations about a treaty that has been concluded in principle, at some point there will never be a treaty again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u109	I asked the Minister about this. I have heard him say this more often: if all these countries are going to raise objections afterwards, when we have had such a good lead, then it will slow down unnecessarily. At the same time, however, I have heard Mr Van der Staaij say again today, and I read that in the report of the Constitutional Commission, too, some sixteen EU countries have such a demanding procedure. Still, I can't remember many examples of things going wrong. Can the Minister back up his second point with concrete examples?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u110	In contrast to the list of countries mentioned, I would also like to show the other side: there is no need for a qualified majority in Belgium, France and Germany. These are often the countries with which we work together when it comes to establishing treaties. In reply to your question, I am not saying that you will never be able to reach a new treaty again. However, I am concerned that it accumulates in a number of other movements, which altogether reduce the possibility of reaching sensible agreements in Europe. I would have confidence in the fact that a government that has a relationship of trust with the States-General is doing the negotiations in the interests of the Netherlands and is trying to get what is possible out of it. I would then have confidence in the fact that the House of Representatives has to approve it and the fact that the House of Lords has to approve it before it can finally be ratified. What is going on here is an attempt to tie ourselves to the mast and say: even if there is a majority in both chambers, you still have to hold me, because then I do not want to move in that direction. Article 137 of the Constitution says about constitutional changes: even if there were a majority to do something, it should not, without first the States-General being dissolved by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's exactly what you're trying to stop it from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u111	Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u112	I would like to make one more point: in Germany there is a different procedure. The Minister joined Germany among the countries where everything goes smoothly. I understand what I have said in this way from the report of the Constitutional Commission of the States. If I have not understood that correctly, I would like to see that further substantiated. Out of my mind, it's Article 23. Anyway, the Minister will have to forgive me, because I've taken a whole bunch of documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u113	Just because I got it in black and white doesn't mean anything. There could be a misunderstanding in it. I didn't make it up. My information is that in Belgium, Germany and France a simple majority is sufficient to ratify treaties. I'd like to check it out. If it's any different, I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u114	I'm not trying to make things up either, so we'll figure out what the alternative fact is and then do justice to the situation. This is not just about me, but it is about many countries in Europe, and I believe that there are 16 countries in Europe which have been subject to a more stringent procedure, and that we have not yet seen any influence on the adoption of treaties. In his fascinating speech, the Minister comes up with all the sirens we can hear, for which we should be tied up and for which we should be sitting in our ears, but he does not come up with a concrete example of what went wrong in another country on that point. If it is true that we in this Chamber lack a broad sense of popularity, then we are currently seeing with the referenda that a different path is being chosen. The Minister comes with a great deal of fear that nothing is possible anymore. I would think that if there is a two-thirds majority in this Chamber and across the street, there is an additional connection, including from Parliament, to say why a treaty is worth amending. Let us be honest: so far, all referendums have gone less well, and I will not be too annoying if you look at the government's position. Shouldn't that also require a little reflection? Should the Minister not consider how to achieve representative democracy as much as possible by explaining why, for example, we are amending a treaty, so that a referendum might have a different outcome for the government? So there are two points, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u115	I am going to speak about the referendum. Mr Van der Staaij already spoke about the issue of democratic support. I think that is a bit of a turnaround, because the reasoning is that a two-thirds majority in both Chambers gives extra legitimacy to a treaty to be concluded. That's true, but that's the case now. As the majority in the Chambers is larger, there is more legitimacy for a treaty to be concluded. The proposal before us is to say that a treaty cannot be concluded if the majority in one of the Chambers is simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u116	Mrs Bikker, briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u117	If there is a more representative whole behind the Treaty, you can make it clear that it is so difficult because it is about things that affect our Constitution, and not just about the small faintness, that it is good that there is a substantial majority. I am still looking forward to the concrete example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u118	The latter is already incorrect, because if it concerns the Constitution, Article 91 (3) already applies. Mrs Bikker rightly points out the political impact that a two-thirds majority would have been achieved for the recently concluded treaties in the Second and First Chambers, so it would not have mattered. However, the amendment does not require this. You can certainly worry about the future. I do not rule out the fact that at any time one third of one of the two Chambers of the States-General consists of political parties opposed to the European Union and that we should leave it. In itself, that is a legitimate argument, but if this constitutional amendment is adopted, a third of one Chamber of the States General may block the conclusion or amendment of a treaty. I don't think that's desirable. I'd advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u119	The Minister is concerned that the adoption of this bill will reduce the chance that in future sensible agreements will be concluded at EU level. He thinks that if they are closed, at least there can be a lot of waste of time. If I understand correctly, he recommends other options in this respect, namely by clearly working with mandates or treatment reservations in both Chambers, or at least in the House of Representatives. If both Chambers do so actively, wouldn't there be much more time lost? In any case, this suggestion reminds me very much of the time of the Republic of the United Netherlands and its decision-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u120	I do not do much European negotiations, since I am Minister of the Interior. I only have to do that once. In the context of a number of proposals on the electoral system, I have been instructed by general consultation in the Lower House for what the Dutch attitude should be. In the House of Representatives this is therefore a standing practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u121	I could mention other examples myself, including the EOM. Turns out this is taking a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u122	I don't argue with that. Mr. Chairman. The following argument is not the hardest, but there are some inconsistencies in the proposal, or let me call it absurdities. This has been pointed out in the first period. If adopted, a proposal to change the number of Members of the European Parliament would require a two-thirds majority, which is not necessary for a change to the Stability Pact or to the ESM, which has far greater consequences for the Netherlands. That is a matter of substance. The combination with the new element of the consultative referendum means that an additional lock has already been put on the door. The last time there was a referendum, that did have an impact. Mrs Bikker asked how these things relate to each other. Strictly speaking, we do not know whether the acceptance of a treaty will increase if there is a two-thirds majority in both chambers on the basis of the article to be adopted. I don't know. That's complicated psychology. I don't think you can say a sensible word about that. I note, however, that there is an additional lock on the door next to this lock. At some point in time I shall return to my first point of view: it will be too difficult to conclude sensible treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u123	How can the Minister call the consultative referendum a lock on the door? Firstly, the consultative referendum is only consultative and, secondly, the only example of this in the Netherlands is that the government gave its opinion and did not take any notice of it. How can the Minister call this a second lock on the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u124	Let's not get too semantic, but then let it be a slide on the door. In any case, it is something that prevents the door from automatically falling into the lock or opening. There have been unmistakably consequences of the consultative referendum. This consequence comes on top of it and limits the scope to conclude treaties. As an open country, we really have an interest in good treaties being concluded in Europe. These five arguments, one of which weighs more heavily than the other, mean that I stick to the opinion, which has already been given to the Chamber by one of my predecessors on another occasion on the same point, and that I have also given it in the House of Representatives: with all due appreciation for what has been done, I nevertheless advise against the proposal. I am walking along with great speed the questions I have been asked. We have already talked about the neighbouring countries, where there is also a simple majority. I have promised to double check if Germany is included. I'll do that. It has been asked whether it is a constitutional change. It's a profound change in the proportions. It has been asked what it does for Europe's support. I told you, it's complicated psychology. At the risk of opening a completely different discussion, I note that it is a question of whether a referendum will give you more support. In this case, I can't predict that either. Is it true that a number of trade agreements and the Turkey deal would not be covered by this proposal? Yeah, that's right. What potential entrants to the EU are there at the moment? There will be no accession in the coming years. An interesting question is how this proposal relates to the principle of subsidiarity, an old principle from the Roman Catholic Church which implies that decisions are taken at the lowest level of government where no external effects occur. There is "as low as it can be, as high as it should be," just as the Fathers at my school used to say about translations from Latin "as literal as it can be, as freely as it should be." The principle of subsidiarity is a substantive test. I think, strictly speaking, that it is separate from the procedural proposal that is on the table here. In the end, it is a matter of weighing up whether you think that a task really belongs in Brussels or whether a country could make this up for itself. Political views often differ on this point. So I wouldn't want to make a relationship between them. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats asked whether the mood for referenda would increase or decrease if there was a qualified majority. I am afraid to predict this; I do not think there is any point in raising it. On the question of the state committee, I shall return to the debate on the motion. I think I have answered all of Mrs Van Bijsterveld's questions. I shall now turn to Mr Schrijver's questions. Can the bill lead to a lame European Union? Those are very big words, but I do think that this is a negative signal within Europe, especially at this time and at this time, where enthusiasm seems to decline on the left and on the right. I have spoken about democratic legitimacy. Can I respond to the PvdA Group's analysis that the legislative proposal has both too broad and too limited scope from the point of view of its intended purpose? I share that view. The examples mentioned by Mr Schrijver seem to me to be correct. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats asked whether I agree with the interpretation of the previous state committee that something must be done. I do agree that the State Committee said at the time that something could or should change; at least, the majority of committee members said so, but the committee was not united on what would then have to happen. This is also apparent from the fact that the majority of the committee at that time only took a few directions and did not come to a specific opinion. I have already answered the other questions raised by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I do not think Mrs Van Weerdenburg has asked me any questions. It supports the proposal. From the PVV's point of view on the European Union, I can also imagine that. I do not think that Mr De Graaf, in whose speech I recognized myself well, has asked me any specific questions. He confirms that by nodding. Again, I agree with what he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u125	He shook his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u126	Yeah, he confirmed this by moving his head in any dimension. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats asked whether the requirement for a two-thirds majority of treaties could also be accepted. The answer is the same as Mr Schrijver's question. I don't want to say that that wouldn't be possible. It is also right to point out that other countries also have qualified majorities, but I think this is a movement in a direction that is not a good one. I'll get on the motion later. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance asked a somewhat rhetorical question: what do I think is the urgency of the proposal before us? I agree with what was intensified by the rhetorical question, namely to stress that it is not urgent. I have also spoken about democratic legitimacy. How does this relate to the Brexit? On this point, I really have to fall back on a very formal position, because, strictly speaking, the United Kingdom has not yet expressed its wish to leave the European Union. That is not a formality, because the moment of implementation of Article 50 is, of course, also an important moment in substance throughout the procedure. I think I have now answered all the questions I have asked. That brings me finally to the appreciation of the motion before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u127	I understand that you only want to deal with the motion now. I have tried in the debate in this Chamber that there is rather broad displeasure about the narrow interpretation of Rule 91 (3). That is what this Chamber has seen before, and this has also been noted several times in the Chamber on the other side. That feeling has always been skilfully pushed away by the cabinet. What movement is to be expected from the cabinet in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u128	Strictly speaking, there are two different things. I do not think that this is a good reason to recommend this proposal to this Chamber. That is actually my input on this point tonight, but there could be further discussion on how to give Article 91 (3) more hands and feet. That is, of course, up to the Chambers of the States-General. In order to carry out a motion, I think the motion for a resolution by Mr Schinkelshoek, there are paragraphs in the legislative proposal which deal with this particular point, which was also mentioned in the first term. That can, of course, be a reason for the Lower House and also for the Upper House to question the government critically. So the possibility is there anyway. If we wanted to do more on this point, perhaps we could consider it again on another occasion. Once again, however, I do not think that this is a reason to recommend this proposal to this Chamber. I now come to the appreciation of the motion. The operative part of the motion is actually divided into two parts. On the one hand, the state committee to be set up is asked to include the role of Europe in its research. I've been checking it out for a while. In the previous Duthler motion, which was widely supported by this Chamber, which the government undertook that the mandate would be substantial also for the State Committee to be set up, the first consideration is that European decision-making for the parliamentary task and its shaping would have increasing significance for both chambers of the States-General. I therefore believe that this is part of the mandate for the state committee to be set up. I understand the motion in such a way that there are no attempts to change that order. If the Chamber wished, I would, of course, have to go back to the Lower House of the States-General to see if they could agree. If I understand the motion in such a way that it is covered by the consideration of the Duthler motion, which I have already promised will be the basis for the state committee to be set up, I see no objection whatsoever to leaving the judgment to the Chamber on this part of the operative part of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u129	Your explanation of the motion and the operative part seems very obvious to me. I would therefore ask you to bring this motion to the attention of the members of the State Committee so that they know that this aspect is explicitly covered by their mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u130	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u131	It is said here: if the motion is adopted. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u132	Yes. The operative part also contains, strictly speaking, a procedural proposal to postpone the decision on the proposed constitutional amendment until the State Committee has given an opinion on it. Let me put it this way: I have given arguments as to why the government is consistently opposed to this constitutional change. As far as I am concerned, that may therefore be the opinion now, but I can imagine the consideration of the VVD Group that, where this is a matter of debate in the State Committee, the decision-making should be held until the opinion of the State Committee comes around. Since Mr Van der Staaij asked for this, I would like to stress that this must be the case. Article 137 of the Constitution, of course, means that, after the adoption of a constitutional amendment, the Minister of BZK will dissolve the House of Representatives, so that the people can express their opinion on the amendment of the Constitution. I did that dissolution last week; that in itself gave me a feeling that I had not had before, because I disbanded the House of Representatives with a powerful stroke of pens. As is well known, this happens automatically if there are no constitutional changes, but if there are, there are already three for the Interior Minister to decide to do so. I did, and I informed the Cabinet. That, of course, makes it impossible to say: let us adopt it now and before the second reading we are waiting for the opinion of the State Committee. You would actually undermine the decision of the first reading, because the Constitutionalist's intention is, of course, that the first reading and the second reading are both complete assessments by the States-General, the first reading for the Chamber disbandment by a simple majority and the second reading thereafter, by a qualified majority. I would therefore like to make that comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u133	That is an important remark from the Minister. I also understand Article 137 of the Constitution. I remember a wide range of debates in this Chamber, 12 or 13 years ago, on the meaning of Rule 137 and on whether it is indeed permissible not to deal with the proposal immediately after the Second Chamber has met in the new assembly and to put it to the vote at second reading. The answer, in fact from everyone, was that it was inappropriate and more or less contrary to the intention of Rule 137, if the first reading is accepted and if we then take a few years, for example because there should be a state committee on it. If I understand correctly, the Minister is not advising on Mr Van der Staaij's suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u134	The latter is the case. Strictly speaking, the first is a slightly different matter. Rule 137 refers to the newly elected Chamber, which is considering the amendment of the Constitution at second reading. In recent years, there has been a rapid succession at the Lower House. Then the question arose as to whether all constitutional changes would expire at first reading, if the cabinet fell after four months and there were elections again. The Council of State has been asked for an opinion on this matter and has said that the newly elected House of Representatives can be read in this way: that or perhaps shortly thereafter. The intention should not be to propose an own-initiative proposal, I remember the Halsema proposal on Article 120, which says: salt it up, because there is no majority for it now, and we are waiting for a Chamber to come in which there is a majority. That is really contrary to the intention of Article 137. That was the advice of the Council of State at the time. As far as the government is concerned, that is still the case. Let me just say that I agree with Mr De Graaf that it cannot be the intention if this motion is passed and the opinion of the State Committee is awaited, which will be voted on this proposal at first reading this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u135	Thank you. I myself, as the minister's predecessor, in that capacity, asked the Council of State for that opinion, and I also remember that it played out that way. I am concerned with the observation that it is in the intention of Article 137, irrespective of the unforeseen possibility that a Second Chamber will be dissolved very quickly, that the second reading will be dealt with and put to the vote as soon as possible after the new Second Chamber meets and then put to the vote in the First Chamber. That thought does not relate to the idea of accepting it at first reading and then taking a few years to wait for a state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u136	I think we're saying the same thing. That was my appreciation of the motion. I believe that I have made all the contributions I can make at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u137	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u138	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Van der Staaij for his careful examination of all the questions. He has dealt with the various questions: the purpose, the means, the consequences and all kinds of technical variety, such as the scope of the proposal. There has been a great deal of discussion. We don't have to go into that anymore. I would like to raise two more issues. The first issue is the relationship between the proposed initiative and Article 91, third paragraph of the Constitution, which lays down the conditions for a weighted voting relationship in both Chambers, where a treaty deviates from the Constitution or requires such a derogation. Mr Van der Staaij has said that his proposal is an accentuation of the constitutional law in force, as laid down in Article 91 (3) of the Treaty. We have discussed in an earlier stage of the debate the different interpretations of Article 91, third paragraph. I have the following question to ask Mr Van der Staaij. If there were a broad interpretation of Rule 91, third paragraph, would what Mr Van der Staaij proposes in paragraphs 4 and 5, or in material terms be covered by Article 91, third paragraph, even if it is not explicit? What would be needed to broaden the interpretation in this sense? I believe that Mr Van der Staaij said that my group has committed itself to a strict view of Rule 91, third paragraph. I didn't say that. I have noted, however, that there is generally a relatively limited explanation of that article. I raised the question of how that interpretation could be changed. That must indeed be the case, in my opinion, when both Chambers put themselves behind a different interpretation. The question is, of course, when can you see that this is the case? I am thinking ad hoc, in a specific case, but when something is said about it explicitly. I am making a move, but I am curious to see how Mr Van der Staaij sees it, and I am asking the same question to the Minister. What is needed to explain Rule 91? Then there is my second point. Mr Van der Staaij recently outlined three modalities of coherence when he talked about the relationship between the referendum law and his own initiative. My question is whether those three modalities - at least those third modality - would be an argument for the State Committee to consider the matter in conjunction. I listened very carefully to what Mr Van der Staaij said, but I invite him to reflect on this question. I ask this question, unlike the first question, exclusively to Mr Van der Staaij. I would like to thank both of you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u139	Mr. Chairman. We have had a fascinating debate. My group is very grateful to Mr Van der Staaij for having given such a good start. The PvdA Group agrees with him that it would be a good idea in any way to anchor the Netherlands' membership of the European Union in our Constitution, but we still believe that his current proposal has a different scope, namely to set a high threshold for decision-making on EU treaties and to make amendments to them, however small, always by two-thirds majority. Minister Plasterk has given five very good arguments why this is probably not wise at the moment. For the sake of clarity, I refer to that. On behalf of my group, I believe that the proposal continues to bear the traces of 2006, the time when it was put on the table, and that it has not been taken into account, how can it be done, especially with the Treaty of Lisbon, since then? In the event of interruption, I was able to indicate the range of parliamentary possibilities available for actively giving mandates or opinions or asking questions to the European Commission in the portal. My question to Mr Van der Staaij is how he, as a parliamentarians, appreciates these new powers. We've worked on that a number of times. Again, the context is quite different from 2006 and it is still very dynamic. The PvdA Group has very much appreciated that Mr Van der Staaij is so often consulted by PvdA experts, including my illustrious predecessor Erik Jurgens. His 2001 motion and the Jurgens paradox, which gave rise to the Utrecht University research report, were discussed. It is quite easy to check in the Acts, which led to the Judge's motion. That was not an EU treaty or a treaty of an international organisation, but it was the so-called Lockerbie Treaty, whereby the Netherlands agreed to transfer a piece of our territory, namely Kamp Zeist, and thus our sovereignty, to allow, by way of derogation from Article 17 Constitution, persecution and trial of the Lockerbie suspects on Dutch territory, but with the application of Scottish law, to take place by a Scottish court. Mr Jurgens felt that this was within the scope of Article 91 (3), but the House of Representatives saw this differently in all its wisdom. He said at the time that there was a paradox. For very small changes to the Constitution, for example on the secret of letters, I do not want to trivialise this. We need a two-thirds majority, but for such a thing, a foreign court applying foreign law on Dutch territory. You can also think of the International Criminal Court. Isn't that weird? The investigation report called on the then government to provide a more robust explanation of Article 91 (3). The Acts show a very exciting letter from the then Minister for Administrative Renewal and Kingdom Relations, if I recall correctly, that Minister De Graaf wrote in which he wrote that it was not so necessary. Actually, I think he made some good arguments. In the book Text & Comments Constitution, we can read that these are not only treaties that clearly differ from the Constitution, but also cases where the legislator may have reasonable doubts about its compatibility with the Constitution. See the Acts of 1953. Earlier in the debate, I said that derogations from the Constitution are not, of course, the same as infringements of the Constitution. Deviating from the Constitution gives more scope than the concept of "in conflict with." In short, this is a very interesting discussion, which requires a little more thought, more study. In addition to fundamental and practical objections, my group has raised a number of legal systemic concerns. We very much welcome the debate and thank you for the proposals and exchanges of views with Mr Van der Staaij. He said that the ice is thick enough after 11 years, but I think we should warn him that the Netherlands and with it Europe, or Europe and with it the Netherlands, will sink through this thin ice, and with those two entities Mr Van der Staaij will also sink through the ice. Of course, we will immediately help the initiator as a drowning man. Is it not better, however, for the First Chamber to keep its colleague from the other side for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u140	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both the Minister and Mr Van der Staaij for the appropriate response. Whether I look at this bill as a Dutchman, as a European or as a member of the SGP Chamber, I can only say that this proposal is well thought out and balanced. As a Dutchman, I support this proposal because it puts an end to the fundamental imbalance that Parliament, by a simple majority, can decide on a far-reaching transfer of national powers, to undermine our sovereignty. As a European, I support this bill because it recognises the reality of the European legal order and also strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the EU within our democracy. As a member of the SGP Chamber, I support this bill because it leads to fair constitutional rules and also strengthens the position of our Parliament. That's all the hats I've had. During this debate, the question was raised as to whether a broader interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution would provide sufficient relief. It is good to see that many groups recognise that the current constitutional practice is not optimal. That's profit. In the light of the past, however, I doubt whether there will indeed be a consistent political will in the future to give shape to that broader interpretation. In any case, there is no doubt that the constitutional guarantee in the proposal offers that certainty. It is clear that the SGP is in favour of this bill and is downright critical of the Duthler c.s motion. to put this proposal on the back burner. Mrs Duthler's speech clearly shows the fear of the VVD that this bill is putting the progressive Europeanisation at risk, that the EU may have to make a step in the right direction. I don't think it's very chic to use a state commission as an electoral pubic patch to cover the retreat of the VVD. Maybe Prime Minister Rutte should put an ad on this too. At least the SGP will vote against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u141	Mr. Chairman. This initiative proposal should create an additional threshold for giving away even more national powers to Brussels, so that it is not too easy. During the first period, several colleagues expressed their concerns and said how bad this proposal could be for the European Union. Mr Schrijver of the PvdA spoke of his fear that European decision-making would be closed and the EU might even fall victim. I find that one's scare is the other's dream scenario. This initiative proposal, born of common sense, which undoubtedly has broad support for the Dutch people, threatens to be channeled here tonight to the mailbox of a state committee to be set up. What a weakness! The VVD shows her true face here. That face is dark blue with yellow stars: through and through europhile. Once again, the VVD leaves the civilian in the cold. The Dutch people have given the clear message several times per referendum that too much power has been transferred to Brussels, but the majority of the parties here today choose the Brussels bureaucracy. That's what people's representatives call themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u142	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with sincere compliments to Mr Van der Staaij for his defence of his proposal and for the sensible way in which he reacted, with great caution, as has already been said, but also with great thoroughness on the arguments exchanged. That does not mean that we have agreed, but the debate was of a level and that is mainly due to his response. Indeed, there has been a lot of fuss about Rule 91 (3). There is still no satisfactory solution, both with regard to the procedure laid down in Article 91 (3) of the Treaty and with regard to the question of how narrow or how broad we should interpret Article 91 (3). However, there is a constitutional imperative. A provision has been made in Article 91 (3) and we must relate to it. That is why I really want the government and the two chambers to rethink the question of how a broader interpretation can be applied. Mr Schrijver has also pointed a certain way in this. Not only should the letter of the constitutional provision be taken into consideration, but also the underlying principles. The core piece of Mr Van der Staaij's defence is constitutional morality, a correct and correct form to deal with the constitution. However, to my taste, his choice is limited, a one-sided choice for a way of dealing. His proposal does not take into account other, extremely important and far-reaching regulations which directly affect citizens and the rule of law. It confines itself to the European treaties, the treaties which the European Union is founded on. I find this unsatisfactory, as he in turn finds it unsatisfactory that, for example, a provision concerning the mayor's office of the city council requires a two-thirds majority in the event of a change, but not a radical decision. However, his proposal does not resolve that hierarchy of decision-making. Then it will have to be much wider and better. For that he really should have chosen a material, functional criterion. Anyway, there are, as we know, the necessary problems with that too. For example, does Mr Van der Staaij not think that the Schengen Convention, which is not a treaty of the European Union, but is nevertheless extremely important and affects the sovereignty of the Netherlands, should also have been subject to his own criterion and would therefore have required a two-thirds majority? I myself have stayed away from questions about the current feelings about the European Union or the current consultative referendum law, not because these are not important issues, but because this is a proposal of constitutional order. I believe that such a far-reaching proposal should be separated from today's actuality and feelings. It is an order which has to be in place in 10, 20, 30 or 40 years and which is not dependent on whether or not the consultative referendum is still there, whether or not treaties are covered or whether that law is completely repealed, as some political parties advocate. That's why I don't go into that. We do not agree with Mr Van der Staaij's suggestion that we accept the first reading and then let the state committee proceed quietly. We have already said something about this in an interruption debate with the Minister for the Interior. As far as I am concerned, it is clear that both the government and my group do not feel that way for constitutional reasons. That leads to my final conclusion on the bill. Despite the sound defense, we do not find the proposal convincing in its justification or consistent enough. We shall vote against. On Mrs Duthler's motion, my group would like to have its own debate shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u143	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would also like to thank Mr Van der Staaij and the Minister for their first-term answers and response. I would also like to express my compliments on the fervent way in which the initiator has defended his proposal. My group noticed the following. Mr Van der Staaij has made a fervent plea for fair constitutional rules. We have already exchanged views on this in the first period. In the first period, however, I did lack a bit of his appreciation of or appreciation of the role and significance of the EU. I have read something about this in the documents, but in the first period that was completely lacking. Several spokesmen have identified the concerns that exist: about the EU's democratic legitimacy, about citizens' discontent with the EU, about the need for citizens' involvement in the EU. These concerns and considerations are exactly the reason for setting up a state committee and they are very similar to the considerations for submitting this bill. It is not for nothing that my group has already tabled a motion in the first place. On the one hand, my group shares the view of the proposers that concerns and considerations should be given a place. On the other hand, in my group's view, there are still many problems with the answer that this proposal seeks to give. The question of whether any European treaties or amendments to them will be accepted by both chambers is one of those hooks and eyes, as is the negative signal you send out with this bill on the role and significance of the EU for the Netherlands and the signal of closing windows to Europe. Is a broader interpretation of Article 91 (3) of the Constitution not a more appropriate way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u144	Is the question whether there will be any treaty changes in the House after the adoption of the Van der Staaij proposal a question that Mrs Duthler would also like to put to the state committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u145	I assume that the State Committee will study the Acts very carefully when carrying out the task, both in respect of the State Committee and the Acts to be set up for this legislative proposal. This will enable her, I presume, to consider all the arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u146	A state committee can only look at the practice of the past, because of course it has no political predictive value. The practice of the past is that almost all the points covered by Mr Van der Staaij's bill have passed both chambers with a two-thirds majority, with the exception of two. That's the practice. We all know them, and they can now be weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u147	We see the legislative proposal as one of the instruments that can respond to the many concerns and considerations that have been expressed earlier. We also see the hooks and eyes of this bill. We do not want to assess this bill in isolation. We would like to see it in the broader opinion that the State Commission will issue. Finally, for the sake of completeness and as far as it is necessary, I would like to propose that we vote on the motion first. I thank the Minister for his explanation of the motion. As I said, I appreciate that he will bring this motion to the attention of the State Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u148	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij for his careful and passionate answers. They helped clarify a number of points in the debate. I would like to thank the Minister for his appreciation of the proposal and its justification and arguments. If the debate has made one thing clear, it is that the necessary interpretations still need to be made in the area of Article 91 (3). It seems that the article offers a lot of scope in relation to treaties that would change the Dutch constitutions. A broader and clearer interpretation is needed. That has emerged from this debate, and I find that valuable. It leads to the desire to take action there through the cabinet and then through the parliaments, to reap what this has brought about. In substance, I said in my first term that we see many opportunities and opportunities to make the EU work better. That is also necessary. The democratic legitimacy can be increased and the mandating of our rulers who are going to negotiate in Europe can be improved. As far as I am concerned, that remains in full force. Mr Van der Staaij says that his bill does not stand in the way of that. In a sense, that is true, but since Mr Van der Staaij limited the legislative proposal to EU treaties and did not look more broadly at the functioning of treaties that could lead to major changes in the constitution, it is almost logical that the focus should be on the EU. We appreciate this, because we want the EU itself to be more effective. On the contrary, we should not create barriers or raise thresholds to allow the EU to do its work on major global issues, such as environment and climate change, which I have already mentioned. If the bill sets thresholds for this, we think it is a counter-movement. Finally. No matter how you turn it, there is also a political context in which legislative proposals such as this bill are made, both in 2006 and now. In this political context, Euroscepticism is indeed a factor. That concerns my party, not because we want to talk about straight bananas or what needs to be chopped up, but because we want to talk about the major global issues and their adjustments. Good legislation and a good explanation of what the European Union stands for contribute to this. In that appreciation, of course, we are also looking at this bill. We remain critical of this bill. We are looking forward to the conclusion in the second term. We consider the motion positively to consider what it will bring us, including in relation to improving the interpretation of Rule 91 (3).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u149	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the author for his glowing but also strong reply. My group has greatly appreciated his reply. I would also like to thank the Minister. There are still a few questions left. First of all, I note that none of the EU's fundamental treaties has applied Article 91 (3). If the Senate decides not to adopt the proposal this evening, there will be a constitutional imbalance which my group deeply regrets. However, I have also heard a lot of noises about the tightening of Article 91 (3) tyres and the restrictive interpretation that has been given so far. The Minister does not wish to allow himself to do so. He said that we are talking about this proposal. I would like to invite him to share some of the feelings of the cabinet on this very point. Can we expect a change from the government in the interpretation of Rule 91 (3) if, for example, it is invited by the Chambers? The Minister also indicated that there should be a good mandate for the cabinet. If it is properly arranged at the front, it is better than an extra lock on the door; so I summarize his words. I can imagine. I also think it is very good that the Chamber is well involved in the preliminary process. But if there is involvement, it is also good to confirm that with each other in the final phase. I don't see why one thing would get in the way. In fact, the Minister said that this is not a positive signal to Europe; that is no longer the case. That is not an argument in the consideration of the present proposal, but it is his great concern. He can, of course, express his concerns. I can imagine it somewhere, but at the same time I still miss a concrete example from another country. I have now asked for this four times, but no example has been given. I have mentioned a number of countries. Germany is really mentioned on page 16 of the report of the Constitutional Commission; I cannot make it more beautiful. Yet I do not see anywhere that there is a braking effect. I would ask the Minister to deal with this in detail. I'm coming to the Duthler c.s. motion. under letter G. The Constitutional Affairs Committee has already studied the points raised in the motion, but it has not reached a clear solution. That is what my group has indicated. The tricky thing about weighing this proposal is that we always have bumps somewhere, but I think this is the way with the least bumps. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, an additional study is not necessarily necessary in this respect. If it could be tempted to say that it would be continued after an investigation by the State Committee, there would be another situation. I would like to put it back to my group, but I do wonder whether it is necessary to set up a state committee again. We also keep each other busy when we know what the bumps and the edges are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u150	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on some of the arguments mentioned by opponents of this bill or those who are hesitant and the reason why we are not in favour of it. It has been argued that there is now more influence of Parliament on European decision-making since the Treaty of Lisbon. That may be so, although the effectiveness of the yellow card procedure is under discussion, but that has nothing to do with the issue at hand. It is not a question of whether Parliament has much influence. After all, Parliament already has a great deal of influence in Treaty changes. It is a question of whether a qualified majority is needed in the transfer of powers to the EU. That's the only thing that's under discussion right now. All these other methods may or may not be improved, but they do not matter now. By the way, they don't take anything away from it either. Reference has been made to other treaties, and it has been said that sovereignty is also given over. That's true, but they often have a very different character. Most of the time, intergovernmental agreements are on one point. The Netherlands can then simply "quote" on that one point, but the EU cannot do so, at least without draconian consequences. There is also reference to Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, but there is nothing in that article other than that NATO countries are helping each other in a raid by a third party. But the decision of the Netherlands is a sovereign decision. That article in no way undermines the sovereignty of the Netherlands. The Netherlands can decide whether it will come to Latvia's aid if Russia invades Latvia. It is true that we have committed ourselves in that treaty to be positive about this, but that decision is in the Netherlands and not at NATO level. It is therefore absolutely not comparable to the transfer of powers to the EU, where there is an independent political level with an administrative power, a legislative power and a judicial power. The main problem for us is that the current constitutional provisions allow 99% of our sovereignty to be transferred by 51% of the votes in both chambers. That's where the big problem lies. 51% makes it possible to decide that the EU will change its character completely by allowing a very large country such as Turkey or Russia, ignoring our sovereignty. We simply find that undesirable. Two state committees have said that these procedures should be changed or strengthened. The majority of the House of Representatives also agrees with this. I also refer to the legislation in 16 of the 28 EU Member States. What's being proposed here isn't that weird. It's common use. The big engine behind the EU, Germany, also has such provisions. The Minister denies it and others write it all down. Perhaps we should set up a committee of inquiry into this. Let me give you another example. Denmark is comparable in size to the Netherlands. Denmark's parliament is also fragmented. That argument has also been mentioned. We've been asked if you'll get to a two-thirds majority. Denmark also has a lot of qualified majorities. This is about the concept of "together" with a much clearer mandate for the government. There must also be a broad supporter within that mandate, not 51%. After the elections, the proportions can be different and 51% can change to 49%. We therefore need a broad mandate. Nevertheless, Denmark is cooperating within the European Union and it is not an obstacle at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u151	Perhaps Mr Köhler is also aware that Denmark, through so-called opt-outs, is not participating in a number of European Union policies, for example in the fields of justice and migration and in parts of labour market policy. The same applies to the UK and Ireland. Is this what the SP stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u152	No, that is not what we stand for, at least not what Denmark has arranged for. That does not alter the fact that the opt-outs were first established. With regard to the other EU regulations, Denmark is simply participating. It also talks about changes and has quite a lot of influence, precisely because the Danish Government's mandate has a broader parliamentary support than 51%. So it's not that weird at all. It is in line with what is common practice and what is proposed here. I can imagine that parties which, in any case, intend to transfer as much powers as possible to the European Union have objections to this. That's okay, of course. GroenLinks has been the clearest in this. For the time being, we continue to disagree on this issue. As far as we are concerned, it is not so much a question of whether the current Article 91 (3) is contrary to the letter or the spirit of the Constitution that we are discussing about the exact text of the law, which is, of course, always to be added to it. This is not so much a derogation from the Constitution. It's about the permanent surrender of sovereignty. For this we want a qualified majority, which is similar to the constitutional amendment. Finally, I come to the Duthler c.s. motion. We believe that this bill has been discussed in the meantime. The bill has been amended over the course of ten years. This has only made it worse for the opponents and better for those who are in favour. Two state committees have already advised on this point. Why should there be another round with at best four years of extra delay? We have the impression that the VVD at least wants to take decisions over the elections. Why doesn't she just confess color? If the VVD has as many objections to this bill as it has expressed, then it can simply vote against it. She will also have a decisive vote. Align it, and we'll be done with it. Why such a sham with a new round? We hope that today's decision-making will at least lead to clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u153	Mr van der Staaij can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u154	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to take a quick look at all the spokesmen. I will try not to repeat the discussion. I think the arguments have been put forward clearly from all sides. The CDA Group has asked a question about Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. The CDA Group has not committed itself to the tighter explanation. On the contrary, a broader interpretation is being sought. What I meant to say in the first term is this. The Government letter of 23 November 2016 states on page 2 that there is a derogation from the Constitution in the case of a derogation from a specific constitutional provision. That is now a firm explanation from the government and the Council of State. The reason for this is the importance of legal certainty. I read that as the government's commitment to a more restrictive explanation. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked me: can it help to come up with a broader explanation? I believe that, especially in the case of treaties which do not concern the European Union, it can help to stop following this restrictive interpretation, but I believe that, from the point of view of legal certainty, it is desirable to go a step further and apply this criterion, especially for these important treaties on which the European Union is founded. Mrs Van Bijsterveld also asked about the referendum law and the three modalities of the link between the referenda and the appreciation of this bill. Does it now help to get the State Commission to look at this in conjunction? Honestly, that's what I'm really wondering. I also note that, over time, everything that can be said about referenda in the state-law literature has been said. It is really about political choices in this area and not so much about further constitutional considerations. What you want with that is mainly politically difficult, and not so much state law. Those were my comments to the CDA. The Labour Party asked if this bill still shows the tracks of 2006. Somehow that's true, and I'm actually proud of it. It is a question of dissatisfaction with the question of how such a far-reaching European Constitutional Treaty can obtain the power of law by a simple majority, when everyone, including the citizen, feels on their clogs that it has such a far-reaching meaning. You can't do that anymore, can you? That is why the LPF Group initially tabled this proposal. The LPF Group had invested this at Utrecht University. I was excited about it right away. Mat Herben of the LPF group had the prophetic insight that he might disappear from the stage, but that the SGP would exist a little longer. That's right, and that's why I was allowed to carry this inheritance. I believe that the 2006 dissatisfaction with the European Constitutional Treaty has still not received a good response. The PvdA Group indicated that Rule 91 (3) would initially relate to Lockerbie. That is what Mr Schrijver is right about. However, I would like to point out that on page 47 of the Utrecht University report, it is expressly stated that it would be desirable to extend the Constitution in such a way that a substantial transfer or limitation of powers of national offices, even if it does not result from literal provisions of the Constitution, requires a qualified majority. So it is true that the researchers of Utrecht University did not make a recommendation in the vein of: with a broader interpretation you are there. In fact, they have recommended that we really come up with an amendment to the Constitution. I'll let the ice metaphors rest. To be honest, I was afraid that the spokesperson would come in with the crooked skates, but fortunately they were not. I would like to thank the SGP Group for supporting the legislative proposal. Mr Van Dijk has eloquently expressed his view that the request for an opinion by the State Committee is actually more of a political than a state-law manoeuvre, so I should like to give him a solemn summary. I can imagine that appreciation. I have remembered from the PVV Group that it believes that the bill was born of common sense. I found that one of the most beautiful compliments I have received today. Thank you for that, and also for the strong support. The D66 Group also said that the restrictive interpretation of Rule 91 (3) is unsatisfactory because it is a constitutional imperative. I agree with Mr De Graaf, but I note that we have actually made very little progress in that debate. We've been telling each other that for 14 years now, but is something really going to change? As far as constitutional morality is concerned, he has indicated that this should be broader. It wasn't so much a question as his appreciation. At the same time, he indicated that the substantive and functional criteria of the Treaties of the European Union also pose the necessary problems. If we wait for the perfect solution, I fear it will not come. We simply have to go for the best solution. It will soon be better than what is now stated in Rule 91 (3). We all agree that this offers very little guidance. Mr De Graaf asked whether the Schengen Convention also required a two-thirds majority. Isn't it so profound that it's really institutional in nature? I agree with him and it is not for nothing that the Treaty of Amsterdam has made this an integral part of the treaties on which the European Union is founded. A country such as Ireland has stipulated an exemption. Perhaps that has something to do with Ireland having a reinforced majority requirement. It can sometimes be good for the negotiating position of a country if it can say: I cannot come home with it, I really need something more, such as an exception position. That is why I think that is an interesting example. Mr De Graaf has also referred to Rule 137 (4) that it cannot be that you put the second reading in the refrigerator while the state committee still has to report. I agree with him. In fact, not only was he the minister defending that vision at the time, but I was also spokesperson on behalf of the SGP, and I supported the precise interpretation of that article rather than the straightforward one. That is why I felt that I should choose my wording carefully and that it was not a question of delay, but that there might have been enough time in the normal constitutional procedure for the State Committee to reach conclusions on time, so that they could be taken into account properly in the second reading in the First Chamber, after the proposal could have been supported again in the Second Chamber. At least that was the thrust of what I wanted to put forward. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has said that the role and significance of the European Union is not so much emphasised by me in a positive sense. I agree with what Mr Van Dijk said about this in his term. I certainly also see the benefits, the value that European cooperation has brought to the Netherlands. I don't dive away from that as initiator either. However, I am very concerned about the distortion that has arisen over time: European integration has begun to gain the protection of our national sovereignty and constitution. I find the most striking expression of this is the motion tabled in 1980 by Mr Brinkhorst, Mr van den Broek and Mr Nijpels in the House of Representatives. In fact, this motion stated that, in case of doubt about the compatibility of our Constitution with European integration, priority should always be given to European integration. I am not ashamed to say here that it is really not the vision I stand for to say that we should make the national Constitution small, because Europe and European integration must be given priority. Not for nothing is exactly the past period that motion has been revoked by the House of Representatives. If we take this step, it would be in line with an approach that would strike a more balanced balance between the protection of national constitutions and European integration. GroenLinks has also stressed the political context of increasing criticism of European integration. I have just said to the VVD Group what I appreciate about this. Not every thought against the European Union is justified. We all have different political views on this, but when it comes to the constitutional rules of the game, I do believe that the protection of our national constitution can and must be strengthened, even in the light of what is common in other countries. The Minister indicated that Germany would not know about this procedure. That's different information than I have on the basis of the State Commission and other sources. Germany's Grundgesetz recognises the special position of Europe in Article 23 and states that a constitutional change applies when establishing or amending the Treaty base or other arrangements. The Bundestag and the Bundesrat must then agree by qualified majority and according to the Bundesverfassungsgericht any transfer of powers should be treated as such a substantive constitutional change, and that was the case for all EU treaties concluded since the introduction of the said Article 23. That is the information I have on the situation in Germany. Finally, I would also like to thank Mr Köhler of the SP Group for their strong support. I can imagine the approach that no new studies are desirable, but now it is really desirable to give up. Or indeed this Chamber would like to take that step, we shall see. My wish would be, but of course I also respect the rules of this house. If a majority in this House thinks that suspension is necessary, then of course I respect it as a result of this debate. In my opinion, it is not desirable for the third time to allow state lawyers to look into this issue, but it is mainly a matter of political clarity and choices. Mr. Chairman. Finally, allow me to express my thanks to Mr Peter Boswijk, Mr Willem de Wildt and Mr Henri Kroneman, who have given me excellent support, also in replying to your questions today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u155	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u156	Mr. Chairman. I still have a few points that were left in front of me. First of all, Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question on how more detailed interpretation could be made of Article 1 (3) of the Constitution. I have already referred to the implementation of the Schinkelshoek motion, which now contains a paragraph in every law and which is specifically judged by the government. This is, of course, part of the advisory process for the Council of State and also the subject of discussion in the Second and First Chambers. The Chambers could indeed intend to look even more critically at that paragraph. Then it's also where it's supposed to be. I agree that this may be too little in practice and that it could be done more broadly. In response to Mrs Bikker and also Mr Van der Staaij, I took up the German Grundgesetz. I must immediately point out that there is, of course, a Bundesverfassungsgericht in Germany, which can then give effect to the Constitution, unlike in the Netherlands, where Article 120 of our Constitution excludes a test of the Constitution. I'd like to stay out of that for a while. Article 59 of the German Grundgesetz states: "Verträge bedürfen der Zustimmung in der Form eines Bundesgesetzes'. Treaties require authorisation in the form of a law, which refers to ordinary legislation. Indeed, Article 79 (2) is worded as follows: "ein solches Gesetz bedarf der Zustimmung von zwei Dritteln der Mitglieder des Bundestages und zwei Dritteln der Stimmen des Bundesrates'. In addition, "ein solches Gesetz" refers back to paragraph 1, which states in a sub-paragraph that the "Grundgesetz nur durch ein Gesetz was geändert kann, das den Wortlaut des Grundgesetzes ausdrücklich ändert." With an apology to the Stenographic Service, I say that means 'the wording of the constitution is explicitly changed'. That's what it says. How this is implemented for individual conventions by the Bundesverfassungsgericht could also be a subject on which you may disagree. I would like to leave that in the middle, but I hope that I may have been able to explain how there may be different impressions of the German law on this point. Finally, perhaps a word in connection with the debate on Mrs Duthler's motion. I want to be clear about this: the government's opinion on the amendment of the constitution before us is clear. We do not need that advice for the government's opinion. On the other hand, Mrs Duthler's previous motion, which was widely supported, states in the first recital that "European decision-making for the parliamentary task and its shaping has increased importance for both Chambers of the States General." I can very well imagine that you find that typical of something that could be a subject of further reflection in that state committee. I have also promised that if that motion is adopted, I will pass that wish on to the members of the State Committee. I'd like to leave it at that. Finally, I would once again like to thank the author for the excellent work he has done on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-eerstekamer-8.u157	I would like to thank the initiator and the Minister for their second-term contribution. On this point in the debate, I note that there is a motion which proposes to hold the further discussion pending further examination and reporting by the state committee to be set up. The motion actually contains a point of order or a point of order, and my proposal to the Chamber is to vote first on the Duthler motion. Depending on the outcome of the vote, my proposal will be to suspend the debate on this legislative proposal or to finalise the debate and to vote on the legislative proposal. Before we get there, I would like to suspend the sitting for discussion in the political groups.
