ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome all the people who are watching, the people upstairs in the stands and all the people who are following the debate thanks to the cameras. Of course, I would also like to welcome Mrs Karabulut in trade union K, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, her support, the support of the Chamber and our colleagues. As you can see, Mrs. Karabulut is in Box K today. She is supported in the defence of her own initiative proposal by Thijs Coppus, party member of the SP. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment will act as advisor to the Chamber in the examination of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The answer will take place at a later date and we will arrange it in consultation with the initiator. I am the first speaker from the Chamber to give the floor to Mrs Voortman from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. She has a ten-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I will begin with a compliment to the petitioner of the present bill and to her support. An initiative proposal is always hard work. The author of this bill, Mrs Karabulut of the SP, raises the subject of repression time and time again in the House of Representatives. And that is good, because unfortunately there is still too much displacement on the labour market. Displacement in the labour market involves the displacement of paid work by people who have to do the same work for less or no money. Think of the commitment by municipalities of people who work while retaining benefits, a test placement, a consideration, a work experience place, an internship or volunteering. They can all be useful as long as it is an addition to the paid work that is already being done, to a place to learn for the trainee or to work done by a volunteer because otherwise it would not be done. But there is also a risk: the risk of displacement. Work previously paid is now carried out by volunteers or by people on benefits. The most bizarre examples come to our attention. Think of the many volunteers in hospitals to take people in wheelchairs to the right department, or to provide activity guidance and coffee in nursing homes. Some of these activities were previously part of a paid job and are now increasingly being pushed off the labour market as paid work. Unfortunately, we also hear that the job agreement to help disabled people get to work replaces regular jobs with subsidised jobs. Displacement of paid work may be cheap for the employer, but not for society as a whole. This means that fewer people have a normal paid job, there are more people with benefits and, most importantly, people are not simply paid for the valuable work they do. So if we can do more to prevent displacement, GroenLinks wants that to happen. This legislative proposal will ensure greater awareness of displacement and that municipalities will have to look more closely at the question of displacement. Research carried out by the 2015 Inspection SZW shows, for example, that customer managers at the municipality in some cases accept some degree of displacement. They are sometimes okay with letting people with benefits do work that effectively replaces paid work. Moreover, the lack of detailed policies often leads municipalities to fail to make sufficiently clear how the customer manager weighs the different interests in the choice of an instrument. It is hardly possible for a city council to actively implement this. It is therefore a good thing that this legal framework should be used to better monitor displacement. Legal anchoring of what is displacement provides a clearer framework and helps city councils and victims of displacement to address this. My group does have questions about the relationship with volunteering and new forms of participation. How do we ensure that voluntary work or other forms of participation are not unnecessarily prohibited? A typical example of how rules can work badly is the neighbourhood bus in Waterland. A new neighborhood bus, organized and operated by volunteers, comes to a place where a bus has never been driven. People with a WW benefit would like to work as a voluntary local bus driver, without any compensation or remuneration. But the UWV prohibits this form of volunteering because this would lead to displacement. The rules of the UWV are too rigid. The WW'ers failed to convince the UWV that they really do this voluntarily and that it may also contribute to their job opportunities. It is not a question of crowding out paid work, because there has never been a bus in that place, and it would never have been there without volunteers. However, this volunteering is forbidden by the UWV. The irony is that the municipality is allowed to let people with welfare benefits do volunteer work on the local bus. In fact, the municipality could require this in return. Then suddenly it's not displacement. For GroenLinks it is important that this law does not make this kind of volunteering impossible by calling it displacement. The written reply states that this is not the case. But we would like to hear a more detailed explanation of this. Why isn't that the case? We also consider it important that this law should provide more tools to combat displacement and increase awareness about displacement, but it should not lead to much more administrative burdens. We would ask the applicant to explain how the employer must demonstrate that there is no displacement without a great deal of bureaucracy. There is also a risk that people will no longer be hired for work experience. We thank the applicant for her efforts in this area and also congratulate her for the support she has received from the trade unions and the Entrepreneurship Organisations Cleaning and Business Services. If you have such broad support, it's very special. We look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations and thanks to Mrs Karabulut and her team for coming forward with this bill. The annoyance of people wanting to work, but lost their jobs thanks to the cabinet policy of recent years, is great. The annoyance of those people who rushed into welfare in recent years is perhaps even greater. And there is also annoyance among people who want to work, also work very hard, but pay a lot of taxes to finance, for example, mass immigration. And there are more annoyances. That makes sense, after four and a half years of Rutte II. Imagine: you worked, but someone from abroad took your job thanks to open borders. Or you know that there is a concrete truce of welfare workers who get money, which is the image of people that they do nothing for it and still get money just like that. You see asylum seekers getting massively into the assistance. In a year, 13,000 Syrians and 2,000 Eritreans joined the assistance. So they come to the Netherlands massively to pin here. A total of 100,000 people have been added to the assistance in the last four years under the rule of Rutte and Asscher. 100,000 people. More than half of the assistance I'm almost done with the facts about going to non-Western immigrants and more than 60% to immigrants in general. Almost 70% of Somalis in the Netherlands are in the assistance. For Iraqis, that's 60%. Syrian opticians, rocket scientists and orthodontists: 62% of them are in welfare. Unfortunately, 3% of the Dutch are in the welfare sector. A lot of people have fallen into welfare in recent years. We consider it important to mention these figures because it sets out a framework within which the debate and the submission of this law takes place. The author of the bill, Mrs Karabulut, has a point. It wrings with work on all sides. That has to do with government policy. Partly thanks to the PVV, there was a consideration that had to be provided in order to receive a benefit. That's a good point. We still think it is great that this exists, but in recent years so many extra people, including Dutch, have come into the assistance after their forced unemployment. However, we have just heard the figures. There is more to it; there are also many people on the outside. In a world of smaller jobs and more flexibility it becomes than fighting for work. At first it took 12 hours of work a week to call it a job, but now one hour of work a week is already a job. People used to work 40 hours in one job, but now they sometimes have two jobs and they only work 24 hours in total and have a hard time. It's fighting for work. Of course, it cannot be the case that the whole of the Netherlands and in the meantime half Africa will be doing compensations and volunteering instead of normal paid work. In this way, the labour market becomes a race to the bottom. It ends in a poor Netherlands where everyone gets a basic income, occasionally what volunteering does or provides a return. So at the end of that scenario, at the end of the race to.. sorry, I wouldn't speak English... the wagers to the bottom, any incentive from the labour market. That's an ink black scenario. So that's what we're trying to prevent. In the field of social affairs, nothing has become more annoying than unintentionally getting into the assistance and then having to do your old work in return. We saw that quite quickly in the beginning, I believe somewhere in the bulb region, where people ended up on the garbage truck again when they had just been removed from it. But even worse, it's when someone else fills out your previous job in return. That is why we want to give the introduction of the displacement test, as proposed by Mrs Karabulut, a chance. It is a measure that could work well. Of course, there should be no displacement now either, but if that designation is not complete and not enough and because of the government policy of recent years is not working enough, then this test should be given a chance. As far as we are concerned, paid work is always preferable to consideration. The PVV believes that much more needs to be done to counter the current negative situation on the labour market. However, these measures are not part of this debate. In fact, we believe that the elections will be largely about that. I'm not going to talk about that right now. So I'm gonna leave it at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, the Labour Party presented a pact for certain work. I welcome the positive reactions to the plans that we set out in them for a more decent and fairer labour market. There were positive reactions from colleagues from the SP and GroenLinks, from the trade unions FNV and CNV and from the vast majority of voters of almost all parties, according to various polls. With this pact, we are trying to put an end to the slippery growth of flex jobs, where people sometimes have to work together to make ends meet at home. Flex jobs must become jobs with more certainty, with more perspective for people and not with less. It certainly should not be ex-jobs, jobs for which a normal wage has actually to be paid and for which a regular wage has often been paid, but which are carried out, for example, by people dependent on benefits. They retain their benefits, although they sometimes have to pay for such things as childcare, travel expenses and industrial clothes. The Labour Party realizes that people who rely on a benefit often have a very large distance from the labour market, for whatever reason: unfinished training, inadequate language management, have been on the sidelines for too long. As a result, they are unable or unable to recover the employer's normal wage. From day one that demands normal pay, it might mean never getting back to the job of the person concerned and that would be of no benefit to anyone. A certain run-up may then be necessary and bring a paid job closer. However, the danger of displacement, whereby paid work becomes unpaid, paid employees are thrown away from their places of employment, pressure on their own conditions of employment or the refusal of new employees to pay a normal wage is lurking. That is why I welcome Mr Karabulut's own-initiative proposal that we are discussing today. Of course, I congratulate her on the considerable amount of work she has put into this work with her staff, particularly Mr Koppens. I also congratulate Mrs Karabulut for trying to tackle a real problem. Mrs Karabulut pointed out that her proposal builds on a number of actions taken by the Labour Party. From the moment I am a Member of Parliament, I have also drawn attention to the danger of displacement. I have argued in favour of preventing this and tackling the problem of repression at the time it occurs. This is done by making rules, providing tools and making proposals for enforcement. These guidelines and rules of the game have been established, namely in several places in the law, in a guide drawn up on the basis of motions and in a number of letters to the municipalities. It makes it clear that, for example, reintegration activities and the delivery of a return should not lead to displacement and the rules that apply to them. The Labour Party believes, however, that in practice it is still lacking in dealing with repression in any case. I have asked for this to be done and for the prevention of repression to be ensured, which I would, of course, prefer. It is better to prevent it than to cure it or to let it go through. Of course, the fact that people can complain and that they can ultimately go to court is not an adequate solution. The government itself must ensure compliance with the rules it lays down. If, in the case of that government, it were only for municipalities to do something about it, it would not have been sufficient. Examination of the inspection shows precisely that they do not take sufficient account of this and that this increases the risk of displacement. I have therefore repeatedly called for local authorities to be required to carry out prior checks on displacement. As far as I am concerned, this may be in line with the idea that municipalities are in the lead when implementing the law and that they have a degree of freedom in the way they do so, for example, they can do so in a committee with trade unions and employers, at the level of labour market regions, through the involvement of the client council, through the works council of the company in which the work in question is carried out or through personal representation, but they will check if it is up to me. This is similar to what we have recently done in the context of the obligation of municipalities to create sufficient sheltered workplaces for people with severe disabilities. The motion I tabled during the budget debate last month, which was on the subject of scrutiny, I held pending this debate. I would like to hear from Mrs Karabulut how she has designed the displacement test she has proposed and whether she can take us into account on the basis of a practical example of how this is done. I am also curious whether, and if so, municipalities in their vision have room for manoeuvre in the application of the displacement test she proposes. If so, what space do they have? And what happens if a test shows that there is displacement or that there is a threat of displacement? I have just indicated that people sometimes have such a great distance from the labour market that a start is needed in the form of gaining experience during a limited period of time while retaining benefits. This is to increase the chances of a job in that labour market. How does Mrs Karabulut view this? How does she look at the argument that you often hear that from day 1 the full pay is paid, making the chances of paid work for the people in question less than greater? What impact does her initiative have on these people? Will they be more likely to have a paid job or will they be less likely to? Am I right in the end that I think I have read that, so to speak, one day with maintenance of benefit working or gaining experience, so without receiving full pay, leads to the conclusion that there is displacement and that the mere fact that a company makes profits where beneficiaries work leads to that conclusion? Are the criteria of Mrs Karabulut complementary to the law, or do they replace them in the sense that, for example, if a job has not been paid for by someone else, it will be checked on the basis of her criteria? Or is it the case that, for example, if a job has not been paid by someone else in the last year, a beneficiary can, in a manner of speaking, work without payment for six months? So, are the criteria in the initiative proposal in addition to what is in the law and the guidelines, or are they additional? Finally, I would like to ask whether Mrs Karabulut is prepared to make changes to her proposal if there is a need to achieve a majority in the Chamber. I'm gonna finish up. The Labour Party is also opposed to the displacement of paid work, and it is also opposed to the so-called exchange of normally paid workers by unpaid labour. The Labour Party is also in favour of a firm commitment to preventing and tackling repression. This is not happening at the moment, according to the investigation of the inspection. I was just saying something about that. The Labour Party also has ideas on how to do it. I am curious to hear Mrs Karabulut's answers to the questions that colleagues and I have asked. I am also curious whether we can work together to achieve an effective and more effective approach to repression. This is urgently needed, but without reducing the chances of paid employment of people who are now dependent on benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u5	At the end of his speech, Mr Kerstens asked Mrs Karabulut whether the displacement test she was proposing was in line with the rules already contained in the Act of Participation to combat displacement, or whether they were complementary to it. That's part of his closing statement. What is the preference of the Labour Party's group? That it is a clarification of the criteria already laid down in the law or that there is a tightening up of the requirements laid down in the law? Mr Kerstens left that in the middle of his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u6	As far as I am concerned, we are talking about strengthening. That's what I've been advocating before. I would not like to see the cases that have already been settled in or around the law to counter repression, all of which, in a manner of speaking, are being thrown into the gravel for the benefit of this one. I would urge you to look at the combination of these and then see if there is any displacement. Then, in my view, you're actually making it a stronger and stronger test.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u7	So if Mrs Karabulut will reply that it is a clarification of the rules, Mr Kerstens thinks the proposal is too weak. At least that's how I interpret his answer. What specific tightenings would the PvdA want? What displacement that is now apparently possible in the law should no longer be possible with this test?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u8	We would all make a great deal of progress if we were to be tested for displacement at all. Mrs Karabulut's examination of the inspection has quoted this in her documents, and I have just referred to this as well. I believe that 49% of the municipalities do not check for displacement. If we start with that, it will rule out many examples of displacement. Then, as far as I am concerned, it is a matter of fine grinding, finding each other on the basis of what criteria you do so. On some of the criteria mentioned by Mrs Karabulut, I have specifically asked how they work in practice. But the need to make more serious work of preventing and tackling displacement is beyond me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u9	It is very nice that the Labour Party supports this wonderful initiative proposal, but Mr Kerstens asked if the applicant would be willing to make a change in order to achieve a majority. In my view, it would help the applicant if Mr Kerstens indicated a little bit of the changes he himself had in mind. Or does he say this for any others and is he okay with all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm sure I'll say it for others, too, but I'm not all okay with it. Otherwise, I would not have asked the specific question I have just asked Mrs Karabulut. On some criteria, I wonder whether they are going to help the people for whom this proposal is intended or not. This has to do, among other things, with what I said, namely that it is a fact that people sometimes need a somewhat longer run-up to be able to perform their duties in full. What I would like to see is really in line with what Mrs Karabulut said. It is not for nothing, as she herself says, on a number of motions that we have tabled, sometimes together with Mr van GroenLinks' colleague, who is now at the Interrupt Microphone, and on what we have said in debates. For me, it is important that more stringent testing is carried out. That's just not happening right now. Furthermore, it should not put people in the pressure of rain, but it should help people. For me, these are standards that I measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr Ulenbelt has no further question. I would like to give Mrs Voortman the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u12	Perhaps Mr Kerstens has already answered my question, but I would like to be sure. So the Labour Party does not think that there should be any clear changes? The question of how we ensure that this does not result in people getting less to work, I have also asked. I assume that the applicant is going to give a good response to that. But we don't have to expect any amendments from the Labour Party? I'm guessing they'd have been there by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u13	Not necessarily, because I like to wait for the debate. There are no criteria that I say in advance: you have to delete them, if you want to get the Labour Party in your direction at all. There are a number of them that I have serious questions about. Suppose we introduce a displacement test that may not address displacement sufficiently but ensures that a number of people gain experience, for example through temporary work, while retaining benefits but without full pay. Now they have a chance to get a job, but maybe not anymore. That's something we all have to take a serious look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u14	I agree with Mr Kerstens, and the applicant must have a good answer to that. In this we understand each other well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u15	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u16	This will put an end to Mr Kerstens' input. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Koşer Kaya. She speaks on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Karabulut and her team. I know, like no other, what a hell of a job it is to present my own initiative and to be in trade-K to defend it. Colleagues don't make that easy, and that's how it's supposed to be. I hope she will be able to defend her own initiative proposal in the First Chamber. But, of course, we do have all kinds of questions. It is a good thing to ensure that people with benefits can get a permanent job without displacement and with false competition. If you want to avoid the latter by means of an initiative law, that is a good goal. We do have some questions. We are in agreement on the need to avoid unfair competition. But jobseekers with a great distance from the labour market must be able to gain experience. Otherwise, they will never be able to compete with other jobseekers in the labour market. Municipalities are called under the current legislation to explicitly include in their reintegration regulation how they want to combat displacement. However, we can see that this is not yet optimal; Mrs Karabulut has a point here. The question remains why, according to Mrs Karabulut, it is not enough. How does she judge this? In her opinion, what displacement is desirable and what undesirable? I also wonder, in general terms, why no solution has been chosen or a tightening up or improvement of the rules in the Participation Act; Mr Kerstens also asked questions about this. Can the initiator explain this further? Decentralisation within the social domain is now two years ago. After all, it started on 1 January 2015. It's been that long. The changes that have taken place and the new responsibilities that are emerging are just beginning to take place. Why does the author choose to propose a legislative amendment at this early stage? The Council of State also considers the practical examples referred to in the legislative proposal to be too brief to base the amendment on. The signals that are there are not unambiguous. How does the author judge this? If it considers this amendment to be appropriate, what does it base itself on? I'd like to hear a response. The aim of this proposal is to prevent people from working without pay. I'd like to ask her exactly what this means. D66 considers that working with or without wages does not necessarily belong in the debate on displacement. In fact, repression does not have to be the direct result of work without wages. I would be very sorry, for example, if voluntary work were to be made impossible in the near future. Does the petitioner want to make working without wages impossible at all? I don't think so, but I do want a clear answer to that. Does it not want this to be demonstrated as a displacement? I would also like an answer to that question. In short, I have a lot of questions. I wish the author every success in answering these questions. I'm curious to hear the answers. I put it back to my group so that it can reach a final verdict on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank Mrs Karabulut and Mr Coppus for all the work that has been put into an initiative legislative proposal. I haven't had to see it myself. I hope that will happen again someday. It is, of course, very special to work on drafting a legislative proposal and then to be able to sit in box K to defend it. I'll move on to the content. The VVD has been critical of this initiative proposal in writing. Things are getting better in the Netherlands. People have more to spend. The economy is growing and, very importantly, jobs are being created. However, too many people are still on the sidelines. The VVD thinks there's really too many of them. We have given municipalities a lot of tools in 2015 with the Participation Act to help people get back to work. Customization is the key word. In addition, we have increased the number of commitments. Let it be very clear: it is very good that there is a social safety net. It could happen to all of us that you're having a hard time and you're losing your job. However, the VVD is and remains of the opinion that it is only normal that you do everything you can to get back to work and at the same time you do something for your environment, even if it is a bit difficult for you. For that we have the mandatory consideration. You just have to make a contribution to society. The positive reports that have come out of this very recently, including from Rotterdam, show that people feel happier when they deliver such a return. After all, they do their part. In addition, everything has to be done to get back to work as quickly as possible by customization, as I mentioned earlier. You need to be able to take care of yourself as soon as possible and be independent again. I agree with the applicant that repression of labour is undesirable. That is why we, together with the PvdA, have taken this into account when designing the Participation Act. The instruments mentioned by Mrs Karabulut in her own initiative proposal, for example the mandatory consideration, participation places and work experience places, are simply clearly stated in the law that such work should not lead to labour market displacement. For the VVD that is sufficiently clearly laid down in the law. It's not the rules. It's up to municipalities to enforce the law. They can decide how they do it. As far as the VVD is concerned, so do they. If there is an unexpected displacement in a municipality, there is a very important task for the city council to take action against it. I am aware that there has not been a situation since the introduction of the Participation Act in which local democracy has not done its job properly. As far as I'm concerned, the Secretary of State hasn't had to intervene. The Participation Act is about as long as Mrs Karabulut's own initiative proposal, namely two years. In January we started with the Participation Act and I think Mrs Karabulut started with her own initiative proposal in the autumn. For a law, two years is short. In the short time that the law is in place, we have made some adjustments because things did not go quite as we had intended. We were all approached about it. We got letters and phone calls. We were then addressed during work visits. We've all experienced and experienced that. But on the subject we are discussing today, I have not been approached so often at all. The Council of State also speaks of'very few cases on which the applicant bases'. I asked the applicant in vain earlier in the written round to look again at how many concrete cases of displacement have been detected in recent years, especially in relation to the total number of placements. After all, I and with me the Council of State do not see displacement to the extent that the applicant describes, and certainly not as a major problem for which there is a need for legislative change. Perhaps the applicant will be able to come back to that in the first period. I would like to ask the applicant to return to the fact that she has not applied for an execution test. She said that she has talked to a number of parties about this and that they are all very positive, but I have not seen execution tests. I'm very curious about that. Again, let us be quite clear that the VVD is also against repression, but there are sufficient safeguards to expose possible abuses. At the moment, I can only observe and conclude that the SP wants to create additional rules, the added value of which is more than unclear to me. Does the SP perhaps want this because it doubts the role and implementation of local democracy? The VVD is convinced that this additional obligation will ultimately allow fewer people to work and thus also get to work. This takes away people with a greater distance from the labour market a chance to finally get back into the labour market. They're gonna get hurt. That is what I find most agitated about this initiative. That can't be the intention. As far as I am concerned, this initiative keeps more people who can work, depending on benefits. These benefits are paid by everyone who does work and contributes to making the Netherlands a prosperous country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u19	We know that a representative of the VVD is always hard to convince by someone from the SP. I have been here for the last ten years, but we have received a letter from the employers in the cleaning industry. In that letter they complain stone and bone; I assume you know that letter. We know the VVD as a party that is regularly persuaded by employers. Why doesn't this letter convince you? Or is that letter still the push you need to get convinced, not by me but by the employers in the cleaning business?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u20	I do know that letter. In my opinion, the cleaning industry refers to the situation in Drechtsteden a year and a half ago, where this happened and where municipalities finally decided to carry out the cleaning work themselves. I can find a lot of that, but municipalities have the freedom to decide, when the contract with a provider expires, to fill it out in a different way. There it was decided not to do it through a cleaning company anymore but to do it yourself. In my opinion, the SP was strongly in favour of several ministries also employing cleaners themselves. That's how it is. In that respect, I will not be persuaded by that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u21	Those employers will be listening. Jobs with a decent and fair wage are abandoned by unfair competition on working conditions. That's what these employers complain about. The VVD is for a fair playing field, also for cleaning companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u22	That is absolutely the case. I have also said that the VVD is against labour displacement, but we must also give people with a great distance from the labour market the opportunity to get back to work. It can be done by cleaning sometimes. Once they have gained experience in this field, they can also continue to flow. There is always some degree of displacement. If I have a job vacancy to which seven applicants respond, six people will not be elected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. Anyone else who takes your place against your will, displacement, is a particularly annoying experience. When you talk to people who've been through that, it's always the chorus. You will only have spent years in a nursing home and one day you will hear that you only have the choice between continuing your work unpaid or saying goodbye. This is a cause for deep disappointment among those involved. The SGP therefore appreciates the commitment of the initiator to put this issue on the agenda with this legislative proposal. I also appreciate the legislative work she is doing. The SGP itself also appreciates the implementation and deployment of the bill, but still has some serious reservations about the proposed impact. I'd like to share those six points with you. Firstly, the key question for the SGP is to what extent the initiator recognises that certain forms of paid work can disappear over time. We have seen this several times in the past and in all kinds of ways. I have a bit of the impression that she wants to retain the existing forms of employment in the legislative proposal at all costs. I'd like to invite her to elaborate on this. Can society develop in a healthy way if all tasks always have to remain with the government, a semi-government or a subsidised institution? Is the proposal not contrary to the idea that it can be a good thing for citizens to take over certain provisions themselves? Specifically, whether it is wrong for citizens to take responsibility together for a lending point for books in the village, for example, in order to avoid any kind of library provision being left in the neighborhood. In writing, my group has set an example of a park ranger. Should we, if his job expires, rather accept that the park is ruined or can benefit recipients make a nice contribution in the context of work experience? I would like to hear what the initiator has to say about this. My second point concerns reintegration. I would like to hear what possibilities the initiator still sees for reintegration. Under the Participation Act, municipalities can use financial support to help workers with disabilities to get a job. Would this medicine be suspicious in advance because it is cheaper than others? How does the initiator see that? The third point concerns the deadline mentioned in the legislative proposal. According to the initiator, there is displacement if certain activities have ever been paid in the previous five years. Is that term seriously workable? What if a nursing home scrapes the paid coffee and after three years, without a premeditated plan, a municipality wants to use the coffee as a social achievement? Is it then real to speak of repression? Why can we not be satisfied with a criterion of substance as set out in Article 8d? I have the impression that the use of a time limit here can be very rigid in relation to what the initiator is actually trying to do. I come to the next point. The proposal leaves unclear as to whether the displacement test should be applied only to beneficiaries or also to volunteers. The definition of displacement refers only to beneficiaries but to Article 8d (2) (b). in general terms, it talks about replacing paid labour with unpaid labour. The latter may also cover voluntary work carried out outside the framework of the Participation Act. I would like a clarification from the initiator as to what exactly is intended. What would it mean if the classic volunteering was not covered by the bill? In that case, I have the impression that the beneficiaries could be worse off, since the same voluntary work cannot be done by them but by the classical volunteers. They then miss the opportunity to gain social experience. I'd like to hear from the initiator about the situation. Then I come to the following point: how the possibility of carrying out all kinds of work can be regulated in lower regulation. It is more common for the law to allow for the adoption of a General Administrative Measure which regulates more categories than is required by law. However, in this case part of the displacement would be regulated in the law and part in an AMvB. This is, according to the experience of the SGP, a rather curious figure in legal terms. Can the initiator explain why, in the event of an extension of work and so on, the royal route of legislative change should not be followed in advance? Why could it also be arranged in an AMvB? My sixth and final point concerns supervision. The proposal does not regulate the supervision of the Empire so much as the use of the SZW Inspection. The proposal does not seem to use the concept of "supervisory" because, if I understand correctly, the inspection should only signal and not maintain it. Why does this particular construction apply? Why depart from the basic principle that the city council is the regulator, which controls compliance with the law? In this respect, too, the legislative proposal still offers some open ground. I would like to hear the initiativer's reflection on this. I await the response to these questions and stress that it will be a factor in our final voting behaviour. I would like to wish the initiator a great deal of joy and energy in preparing her response to the glowing speeches made by my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u24	Joy and energy are always important, not only with regard to an initiative legislative proposal, so I also wish Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. Following on from several colleagues, I would also like to pay tribute and respect to Mrs Karabulut and her support for the great amount of time and effort that has been put into this initiative proposal. Mrs Karabulut and I often disagree in debates, but I do respect both the workmanship and the passion with which she fights for subjects close to her heart. It is precisely because of these two aspects that this is a special debate. For me, in four and a half years of parliamentary membership, this is the first debate in which we have been talking for an hour about repression, but Mrs Karabulut herself has not yet spoken. She has thus also worked in a somewhat difficult position with regard to her passion for this subject. I would like her to be able to make up for this in her first term if she answers the questions we ask her. In my view, the aim of this proposal is broadly shared: to combat labour market displacement. This objective is also set out in the Participation Act, as a number of colleagues have already pointed out. It's pretty explicit. Local democracy has a responsibility to counter this displacement. That is why I doubt this bill, because what does it add to it? I myself think that the example of the 'neighborhood bus' compliments Mrs Voortman on the fact that the 'expansion field' indicates quite well. Local democracy must do its job and combat real displacement, but we have almost all been hoping for examples of the UWV in which volunteering was made impossible because otherwise people would be cut back on their benefits. The example of the neighborhood bus underlines that. So there's a tension field. There is a risk that by taking an extra test, we will try to combat this real displacement, make voluntary work impossible on the one hand, and also deprive people of the opportunity to intervene in the labour market. My next question touches a little on the interruption debate I just had with Mr Kerstens. What does this bill add to the possibilities of combating displacement that are already in the law? Can Mrs Karabulut also support this with examples? What examples of displacement have played in recent years where local democracy has not done its job? What examples of displacement do we see in the Netherlands, what examples of displacement do local democracy exist, which are no longer possible by introducing this displacement test? The answer to that question makes the weighting of this proposal easier. My starting position is that the Participation Act has just entered into force. I also share the conclusion of the Council of State that it is actually premature to conclude now that the municipal councils, i.e. local democracy, are not doing that work properly. I don't know many examples. The examples I know have almost always led to local discussion and adaptation. So they could also be proof that it does work. So I too would like to hear an explanation on this point. What does the proposal do on top of what has already been arranged? Mrs Voortman has already mentioned that there was explicit support for the proposal from both the FNV and yesterday in a letter from the OSB. I would like to hear from Mrs Karabulut which employers' and employees' organisations she has spoken with and how these social partners look at it. I don't think there's been a lot of letters coming from people who are against it. So there was little counter gas from the polder, but I am curious to know who she spoke with and what the approach was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. It does not happen so often in politics that one agrees from left to right. Those who have followed this debate have heard that everyone says that displacement of paid work by unpaid work is undesirable. That's good. However, we also know that, in practice, things are often different from what we would like here and that the standards laid down in the law are being deviated from. In many places in this country, the displacement of paid work by unpaid work has almost become established. You look for work, you are also put to work with colleagues who do the same work, but you are not paid for it. You don't get the statutory minimum wage, let alone the collective wage. The consequences are disastrous. It undermines the Law on minimum wage, it leads to the displacement of paid jobs, it leads to unemployment of people who had work and it leads to working poor. It is also unfair competition. Small entrepreneurs who just pay their staff neatly can't go in this race to the bottom. And then I haven't mentioned the job seekers in the welfare services, who often experience this as a humiliation. You're unlucky to be unemployed after 30 years, you're at the end of the WW, you're still looking for work from that assistance, but you're then forced to work without pay. All the groups know the sad examples. I mention the factory halls in Dinxperlo and Ulft where artificial flowers and envelopes were made. Until 2011, this was done neatly by people with a contract of employment and then they had to do it for years without pay. The municipality was left with €500,000. Also a very well-known, almost world-famous example in the meantime, Harry, the Hague street sweeper, has been dismissed by reorganisation. After his resignation and WW he joined the welfare service. Then he had to do the same work, but for the assistance. Nobody wants that. There are many other examples of this kind. We do not hear many examples either. I would like to emphasise this to my fellow Members. Many people in welfare do not dare to tell exactly what objections they have because they are afraid of sanctions from their congregation. So we don't hear everything. In Aalten and in The Hague, people resisted and won. Yesterday I saw the video of two women in Zwijndrecht. They worked for a cleaning company. Other people are being deployed and now they are unemployed. If your work is taken over by someone in welfare without pay, that's very, very acidic. If you're fired from your company because things are bad, it's painful, too, but you can still understand that. If your paid place is taken by someone who isn't paid, we think it's crazy. It's not just incidents and isolated examples. Research by the FNV, my own party, and the research programme De Monitor also showed that there is a lot of work without pay. The Labour Inspectorate noted that municipalities often did not even check whether reintegration leads to the displacement of paid work and that local drivers sometimes even accept the displacement of paid work. My party, which is, I just hear, other parties have noticed that over the past few years, have asked dozens of questions, but each time the Secretary of State referred to the municipalities again. If one thing has become clear from the answer to all these questions, it is that municipalities lack the clear criteria to assess whether there is displacement or not. Sometimes they think it's the most normal thing in the world, but the whole Chamber doesn't think that's what the debate shows. In December 2013, Ms Hamer and Mr Kerstens of the PvdA tabled a motion, which was adopted, calling on the government to "declare rules with measures and clear criteria for maximum prevention and monitoring of displacement." To our regret, I also regret the authors; at least, I assume, the Secretary of State has still not carried out this motion. However, we have Mrs Karabulut and she does so with this initiative proposal. I think that the whole Chamber should be pleased that the implementation of the Hamer/Kerstens motion is now very clearly on the agenda. I have two more questions. Why did the initiator opt for a displacement test instead of changing the reintegration articles in the relevant social security laws? Can the initiator outline what enforcement will look like in practice and what the consequences of the introduction of this law will be for the municipalities? Finally. There is support, even from an unsuspecting angle. Employers in the cleaning industry support this bill. They're gilded with it. They even put forward a proposal to improve the legislative initiative. They propose not only to include the minimum wage, but also to apply the collective wage where appropriate. My question to the applicant is what she thinks of that. The FNV supports the proposal. The objective is widely supported by the Chamber. What good is it for us to embrace this bill to achieve the goal that every party in this Chamber wants to achieve?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you. In this way, we shall be in first place at the end of the Chamber's contribution. As mentioned earlier, the response of the initiator, Mrs Karabulut, will be taken at a later date.
