ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. With this amendment to the EIA Directive, the EU aims to clarify the EIA assessment procedure, improve the quality and content of the environmental impact report and streamline the EIA procedure with other EU rules. The promise is that this could better protect the environment, use resources more efficiently and promote sustainable growth. Of course, the Animal Party has nothing against making more efficient use of resources, but against economic growth as a solution to all problems. As far as we are concerned, economic growth is not the solution, but the problem on a planet that is exhausted by a rapidly growing world population with increasing consumption. 'Business as usual' is, as far as my group is concerned, ostrich politics. Whoever puts his head in the sand today grinds his teeth tomorrow. As far as we are concerned, the objective of growth reveals a policy practice that my group fundamentally disagrees with. As many, including environmental philosopher Marius de Geus, have pointed out, more production goes almost by definition to the detriment of the environment and economic growth results in consistent environmental destruction, to a greater or lesser extent. Economic growth would be "sustainable" if linked to technological progress and increased efficiency. In this way, we could increase the cake and control all environmental problems. A win-win situation was used to be called that. 'No bullshit, everyone rich', in the words of Mr. F. Jacobse and Mr. Tedje van Es, many of you still know, well before Mr. Jacobse repented and became a list-duster of the Party for Animals. This EIA directive, its implementation and the Environment Act to which this bill will form part, are the result of this underlying, very outdated belief in progress. Given the way in which this new EIA Directive has been implemented, this cabinet is primarily concerned with business interests at the expense of a policy that focuses on the environment and thereby dwindles future generations in favour of short-term prosperity for the current generation. It does not surprise the Animal Party, but it does disappoint it that the government is not using the revision of the EIA Directive to better guarantee the quality of the environmental impact report in national legislation and does not go beyond the European minimum. The EU Directive gives rise to two new provisions: the initiator should ensure that the environmental impact report is drawn up by "competent experts" and the competent authority should have sufficient expertise to assess or have access to the environmental impact report. As far as my group is concerned, an assessment of the possible effects by an objective, scientific consultancy would only make sense. The original proposal of the European Commission included the introduction of a certification system for consultancy firms and consultants. This system has the advantage that the initiator knows when the requirement of "knowledge" is met. The Dutch Government has opposed this proposal and has chosen not to introduce it legally. The explanatory memorandum also highlights the high cost to industry and the public authorities of such a certification system, but the government ignores the weighting of the environmental gains that could be on the other side. My question to the Minister is: have the expected positive effects on the environment of this certification system been examined? The question of what we can or cannot afford should not be primarily about money, but about the most precious thing we have and what is rapidly disappearing. Of the original nature in our country, according to calculations by the Planbureau voor de Levenenvironment, only 15% remains. Will this law and tightening up the EIA directive help to reverse the tide? My group very much doubts that. The government considers that a certification system runs counter to its desire to simplify the regulatory environment and reduce the regulatory burden on business, as can be seen in the explanatory memorandum. At a time when VVD representatives are advocating a ban on vegetarian schnitzels and vegetarian sausages, it is a gutter game to argue for reducing regulatory pressure and regulations in the protection of nature and the environment. A far too high percentage of environmental impact reports, 63% to 66%, showed essential shortcomings from 2012. It takes time, energy and money to remedy these shortcomings. A recent example is the giga goat stable. At the Schoofbandweg in Rossum, on the border with Zaltbommel, one of the largest goat stables in the country is planned, with 5,100 animals, which can pose a great danger to neighbors and neighbouring farms, as we know since the Q-fever epidemic that killed 75 people and made hundreds of people chronically ill. This makes the goat stable a major danger to the city of Zaltbommel and also to adjacent nature reserves. The Council of State destroyed the authorisation in December and not all Natura 2000 sites were included in the environmental impact report. It's a lingering matter. And this is one of many examples of a long-term process in which the quality of the reports is inadequate. In addition, the low quality of environmental impact reports clouds the public debate on the desirability of certain projects. This discussion cannot be conducted properly in the front if there is no good, independent scientific information on the environmental impact. Moreover, it is unclear what is now meant by "competent experts" and "sufficient expertise." Where are the criteria from which to determine who is a reliable party to produce an environmental impact report? I'd like a response from the Minister. How is the Minister going to ensure better quality? How is it going to ensure that the far too high percentage of failing reports is drastically reduced? Another flaw in this legislative proposal is that the Commission's opinion on the environmental impact assessment for the EIA project becomes optional for the limited procedure. In addition to pointing out to the competent authority that this possibility exists, an optional opinion has no added value, since the Commission can now also be asked for its opinion on environmental impact assessment on a voluntary basis without a legal basis. Why did the Minister not choose to impose an obligation on the environmental impact assessment for the limited procedure for projects? I'd like a response. Finally. This cabinet has chosen not to regulate more than is required by the EU, less than what the EU originally advised, unless there are proven reasons to do so. For my group, there are those reasons for doing so. As I said, we have only 15% of our original nature left in the Netherlands. We are the country with the largest livestock density in the world, where livestock must shrink and there must be no new megasses. That is why we should make additional demands on the EIA procedure and, at least, ensure that independent scientific advisors give adequate advice on the project in the case of projects, and that this advice is more important than it is now. It has become clear that with the implementation of the new directive, the government has wanted to spare businesses the risk of the protection of the environment in our already highly industrialised country. The Animal Party cannot therefore agree to this revised EIA Directive for projects on the basis of the present draft law. I look forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you realize how dependent we all are on the electricity grid in this country, because when that stops, a lot stops and the appearance is enormous. I even had to light a candle this morning when I woke up. Fortunately, I could find that, but the radio doesn't work either, so you also wonder: how do I find out what's going on? Anyway, let's get this over with. I am glad to be here and to be able to speak on this subject, because that is what my group is very concerned about. It is the directive that is being implemented with a view to clarifying the assessment procedure of the environmental impact assessment on quality and content. This procedure needs to be improved and the procedure streamlined with other environmental assessments resulting from EU legislation. All this should lead to a better protection of the environment, a more efficient use of resources and the promotion of sustainable growth in Europe. My group is concerned about whether this change in the EIA regulation will bring all this about. There is a lot going on right now in the area of environmental law. This is being fundamentally changed, including the environmental impact assessment. The environmental impact assessment legislation has been established to give the environmental interest an explicit role in the decision-making of plans and projects such as roads, airports, industrial sites, housing sites, office complexes and agricultural industrial sites. The explicit position of the environmental interest threatens to be weakened both in this revision of the EIA Directive and in the new Environmental Act with all its AMvBs. Under the motto "simple regulation, speed up procedures and greater flexibility for initiatives," hard legal safeguards are abolished and replaced by mantras: have confidence in governments and project promoters and give them the space and responsibility. And well, if it all goes wrong, anyone can go to court afterwards or ask for enforcement on the board of the municipality or the county. My group has great difficulty with these amendments, which, in our view, weaken the legal protection of environmental interests and their legal basis. This has been going on for years. The economic importance is greater and should not be thwarted by environmental interests and the participation of residents who, in the opinion of the Cabinet, have an excessive role in the decision-making process. Making the Crisis and Recovery Act permanent, the Environment Act and the austerities in the EIA regulations all fit in this line. More room for initiators, often those who have economic interests, more speed for them, more flexibility and less procedural burdens. My group also finds it extremely difficult that we are constantly confusing what is regulated in the Environment Act and what is regulated in this environmental impact review and that we have to regulate something in the Environment Act at several times and then in environmental legislation. We do not think that this type of decision-making and this procedure offer the most clarity, while the decision-making process should be clear and clear. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. I shall now turn to the amendment before us, starting with the abolition of the mandatory independent review by the Commission. the environmental impact assessment in complex projects. My group has a big problem with that. During the plenary debate on the Environment Act, I asked critical questions about deteriorations in the EIA project, such as the removal of the independent quality test by the Commission in particular. in complex projects. The Minister referred to the law we are discussing today and it was in the Lower House at the time and stated that the M.e.r. and its function is not restricted in the Environmental Act. After all, the competent authority will decide for itself at a project EIA or the Commission in particular. advice is requested. Also in the written procedure prior to today's debate, the Minister wrote that this bill contains no change in the role of the Commission in particular. I find these concealing answers. It is for the Commission's practice in particular. and for the practice of independent quality testing, a major change is that this independent quality test on the EIA has been removed and becomes "dependant" on the good will of the competent authority and the willingness to incur costs for this. This is particularly true now that the costs have been considerably increased. Because the cabinet decided on a cost-covering tariff for the Commission-e.r. That could be a reason to abandon it. This Chamber expressed concerns about this and the Minister promised an evaluation in 2016. What's the status of this evaluation? The existing obligation for complex projects to the Commission in particular. to have an independent assessment of the content of the environmental impact reports carried out, is thus abolished. The Minister motivates this by stating that the responsibility for the quality of information and the quality of decision-making lies with the competent authority, often B and W of municipalities or Deputy States of the provinces. The Minister considers it important for the competent authority, for example B and W, to make a conscious choice whether or not to ask for independent advice, because the competent authority will then attach great importance to such an independent opinion, the Minister states in her reply to our Chamber. This is obviously less true when it is legally binding independent advice. Moreover, the Minister says that this situation already applies to ordinary projects, so why should there be a legal obligation for complex projects and why should that be different? That is how she wrote in the reply. This isn't convincing. It is precisely for complex projects that independent advice is crucial. These are often complex projects, the consequences of which are difficult to assess, which can have effects in all other areas and where there can be accumulation in environmental taxation. I have just heard Mrs Teunissen mention examples from intensive livestock farming. This is a constant issue, perhaps more so than in any other situation. It is precisely then that an environmental impact assessment of high quality is of great importance and thus a test of quality by an independent Commission. This interest is only increased by the Environmental Law, which lays down tasks and powers with municipalities, unless there are overriding interests. The Environment Act shifts many tasks to the initiator, such as having an environmental impact assessment drawn up. In that case, it is crucial that the local authority performs its task of monitoring the quality of information and decision-making properly, with the support of an independent opinion of the Commission in particular. It should not be the case that just an unwilling B and W who, because of economic interests, wants to continue a particular project does not ask for independent advice. The same applies to a B and W that does not have sufficient human power, capacity and money and therefore does not belong to an independent advice, or a B and W that considers the cost of independent review too high, as I mentioned earlier. An independent review of the environmental impact assessment by the Commission in particular. contributes to good quality knowledge and information on environmental impacts, including, and hence, good decision-making. So do not leave that to the good will of the competent authority, but lay it down in the law. An independent review of the environmental impact assessment is also very important for the participation of citizens. Citizens are already lagging behind from initiators and governments. For them, an independent review of the information on a project, its environmental impact and possible alternatives is very important. It strengthens transparency and confidence in good decision-making. We therefore believe that this independent review by the Commission is particularly important. in the case of complex projects, due to the importance for the quality of information, the quality of decision-making and the support of participation by citizens and stakeholders. I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. In the written reply, the Minister referred to the good experience with the Crisis and Recovery Act, which required an independent test by the Commission in particular. was abolished. The Minister writes in reply to my group's questions that the Crisis and Recovery Act shows that competent authorities handle this wisely and that, according to her, the competent authority usually advises the Commission in particular. will apply. What does the Minister base this on? The Commission...................................................................................................... has verified that out of the 100 projects under this law only five have been voluntarily independently assessed, of which three airport decisions, namely Twente, Lelystad and Eindhoven. Furthermore, nineteen road projects, including the Ringweg-Zuid, the A7 at Groningen, have not been tested voluntarily independently. This includes many national roads, for which this minister is the competent authority. But even she doesn't. GroenLinks would like to receive further information from the Minister on the progress of the voluntary independent EIA review of projects. Our conclusion is that only 5% of voluntary independent advice has been requested. Where does the Minister's expectation come from that competent authorities will usually do so? In this context, I would remind you once again of the substantial increase in costs and the assessment which the Minister has promised us. Is she prepared, yet that obligation for an independent m.e.r. maintain for complex projects? We also have a problem with removing the obligation to monitor environmental impacts, especially in the case of complex projects. The competent authority should explicitly decide whether securities should be monitored and, if so, what effects, how and for how long. My group sees the risk that certain environmental effects will not be monitored, which is important for nature, the environment and health. We ask the Minister why there is not always an independent review based on existing scientific research, on which the environmental impacts to be monitored are determined. In addition, we have concerns about the quality of the monitoring. Why doesn't the cabinet opt for a national quality standard? The Minister replied to written questions on this point that the quality of the monitoring is ensured by the possibility of appealing against the decision. That's the reverse world, isn't it? In future, therefore, the citizen or the person concerned must ensure that quality is guaranteed by appeal. With this, the government throws its responsibility very easily over the fence. Moreover, this does not do justice to the reality of appeal. There are high thresholds for this, such as the rising costs, the huge time span, the reluctant judicial review and the large amount of knowledge and information needed to have a chance of success. Also in response to our question of how to ensure that all major environmental impacts are taken into account and monitored, the Minister refers to the possibility of going to court. Thus, quality assurance becomes dependent on whether there is a citizen or an interested party with sufficient time, money and opportunities to go to court or a review body. This isn't supposed to happen, is it? The Minister shall also refer to the competent authority which is required to maintain this authority and to the citizen or interested party who may request enforcement of the competent authority where appropriate measures have been adopted or are necessary to prevent the crossing of environmental limits. Here too, the citizen or interested party is in a weaker position, depending on the ability and the will of the competent authority to enforce. Because what happens if the competent authority doesn't want or says it doesn't have any money or capacity for that? How is it ensured that the necessary appropriate measures are taken? When it comes to participation, the Minister states that the competent authority must motivate afterwards, how it has dealt with participation and the results of the EIA. The Minister does not want to legally define how participation should be made possible and how the quality of participation is guaranteed. This provides very little guidance for citizens and stakeholders. The balance of power between project promoters and citizens is shifting further to the detriment of citizens. In combination with other shifts in the Environment Act, such as more space for initiators, more flexibility and abolition of the mandatory test of the m.e.r. by the Commission in particular, this does not look good for participation. How does the Minister see this? What will it do to ensure that participation is sufficient? I have a number of critical comments on possible conflicts of interest due to the lack of adequate separation of functions. Because when the competent authority, e.g. mayor and aldermen, is both the initiator of a project and the guarantor of the quality of information on environmental impacts, health effects and decision-making, there can be conflict of interest. Indeed, it is not unthinkable that both B and W have major interests in the continuation of a project, both economically and politically, that there will be a certain degree of conflict of interest here and that it is therefore very important that there is a clear and transparent separation between that role as initiator of a project and that authority as competent authority, which must assess quality and ensure the decision-making process. The EU directive therefore requires a separation of the administrative process. Officials involved in the project itself should not be involved in assessing the quality of the information necessary for proper decision-making, such as the assessment of environmental impacts and health impacts. The cabinet has incorporated the provision on this in the directive one-on-one in the present legislative proposal. In doing so, the law says very little about how this administrative separation should be implemented and implemented in practice. The separation is difficult to achieve in practice, especially for small municipalities. However, the amendment of the Labour Party's amendment in the Lower House states that the competent authority must lay down the manner in which it does so, in working processes and procedures, and ensure that they are complied with. For this purpose, an appropriate separation function is established. Can the Minister inform us about the content of this hand-out? We have heard that the concept of separation is carried out only at a personal level and that it is therefore still possible that within one municipal unit both those who have to prepare the role of the initiator and those who have to ensure a proper assessment of the environmental impact and the quality of decision-making. In order for this to happen within one section, my group seems completely inadequate. I also refer to the ruling of the Council of State of 17 December 2014 and to a preliminary ruling of the European Court of Justice of 28 July 2016, in which both bodies look very critically at the appearance of bias. On that basis, the Council of State upheld an appealant. The European Court considered that in the event that the competent authority is both initiator and responsible for the environmental opinion on this matter, it should be ensured that the environmental advice is produced independently. If this is not guaranteed, the plan or programme must be destroyed and only under strict conditions can legal effects be temporarily maintained. That must then be checked by the judge or the European Court. In short, the requirements for administrative separation, in order to guarantee completely independent environmental advice, are strict. How will the Netherlands comply? Please explain what the Minister is preparing for the hand-out. In addition, the Cabinet is not prepared to introduce administrative separation, which is very important for public confidence, for avoiding the appearance of conflict of interest and for transparent and confidence-building decision-making. The Minister considers this unnecessary, referring to the General Administrative Law Act. It would provide sufficient safeguards in the legal system, since any interested party can appeal. The Minister leaves it to the citizen again. The real monkey from the sleeve is the mantra "The Netherlands doesn't want headlines on EU legislation." That is what was agreed in the coalition agreement. I appeal to the Minister to look at the great importance of ensuring unbiased decision-making. In my group's view, separation at administrative level is crucial for transparent and independent decision-making and for the legitimacy and trust of the government. That trust must be based on something, I say to the Minister. You cannot ask citizens and stakeholders to blindly trust the government. We have learned that lesson by now. I'll come to a conclusion. My group is critical of this legislative proposal on the abolition of the requirement for an independent quality test in a project EIA in complex projects by the Commission, especially in connection with decentralisation and flexibility in the new Environment Act. In addition, we are extremely critical of the fact that we no longer require monitoring and lack of quality standards. We are also critical of the lack of separation of functions as a government, for example a municipality, both the initiator and the competent authority of a project. We are extremely interested in the Minister's answers. That is what our final assessment of this change of law depends on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The PVV is not enthusiastic about a proposal aimed at promoting "sustainable growth in the European Union" by implementing an EU Directive which aims, inter alia, to "update environmental and socio-economic change and challenges"; aligning the EIA Directive with the "EU Smart Regulation Principles" and codifying the rulings of the EU Court of Justice. In short, even more barn orders from Brussels. The Second Parliamentary Procedure showed that until then only Poland has implemented this directive. Can the Minister state the current state of affairs, or is the Netherlands one of Juncker's best boys again? The amendments to Article 12 of the Directive are again exemplary in Brussels. This new provision provides for mandatory reporting to the European Commission. Member States should "declare every six years, in so far as the information is available, the number of activities carried out under an EIA procedure, the type of activities involved, the number of EIA assessments carried out, the average duration of the EIA process and an estimate of the average cost of environmental impact assessment." The same applies to the amendments to Article 7 of the Directive on provisions for EIA procedures for activities with potentially cross-border effects: "The provision that Member States may agree on the implementation of this Article shall be converted into an obligation'; "Member States shall agree on implementation." Thus the statement of reasons. The EU is again imposing an obligation and is in the meantime providing for the necessary regulations that will have to be made mandatory, such as the disastrous Natura 2000 policy. In doing so, Brussels is moving towards more and more national policy areas, as well as towards a European spatial policy. After all, all these measures will have an impact on the spatial policies of the national Member States that Brussels is not and should not be about at all. While the public authorities are involved in such regulation, it transfers part of the implementation costs of these rules to the private sector. This proposal postpones the implementation of any monitoring measures from the competent authority to the initiator. It states that environmental impacts will also need to be monitored more frequently than at present. The government's rationale for this cost shift is on eurofelt grounds: other Member States will also opt for this cost shift towards the initiator and thus contribute to a level playing field within the EU. The entrepreneurs of this country are thus presented by this VVD Minister with the bill of EU regulation. The newspeak of the eurocratic policy agendas also sounds like a so-called "modern language" on page 3 of the explanatory statement: "plant and animal" has been replaced by "biodiversity." The new wording aims to "declare better in more modern language." The question is whether this is merely a semantic adaptation, or whether it also implies a link in substance with biodiversity policy objectives, to which there is a much broader framework than "plant and animal" implies. This may have the necessary consequences for potential justifications in appeal and appeal proceedings. I'd like a response. In addition, some provisions may provide for more apple-labeled options that could further prolong or delay appeal and appeal procedures. The provisions added in this proposal to improve the quality of a m.e.r. focus on the preparation by "competent experts," stating that there would be sufficient financial incentives for a good selection of an EIA consultant: "both the cost of the procedure in itself, including the hire of an advisor, as well as costs by being able to start and realise the project later on." It is precisely those costs that can be high for a initiator and for the competent authority if the level of expertise of an advisor is raised as an objection in appeal and appeal procedures. Or if an EIA committee is involved, whether mandatory or not, but objectionors can question the expertise of the EIA committee and thus, think of richly subsidised environmental organisations, gain a potentially powerful instrument in their role as a nuisance. This can be a risk factor, especially in organisations with long-term experts, as was also seen in the Urgenda case. The judiciary appears to be sensitive, even hypertensive. Does the Minister also see the risk of this potential objection? I'd like a response. Furthermore, the EIA Directive provides that an EIA is to be set up in an EIA. the "reasonable alternatives relevant to the activity' examined should be described. Only those alternatives which meet the objective of the project and whose environmental effects are essentially distinctive need to be examined. The question is how far this provision extends. We would like to hear a response from the Minister on the following points. If the initiative is a wind farm, can another form of energy generation be taken into account as a "reasonable alternative"? The objective of the project remains energy generation, so this does not necessarily have to be done through a wind farm. To what extent should an m.e.r. for the construction of a road, a route decision, are also examined first whether e-bikes or smart-mobility apps, for example, can be regarded as a "reasonable alternative"? Can it be made clear whether such false solutions can be disregarded? Then there is the possibility of threshold values, in particular the threshold for EIA wind farms. How durable is this one? After all, "significant negative environmental impacts" of wind farms for residents are evident, even below the threshold. Initiators can fill the maximum capacity to be set by 14,99 out of 15 MW, which is, however, mainly a drawing table value. There is also sometimes a cumulative effect of several wind farm initiatives, which are developed through salami tactics. Self-employed projects are not subject to EIA, but spread over a slightly larger area are several wind farms, creating the overall picture of one large wind farm, with all the nuisance and landscape pollution. In replying to the written questions of the PVV Group, the Minister on the monitoring of wind farms states: "The competent authority must take a decision on a case-by-case basis and will do so depending on the nature, location and extent of the activity and the nature and extent of the environmental impact." Does this not seriously undermine legal certainty and the necessary degree of arbitrariness, with possible changes in the monitoring of wind farms per municipality or even per project? I'd like a response. Can the Minister also indicate how the interests of residents of wind farms will be weighed in EIA assessments in relation to the stated importance of reducing CO emissions? Is the Minister prepared to make the interests of the living environment of residents always outweigh the supposed climate effects? I'd like a response. Mr President, the PVV Group will vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. A future-proof economy is clean and built on opportunities that offer sustainability. The D66 Group believes that only in such an economy in the Netherlands, but also in the rest of the world, growth can take place that is balanced and balanced with the world around us. Together, we can create opportunities for present and future generations for good education and care in a society where prosperity growth contributes to the well-being of our citizens. Of course, everyone agrees that any use of our space will have an impact on the environment, the environment and the climate. That is why we see a good understanding of the effects of certain public and private projects on our environment as an important condition for these longer-term opportunities and sustainable clean growth. Today's implementation review of the EIA Directive is on the agenda. The environment and climate are of course not only a responsibility of the Dutch government; they are a collective responsibility of governments, directors, citizens and companies worldwide. The D66 Group is therefore pleased that this implementation streamlines the EIA procedure with environmental assessments under other EU legislation. These regulations aim to better protect the environment, use resources more efficiently and promote sustainable growth throughout the European Union. According to the Minister, the main issue is the separation of powers in situations where the initiator of a project is also the competent authority. The bill was passed in the Lower House by a large majority, suggesting that the law has little or no hooks and eyes. That is not entirely right, which is why we are taking part in this debate now. Despite the Minister's comprehensive answer to our written questions, concerns about possible conflicts of interest remain with my group. Of course, we rely on the power of the local government. At the same time, however, the Minister has indicated that there should be an appropriate separation between conflicting positions in official preparation, but not how to do so. The Minister does not want to lay that down by law, but she says "only" to come up with a hand delivery or model regulation. Does this hand-out or model regulation, which is in the process of being made, provide sufficient guarantees? Can the Minister indicate when this hand-out can be expected? Our group also likes to hear in broad terms what this hand-out is going to look like. And does the Minister agree with my group that it is somewhat premature to deal with this bill in this house before this Chamber has been given the opportunity to take note of the kind of assistance she wishes? In my group's view, the assessment of the feasibility of this legislative proposal cannot be fully taken into account at the present time. However, that is important. What happens, for example, if a municipality wants to extend the local road network in order to increase access to an industrial or shopping area and give up part of the nature reserve? And suppose there's a negative m.e.r. Come on, and companies don't agree with this? Or a positive m.e.r. which is formulated in such a way that citizens or organisations need a "second opinion"? Those are complex dilemmas and it would be reasonable to call for independent advice on these issues, not only in the case of the EIA plan as it would be in this example, but also in the case of an EIA project, especially if there is much better understanding of the environmental impact of the project in question at the level of detail. The assessment of whether this is necessary must be made freely, precisely when the municipality is both competent authority and initiator. But is that freedom there? What if a municipality doesn't follow the model regulation or hand-out and mix up the obligations of initiator and those of competent authority, consciously or unconsciously? What happens then? And what scope does this new law then provide for citizens, organisations or companies to appeal to the municipality if it is decided not to seek independent advice? It sounds technical, but it is important to us that the environmental impact of projects is always properly assessed throughout this process and that negative effects are avoided where necessary. I'd like a response from the Minister. The D66 Group is also concerned about what the implementation of this EIA Directive means for citizens and businesses to have access to independent opinions of the Commission on environmental impact assessment (Commission for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection).). Yesterday, when the news came out that the International Association for Impact Assessment (IAIA) was the Commission for the M.E.R. The Institutional Award 2017 has been awarded for its decisive role in the development of high-quality environmental impact assessments in the Netherlands and beyond. If we have understood correctly, this independent advice must now be paid for by the administrative body even if this body is the initiator of a project. Perhaps this is still happening in the case of outstanding projects to increase the confidence of society, but my group wonders whether this is true for projects which are less obvious but which may have an impact on the environment, nature or resources in the short or longer term. The Minister chose a reassuring tone in her written replies saying that "the cost shift is less than it might seem." However, environmental organisations are concerned that this change will indeed affect the quality of decision-making and independence of environmental impact assessments. The Commission's opinion on the is optional where legal obligation may be more obvious. This advice can be quite costly and it becomes complicated if the administrative body is at the same time the initiator of a project. In that case, given the costs involved, the administrative organ will not always deliver an opinion from the Commission for the m.e.r. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) There is also a risk that the administrative board will use the services of consultancy firms with competitive prices. What does this mean for the independence of these opinions? In the long term, fewer opinions will be delivered by the Commission for the m.e.r. How does the Minister view this development? Does it share the view that quality of independent and expert advice should not depend on costs? Can the Minister shed light on the financial implications of applying for independent advice for promoters and the possible impact on the quality of the whole procedure? In the House of Representatives, the Minister undertook to make an assessment of the impact of the Commission's rates on SMEs. and early 2017 to produce the results. Is there any idea when that evaluation will appear? Finally, we also have a concern about the way in which decisions are monitored, as the competent authority can decide not to monitor or barely monitor. In other words, a monitoring obligation may be linked to the decision as a requirement, but that is not necessary. We understand that this has to do with the agreements in the Environment Act, but in the opinion of my group this cannot go unnoticed in the context of this legislative proposal. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. As far as my group is concerned, this legislative proposal is concerned, in addition to concerns about conflict of interest and the cost aspect, including the balance between the interests of certain public and private projects and the collective importance of sustainable growth, protection of the environment and natural resources. Of course, the Minister will say that it will all work out and that this bill will even contribute to a good balance, but I hope that the Minister will be able to address the concerns of my group in her reply. I look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. In the written examination of this legislative proposal, the Government has given detailed reasons for the need to ensure the implementation of this European directive by the competent authority with regard to the quality of environmental information on spatial and infrastructure plans and projects. Where the initiative for these projects lies with third parties, companies, civil society organisations and citizens, this is undisputed. Where the initiator is the same government as the competent authority, my group believes that there is a natural tension within this administrative body that combines the role of competent authority with that of initiator. This latter role will usually be motivated by a political administrative programme which pursues objectives on the basis of a consensus based on a political majority which aims to translate these objectives into results. The organisation of neutral critical questions and broad information within its own organisation will therefore not only be able to count on applause if there are doubts about the effects and scope of the planned implementing measures. That is why this European directive lays down minimum requirements for the internal administrative separation of roles which can ensure that, on the basis of the correct information, the administrative body motivates and legitimizes its choices. In addition, Article 3:4 of the General Administrative Law Act is important because it requires administrative bodies to carefully balance interests. Citizens may also ask the court to review procedures and, if necessary, suspend procedures if the relevant environmental information is not sufficiently available to take decisions so that they can be supplemented. In the written discussion, the PvdA Group also asked whether the government would no longer include guarantees in the legislative proposal in order to ensure a better quality of the current environmental impact reports, given that the figures of the national Commission for Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection have been taken into account. It appears that more than half of them do not score enough in the initial assessment. Considering everything, the government concludes in its reply that it has sufficient confidence in the competent authority, that it wants to rely on the responsibility of the local authorities and not impose additional obligations in addition to the minimum requirements of the EU Directive. However, we would like to point out that an administrative separation of roles within one administrative body with regard to the role of licence holder and the role of supervisor enforcement has been accepted and functioning in the Netherlands for many years. In itself, an administrative separation also comes into the portfolios with respect to the m.e.r. versus the role of initiator in various governments, including the Empire. That should not therefore be regarded as something that is unnecessary. Mr Vos has already pointed this out. I note that the Minister does not want to impose it and in her reply refers to the possibility for citizens to go to court if they are dissatisfied and do not find the environmental information sufficient. For us, it is a question of what perspective the citizen is looking at here. Does that only happen from a point of view of interest? Do we see citizens as actors who have to stand up for their own interests? And where is the system or system responsibility of the Empire, and what kind of support can a citizen expect in accessing and explaining the information that governments themselves produce? In other words, does the Minister's answer not offer too much protection to the public authorities? In many discussions on physical and spatial projects in this country, there is a need for neutral information, for a third-party review, for evaluation and review processes that can bridge views and contribute to support before going to court or should. The question is why the government in this dossier is so firmly committed to the responsibility of the competent authority and not more generously embracing the aforementioned need and offering a facility for that purpose............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Despite the commitment previously made in dealing with the Environment Act that there will be a participation hand-out and a great deal of experience is already being gained in the context of the forthcoming Environment Act with a dialogue and a broad participatory approach, the question remains why the Empire would not want to facilitate a professional information and review facility for the benefit of citizens' anti-information powers, which can build authority rather than allow each file to undergo its own information "enhancing phase'. Think of windmills, think of gas extraction, think of manure processors and so on. Perhaps we are too quick to judge now the consultations with the domes and the Commission for the m.e.r. Still running. We would like to hear from the Minister what position she wishes to take on these questions. And would she like to make it clear again what it expects from the publication of the official advice on the relevant environmental information that the official organisation must submit to its administration? I am referring here to the official information submitted to the Board by the competent authority in the context of the review of the initiative. Is this official opinion made public in its entirety prior to the final administrative decision-making of the College of Mayors and Aldermen or Deputy States, after which it is offered to the City and State Assembly? In the absence of a review, administrative decision-making will be taken by an independent third party such as the Commission for the m.e.r. with this also sufficiently transparent and follow-up? We have questions about this. For this reason, we would also like the promised draft guidance to be sent to this Chamber before it is finally adopted. We look forward with interest to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u7	Today we are discussing the revision of the EIA Directive. This point fits in well with the big debate we had last year on the Environment Act. In that law, the word "trust" played a leading role. Trust is also important in this review. A sponsor may be exempted from an EIA procedure by the competent authority on the basis of a description given by that party of the characteristics of the activity or measures to avoid or prevent significant adverse environmental effects. Intentions can be sufficient. Now I am strongly in favour of us being able and willing to trust each other, but in general this becomes more difficult when financial or economic interests start to play a role or when there is a conflict of interest. Can the Minister make it clear that the importance of nature and the environment is not less weighed than financial and economic importance? Can she explain how conflicting interests are being dealt with? And will she tell us how it is monitored that the good intentions of the initiator are actually being fulfilled? How does it safeguard the interests of nature and the environment? A point of interest is that the monitoring should be in order. The competent authority should indicate whether and what effects should be monitored and define the requirements to be met by the monitoring. But on what basis is that determined? Is that determined on the basis of scientific research? And why don't we make that monitoring a mandatory part of the entire journey? After all, it is a matter of environmental importance. National criteria based on scientific research, as Mr Vos van GroenLinks said in the written round, can be a good guide. I told you, trust is the key. If a government wants to carry out a project itself, there is no need for an independent assessment. If anyone objects to that project, it is only the way of appeal and objection that is open and can therefore no longer be leaned on the independent assessment. Those who believe that the government but does what suits it without taking into account others will feel strengthened in that opinion. That's not supposed to happen, is it? How does the Minister intend to remove this suspicion? The Minister also believes that the information to be provided on a project is being properly provided. However, in 2015 it was found that in two thirds of the cases the information provided showed essential shortcomings. That's what we've just been talking about. How does the Minister come to the assumption that information will be better quality in the near future? And if it does not expect that improvement, why is it proposed to relax the EIA obligation? In the Environmental Act, we also discussed in detail the risk of accumulation of effects. With the introduction of these directives, we do not have any national criteria, but that does not seem clear to the people involved. The danger of arbitrariness is then lurking. How do we prevent this accumulation? In the written round, the PvdA asked questions about consultancy firms that produce environmental impact assessments but are not certified. The Minister thinks it's bullshit to agree that we only go with certified agencies, but that's not really a weird question, is it? If promoters have to pay their own advisors, the choice for the cheapest has been made quickly. And we all know that cheap doesn't always produce the best results. The Minister's answer that agencies can voluntarily join a professional association sounds a little non-binding. In addition, it stated in its reply that membership of a professional association does not always have to improve quality. The Minister considers that mandatory certification may have the disadvantage of hindering new alternatives and that this could make the EIA system more expensive. It also indicates that the high percentage of environmental impact reports with key shortcomings is partly due to the quality of EIA advisors and advises against a voluntary certification system due to the simplification of regulation and the reduction of regulatory pressure. All this seems to bite with the statement that the importance of the environment is leading. Can the Minister go into this again? I would like to be assured that the consultants have the right qualities to take care of this. The environment must not be subordinate. That time has really been over since the Paris climate agreement. In conclusion, I would like to conclude that the procedures should not be made more difficult than is necessary. I understand that the Minister insists on the relief of burdens, but I have the feeling that we are putting too many rules that used to apply here overboard. I hope that the Minister will be able to make it clear that this proposal is of particular benefit to nature and the environment rather than becoming a child. As always, I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u8	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber very much for its input. Before going into specific questions, I would like to make a few general comments. This legislative proposal results from an amendment to the EU Environmental Impact Assessment Directive for projects. The regulation on environmental impact assessments is one of many things that are integrated into the new Environmental Act. I would have liked to have included these changes in the legislative process of the Environment Act, which will follow later, but unfortunately this amended directive is subject to a deadline. That's why it's being treated separately. Therefore, a separate legislative proposal is also needed to amend the Environmental Management Act and the Crisis and Recovery Act. I say this in connection with Mrs Vos' question as to whether it is not confusing that we are working on this in two places. However, I have used this law as a starting point to connect as closely as possible to the amended directive, so that we do not impose more than the EIA Directive at European level and to anticipate as much as possible the Environment Act. With this in mind, we hope to avoid the fact that, within a few years, the implementation practice will be faced with changing regulations twice in a row. So we have tried to anticipate that. I am still hearing concerns from the political groups on a number of points. They also asked me to take those concerns away. I'd like to do that. I note that the concerns relate in particular to a number of points. I would just like to point out in which blocks I would like to answer the questions asked. First of all, this is the separation of functions that will be adapted to the proposal. Then I will deal with the Commission's mandatory review of projects. The third is the quality of the m.e.r. and there is also certification and expertise. Point four is then the monitoring, the hand-out, the evaluation of the Crisis and Recovery Act. I also take the participation into account. Finally, there are a few other questions. Not everything that has been under discussion is changed by this law. However, I am happy to deal with this, because many questions have also been asked about points that have not even changed. I'll start with the separation of functions. There is, however, an amendment to that effect as a result of the European directive. Previously this was not a requirement, but as a result of the European directive, we have an obligation after implementation of the directive to properly separate tasks when the initiator is also competent authority. That is a different matter from the Commission's assessment of the situation. That's just a separation of functions within the house that's also competent authority. That appropriate separation of tasks shall take place throughout the official preparation of a project EIA decision. The Commission has said that you are going to do so, and you are going to state in your law that you are going to do so, but you are not going to give it to whom you are going to do so. You actually make it compulsory, but it is not. I do, indeed, because, in accordance with the Environment Act, which we anticipate, we always record that something has to be done, while there are still freedoms in it. The competent authority is free to give effect to that. As a result of the debate in the House of Representatives, but also in connection with a discussion I had with this Chamber on this type of subject, I have said: I want to set up an appropriate separation of functions. Because this concept is based on customization on a case-by-case basis, it is not possible to prescribe everything in advance. But you can do a hand-out with examples that could be followed well. We're in the process of drawing up that hand-out. That is where we also involve the Commission. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the first instance, we said that a separation of functions at employee level is the absolute minimum. But I recognize the disadvantage of that, because then you only have one leader in the organization who finally makes a decision. I am not saying that competent authority or initiator will always be right, but there is a risk that you would like to remove. With a view to legitimacy and acceptance, I will include in the hand-out that I advise the competent authority to seek the separation of functions at the level of two different managers. That could be department heads or maybe better executives. In certain cases, the competent authority may consider giving the municipal or provincial secretary a special responsibility as competent authority. Official tasks of the competent authority may also be outsourced to an environmental service. This, too, will be included in the hand-out, as indicated by the Commission. Why didn't the divorce go ahead to the administrative level? We have the starting point of not going beyond what is necessary under the relevant EU legislation when implementing EU legislation. We are just, as we always say, actually implementing the directives, and that is also the issue here. Moreover, an appropriate separation at administrative level is actually already laid down in our General Administrative Law Act. For that law already contains an obligation for administrative bodies to perform tasks without prejudice. I am referring to Article 2:4. If an interested party makes an appeal against a decision referring to that article, an administrative body runs the risk of destroying the decision by the judge. The competent authority therefore has an interest in ensuring that the decision-making process takes place carefully. In the legislative proposal I advise the competent authority, where necessary, if one so wishes or if one is prompted by council or Provincial States, to separate these functions at administrative level. Once again, I recommend it without an obligation, because I would go further than the European regulations require of us. At the same time, I indicate that this is more or less embedded in the Awb.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u10	The Minister says that the Awb is obliged to carry out the tasks unbiased. If that doesn't happen, someone can go to court. But the problem is, of course, that there is a threshold to take that step. In some cases it is difficult to prove, because you have to prove, as it were, that drivers have not acted unbiasedly. When there is a legal obligation, it is much clearer. After all, it can be seen from the directors' portfolios that there has been a separation between the one who stands for the initiative and the one who has to ensure that there is a proper check-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mrs Meijer said that the Environment Act is based on trust, which must be fulfilled. But you have to ask yourself how many layers you want to choke on, because you don't really have faith. Mrs Vos has asked whether a divorce at staff level is not too far-reaching. Actually, I agree with her. I believe that such a separation should also be introduced at the management level. You then have separate employees and separate managers. The Awb also says that there should be no bias. I would advise that, should it be important, a separation should also be made at administrative level. I do not think that we should impose this on the administrative level, because then you do assume a lot of wrong actions, while a municipality has an interest in being transparent and explaining what choices it makes and how it carries out business at the front and at the back of a project. I do not want to make it mandatory, because it goes beyond European legislation. European legislation requires it only at the administrative level and not at the administrative level. I would point out that it is included in the Awb as a culture, to which we must stick. I would also point out in the speech that it can best be desirable, so that they should at least pay attention to it. I think it's sufficiently secure with that. I should like to come to another point on which many questions were raised, namely the Commission's compulsory monitoring of projects. We arranged this in 2014 through the Modernisation Mer Act. The planning procedure includes a mandatory review, while the project procedures are no longer mandatory. Why? Because you'll be doing that EIA review on main lines much earlier in the process, so you'll be able to set up your project proposal much better afterwards. Furthermore, all parties are free to carry out a project EIA. But this is not being amended as a result of this directive. So this is not really the issue at the moment; this has to do with an earlier adoption of the above-mentioned law. The proposal therefore does not alter the current policy of the Environmental Management Act with regard to the Commission's review. That review is mandatory in the extended procedure and is optional in the limited procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u12	In my opinion, the combination of the Environmental Law and this bill does indeed oblige the Commission to carry out an independent review of complex projects. No longer prescribed. This is left to the competent authority. A change is therefore taking place compared to the previous 2014 amendment. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u13	In 2014 it is indicated that we do have a m.e.r. at the level of the plan-MER. make mandatory, and no longer at project level. This is laid down in the Modernisation Act. In all cases, EIA testing will become optional under the Environmental Act Introduction Act. The competent authority must then decide whether a second opinion is necessary. As has already been said, this is not done by means of this directive, but by means of the forthcoming introduction of the Environment Act. I hope I say it that well. If not, I'll come back to it in second term. The opinion on a limited procedure was abolished in 2012 when the EIA was modernised. In the Commission's view, too. In these projects itself, this advice is of low added value. That is why it is not necessary to give this advice now for these projects. But if you look at the example of the giga-goat stables, whose license was destroyed by the Council of State, I think that shows that we have good correction options in the Netherlands. In the extreme case, if the environmental information is not of sufficient quality, the judge will destroy the decision. Such statements will stimulate the initiator and the competent authority to make a good m.e.r. This is why we are calling on the Commission and the Council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the decision is based on this. This decision shall be subject to appeal and appeal. That's what I'm talking about with that correction. Mrs Vos van GroenLinks said: projects will often receive the Commission's opinion. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances. She asked why I didn't make that mandatory. I told you, it doesn't play until the Environment Act. The Commission's expertise is well known. The competent authority will assess on a case-by-case basis whether an added value is necessary for the opinion. The Commission's appreciation in particular It is also apparent from previous research. "You say that," said Mrs Vos, "but is it true that there is often no advice, for example on the Crisis and Recovery Act?" That is not true, but it requires some explanation. From the possibility not to advise the Commission in particular only projects listed in Annex 2 and in the case of local and above-regional projects designated by AMvB with a national significance can be used. That was 14 at the start of the Crisis and Recovery Act. In these cases, therefore, the possibility to deviate could be used; fourteen road projects in Annex 2. There was already an EIA procedure for some of them. For roads, only five projects have been added to Annex 2 of the Crisis and Recovery Act over the last six years. There is no EIA obligation here once, but once the Commission is aware of this. However, once the committee is involved in the first phase of the project, once the committee is not involved and one project is the m.e.r. Not ready yet. For each road project added to the annex to the Crisis and Recovery Act, a conscious choice of whether or not to ask the Commission should be made during the preparation process. Why is the review of all m.e.r.Mr President, I should like to say a few words about the Commission's proposal. Mrs Vos asked that it should not be made compulsory as an independent guarantee that environmental information is correct and complete. Again, this bill does not change the current line of the Environmental Management Act in relation to the Commission's review. Review is mandatory in the extended procedure and optional in the limited procedure. The competent authority itself is responsible for the quality of its decision-making, including the quality of the documents underlying the decision-making process. I shall go into more detail on the next point. The competent authority itself is also charged with it in the courts, so good work will have to be done. Under the Environmental Act, a review of the EIA project has been carried out by the Commission. optional in all cases. This has been discussed extensively in the examination of the environmental law bill. That's actually the discussion we just had. This comes back to the introduction law. The competent authority must and can consider whether such a second opinion is necessary or desirable. I am confident that this balance can be made. The Crisis and Recovery Act no longer requires an EIA opinion, but the conversion of a mandatory to optional advice in the EIA procedure can only be used for Annex 2 of the Crisis and Recovery Act and for the local and above-regional projects designated by AMvB. They are also always discussed in the Second and probably also in the First Chamber. This lighter procedure therefore does not apply to EIA procedures in development areas and to sustainable innovative experiments and project implementation decisions. The main reason for including a project in Annex 2 of the Crisis and Recovery Act is an administrative acceleration that can be achieved. A lighter EIA procedure hardly ever plays a role in this. It is much more often about administrative acceleration. The last evaluation shows that the competent authority deliberately makes a choice whether or not the Commission should be involved. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances. Mr Verheijen said: if the competent authority is also the initiator of the project, will the official opinion be made public in its entirety, prior to the decision-making process of the Executive Board, the Municipal Council and the Assembly of States, so that decisions are taken more transparently? The EIA Directive does not require publication of official advice. Only an appropriate separation in the official organisation is requested. Actually, this is still part of the previous point. The EIA Directive therefore only concerns the procedure, not the content. The administrative advice is also not an opinion of an advisor as referred to in the General Administrative Law Act. It is therefore not made public separately. The administrative body shall weigh the environmental information in the draft decision and shall give reasons for the decision. The administrative body is also advised by the administration, but is ultimately responsible for taking the decision. The draft decision and the EIA shall be made available for inspection. Following the public consultation reactions and, where appropriate, the Commission's review opinion, i.e. Finally, the final decision will be adopted. That decision shall be published. It is a bit like our decision-making: it does not exist until it has been approved by the administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u14	I am puzzled by the question of what the relationship is with the Public Access Administration Act. Suppose I appeal to that, do I get the official advice? It is indeed a step in the decision-making process. It shall also be a self-employed official who shall be accountable to his or her management. The question is therefore whether, in the context of transparency and follow-up, it is not appropriate to attach value to the provision of services to third parties that can be included in the hand-out service if requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u15	I don't know all the rules of the Public Access Board Act. I think it's in revision right now, too. That will pass the House of Commons. What I know from my own experience with WOB requests is that it is ultimately the advice that is sent to the Minister or the Secretary of State. It is therefore a question of perfecting opinions, not of discussing them and of the opinions expressed by officials. It may well be that an official advice is WOB-able. Then why don't I make it automatically available? I really wonder what the added value of this is if the driver himself has to make the environmental information and the reasons for the decision understandable. It is then whether you want to check whether there is a difference between the administrative advice and the administrative advice. Maybe I should look into what you're trying to do with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u16	At its core, it concerns the environmental information prepared in the EIA report for the governance and the completeness and adequacy of the environmental information relevant to the project. Then it is important for externals to be able to form an opinion on the basis of which the board draws a conclusion on how the project decision or plan should proceed. The administrative balance is therefore a chapter, a chapter, separate from the provision of the desired full environmental information. Therefore, separation within the apparatus could best apply, with the possibility of making the opinion public. We have not yet completed the new Open Government Act here in the First Chamber, but certainly in the bill discussed and approved in the Lower House, there is an extension of the information that governments should provide. Perhaps you could come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u17	I will. I do not think there should be any objection to making the underlying information that has been used to reach a decision. I am always careful when it comes to making public official advice, because as a driver you always want to be protective and ultimately take responsibility for yourself instead of the people who work for you. I'll find out what the relationship is with the WOB requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u18	I have a supplementary question on this aspect of separation of functions when the government is initiator and at the same time competent authority. My question relates more specifically to the situation in which the government is co-initiator, because there may also be private-public cooperation or contractual obligations that a government deals with in a particular construction. This applies, for example, to the situation where the local government is the initiator of a wind farm and in this context enters into a contractual obligation with a private party. In such situations it is quite common that a government is very reluctant to provide certain information. It is then very difficult for third parties to get that kind of thing on the table and get an insight into such separations. How will this work out, in the view of the Minister, in the practice of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u19	At the moment, this separation of functions is not necessary. The directive requires this at the moment when a government is the initiator. If I understand Mr Van Hattem correctly, he asks what happens if the government is not the initiator but has interests in a project. It seems to me that the government would be wise to give good and transparent form to this separation of functions. For all things, there will eventually be participation on the front, as well as participation on the back, as well as the way things have been shaped, how things have been handled and how information has been provided. On the front, there is the possibility of participation and there is the council that oversees the functioning of mayor and aldermen, and on the back there is always the judge if B and W and the council would have been guilty of hand-knocking and ignored the citizen. Our democracy has many mechanisms that ensure that the processes and procedures are carried out properly and that this is done transparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u20	This is the theory, but in practice it is difficult to get a lot of things done as a citizen at an early stage. This is certainly the case for projects such as wind farms where from above an objective is also imposed by the national government which is being translated into the provinces, and the municipalities are actually a bit back against the wall. If the municipalities continue such projects and make agreements with private parties, they are, as it were, in a trap, because the project must continue and there is no going back. That is an obstacle and it must be recognised as a risk. It does not have to be directly related to this proposal, but it is part of the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u21	I recognise Mr Van Hattem's concerns about a number of major energy projects that have recently taken place in which a state coordination scheme ensured that there was not much to say at local level. The essence of the Environment Act is precisely that we lay down decision-making and powers at local and regional level, where people live and work. The decision-making process is based on a number of points, which concern our national interests. These national interests have now been laid down in the SVIR (Structural Vision for Infrastructure and Space) and will soon be included in the national environmental vision. Those are interests that we as the Empire want to have the final say on, because if you don't take care of it and leave it to the regional level, it will never happen. Wind energy over a certain amount of megawatts will also be part of this, 380 kV installations that no one in his village wants, but also the defence of our country against floods, so the coastline, the dunes, the roads, the railroad. There are always times when it can be said on a rich level that something cannot or cannot be done. However, the procedure of the Environmental Act will be much more open and require much more participation and involvement at the front. I hope that this will provide more support for things that are sometimes bothersome and annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u22	I come now to the following section, the quality of the m.e.r., the certification, expertise and questions like: is everything sufficient, what about the shortcomings found in EIA reports and does this mean that things are not going well at all. It has already been pointed out that the Commission for the has received a prize; she does it very well. The reports drawn up by municipalities and submitted to the Commission for the m.e.r. are critically assessed. They're looking at what is and what isn't okay. The shortcomings are often unclear about the information required. The judgment that something is not good enough is not always a result of the fact that it has not been done well. The Commission for the m.e.r. is watching to determine whether it is clear what information is needed. In addition, she asks additional questions and she can advise: if you were to present this and that now, it would become much stronger. The committee is, of course, also in favour of achieving this improvement. Sometimes parties also need to make good agreements on information that is really needed. I am confident that streamlining procedures will also reduce the number of shortcomings. It then asked what is meant by "competent experts" and what is meant by the term "sufficient expertise." Mrs Teunissen asked the same question. In the Netherlands, more than 30 years of experience has been gained in the preparation of environmental impact assessments. We are often asked to do so internationally. Our engineering agencies are those private parties that offer this and they are really very expert. Of course, such a report depends on the type of project and the expertise of, for example, consultancy firms can be assessed on the basis of the quality of previous environmental impact assessments. What will also help in the future is that we will work under the Environment Act on a central point where all information is made available. This information is then longer usable, more accessible and public to all kinds of parties. This will also play a positive role. The gaps found often relate to the provision of information and the question of whether the right approach is envisaged. Someone's gonna take the m.e.r. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection for the work he has done on this subject. can see if it's good enough. The Commission's independent review of the M.e.r. is therefore possible and remains possible. This is also happening in complex projects. Unwilling mayor and aldermen still have a city council that can demand that. There are also citizens who can ask for participation in draft plans. As I said before, the law therefore does not change the existing legislation in this respect. The question how to improve the quality of the m.e.r. can deposit, has been answered with this. It does not change and the Environment Act will soon pay more attention to more participation in advance. I assume that participation will also help to improve quality. An important question, which both Mrs Vos and Mrs Meijer asked, is whether there are sufficient checks-and-balances to ensure that environmental interests are taken into account by public authorities when deciding on authorisation. Sometimes it's just who you talk to. Mr Van Hattem felt that the environmental interest was being taken too much into account and Mrs Vos felt that it was not being taken into account. The main checks-and-balances are that the competent authority is responsible for and can be taken into account for the quality of decision-making. This also applies to the quality of the documents underlying the decision-making process. The competent authority will be taken into account by the court, but I trust that it will be filled in responsibly. The General Administrative Law requires this. It is therefore appropriate for a competent authority to decide whether and when it wants a second opinion, for example on the quality of the m.e.r. The law also allows the competent authority, by decision, to take all the measures necessary to protect the environment. The EIA procedure also provides for the revision of the EIA. This means that the competent authority must answer directly to the public about the quality of the m.e.r. and the question of what it has done with the environmental information. This means that there are many safeguards for the environment and for this to be properly designed. I'll be back for the monitoring later, because then you can look after it. The spokesperson of the PVV says that the image of alternatives to the environment only ends. He says: what do you really mean by these'reasonable alternatives', because you can put a lot of things into it, but that will not work out positively. In the m.e.r. For the construction of a road you need to examine reasonable alternatives. These are alternatives to be applied. So these are not theoretical alternatives or false solutions, but really alternatives to be applied. So there's a limit in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u23	There may be a limitation, but where is the limit of that limitation? I hear more and more governments saying that if, for example, a road has to be built, that can also be solved with smart mobility apps. But with an app or an e-bike no heavy transport can take place. You really need roads for that. Is the reasonable alternative always the alternative of another route, or should there really be such a broad view that such alternatives should also be seen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u24	As a minister, I'm looking so wide. If I note that there is a capacity problem, I will go round the table with the region and say: let's see where the problem comes from very precisely. Is that only soluble with asphalt? Or do we find that the specific problem only arises at a specific time at a specific bridge, because all companies want to have their employees on the ground at the same time, and can we perhaps also come up with a different type of solution? We use the Better Benutten programme for different regions to identify the ways in which we can find a solution to the same problem. Now it is not possible to solve everything by saying that everyone has to come to work at another time or that people have to go by train or by bike, because that is not how it works. We will not be obliged to do so. So you'll always have en-and-solutions. Sometimes they will also be in the field of ICT. The current way of working with the second programme Better Benutten is that we also look at different types of alternatives than just asphalt. For the future, this will also simply become a permanent part of our assessment framework at the MIRT.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u25	At what stage will you ultimately assess that before it is really investigated in an EIA procedure? If you put all the policy options on the table in advance and say that you choose an asphalt solution, should it be investigated? Or should a comprehensive study be carried out for the EIA procedure in such a way that all options and all possible technical solutions are developed? If they are not worked out, is there any objection? I read this morning, for example, that in Belgium a similar EIA procedure destroyed the entire Oosterweel connection, because a solution direction that had actually been ricocheted off four years ago should have been investigated at that time. Since we are talking about European regulation, I can see such developments happening in the Netherlands as well if everything needs to be stretched as widely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u26	On the contrary, we have streamlined our procedures much better in recent years. First of all, we have set up the Elverding Committee for the Tracé Procedure, which has set out very clearly what we all need to do in the front, so that we are much less confronted with objections at the back and should do our homework again. That's what we're now including in the Environment Act. We'll streamline that even further. There are very specific requirements for a start-up decision. It states what should be mapped out as an alternative. Specific requirements shall be laid down for the draft decision. You need to show me what you've been investigating and how you've done it. We have made agreements with the House of Representatives on participation and on the progress of citizens' initiatives. In the final route decision, you have to be able to see what the procedure has been and what everyone has brought in. I was actually talking about the step before that. Before you reach a decision at all, look with the region what is wise. Thinking only of solutions in terms of capacity expansion is sometimes not the solution, because a problem has very different causes. But only thinking about different behavior, shifting working hours or whatever, of course, is not the solution either. So it will always be a combination of those three.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u27	Mr. Van Hattem. Finally, I'd like to say a few words. You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u28	So the way in which the EIA procedure is resolved is only done after the stage in which all policy developments have been examined and a policy direction has been chosen? So that's what the EIA procedure's gonna focus on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u29	And then you look at, for example, the most environmentally friendly alternative. So we look wider at several times, and then narrower and then wider, just to make sure that we have all the alternatives well in mind and don't have too much of a tunnel vision. Just to stick to the roads! In doing so, I have also answered the questions on quality and I would like to move on to the questions on monitoring and participation. Then I will answer a few other questions. It is of course also important that this monitoring is done properly, because you can talk to each other at the front, you can make good arrangements about the organisation of procedures and processes, but you also want to be able to see at the back or what you have intended with each other in advance. The legislation states that monitoring should be carried out, but does not specify how monitoring should be carried out. Why is this not fully prescribed at a rich level? This is because monitoring can involve a wide range of environmental impacts. Whether and, if so, what monitoring is useful depends very much on the nature, size and location of the project. There are also different methods to monitor certain effects. I saw two of them this morning. First of all, this is the integrated PAS monitoring report, which deals very closely with nitrogen, how emissions should be measured and how they should be distributed. The other method is IPPC monitoring. This concerns very specifically the production of glass and the deviation from emission values. Depending on the subject, there are simply differences and there are also different methods to monitor certain effects. In addition, new methods of monitoring certain effects will undoubtedly be developed in the future. So to develop quality standards for everything in advance at a state level, in a state law, is actually impossible for that reason. And you are also very quickly behind the facts when you develop new, better methods. So the question is, how could you do that as well as possible? That is by really implementing the monitoring at that local level. For example, for an infrastructure project, you need to monitor the numbers of trucks and cars, the degree of pollution from cars, the speed and distance from road to construction. For business sites, you need other data. This concerns questions such as: what technology is being used, what other industry is there nearby, what kind of companies are they, what substances are being used, what risks are involved? For agricultural expansion, you will need quite different data to achieve good monitoring. I refer to the number of animals, the number of hectares, the other farms in the neighbourhood, the type of farm and the facilities to absorb effects, such as air scrubbers. Keep up the good work! It is therefore not possible to define it in one standard but via customization per project by the competent authority concerned. Mrs Teunissen asked whether the expected positive effects on the environment of this certification system have been examined. The Environment Act contains a mandatory opinion for most of the Commission's projects for the m.e.r. The certification system adds little to that. It does mean more procedures, more costs and a certified agency. It doesn't have to be a better m.e.r. either. The Commission's proposal is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. A certification system has not been further investigated for these reasons either. That was actually Mrs Teunissen's question. I have already mentioned the procedures for the Environment Act, i.e. the revision of the EIA Directive. Mrs Vos said that in monitoring, if it is not done properly by the municipality, you as a citizen can always object afterwards. She thinks that this is a bit of the reverse, because then, as a citizen, you have to keep an active eye on it. I understand the question and think it makes sense, but a citizen can also always present an opinion on the draft decision and on all EIA projects. Furthermore, in complex projects there is always the possibility of covering the content of a m.e.r. submit an opinion. The City Council or the Deputy States also have an important role to play, so this can be done at a decentralised level and is not just with the citizen. It is not the case that citizens only have that one instrument at their disposal afterwards. He also has a lot of instruments at his disposal in front. Often someone who is really involved and thinks it should be different, will also become active on the front side through the views. How is participation organised? For the EIA procedure, the extended procedure shall include the scope and level of detail for inspection. This also offers the possibility to have input on the content of an m.e.r. The competent authority is obliged to respond to this. In addition, occupation is possible by residents. A few questions are mixed up, I apologize for that. When is the hand-out for the separation of functions expected and is it sent to the Chamber? The handout will be ready on the intended date of implementation of this law. So that's 16 May 2017. I would like to say to you that, after consulting IPO, VNG and the Commission, I agree with you. will be sent to the Chamber before final adoption of the hand-out. Mr Van Hattem has asked whether I am prepared to make the concerns of residents outweigh CO. Objections from residents are always taken through the law, through participation, through appeal and objection. However, CO is also taken into account. Leading in this are cabinet objectives. In this case, they do not yet exist, but if national CO standards are created in the future, they will also play a role in decision-making. So you have national interests versus the interests of the neighbors. It is up to the authority to come to a proper balance with customisation, but there are sufficient moments when that individual can actually live up to his rights. I had already answered questions about an appropriate divorce. Mrs Stienen asked what would happen if the obligations of initiator and competent authority were to be mixed up despite the hand-out. What can citizens and businesses do if independent advice is not sought? The competent authority and the initiator will, of course, have to comply with the obligations of the legislative proposal. This means a separation between competent authority and initiator, if the competent authority is also the initiator. The decision-making process is primarily the responsibility of the competent authority and that will also determine whether an opinion of the Commission in particular. is desired. It will also have to defend that decision in court. Mrs Stienen also asked how the outcome of an M.E.R. is being dealt with. Is there a second opinion for businesses and citizens? The competent authority must assess the quality of a mer for completeness and accuracy, including research into reasonable alternatives, which Mr Van Hattem also asked for. The competent authority must take into account the environmental information in the decision on the project. The draft decision and the m.e.r. must be made available for inspection. The competent authority must sometimes "can"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... questions and businesses and citizens cannot apply for a second opinion from the Commission m.e.r. However, they can go to the competent authority. I think it is well established at a decentralised level. Mr Verheijen has asked why the Empire does not want to facilitate a professional information and review facility for the benefit of citizens' anti-information powers. Like this Chamber and like the House of Representatives, I consider participation to be very important throughout the decision-making process. I remember well the discussion on the Environment Act, in which much attention has been drawn to this by the First Chamber. In the context of the implementation of the Environmental Act, therefore, there is also an opportunity to participate in the process. This happens in an interactive process with many parties, such as the domes, the Commission m.e.r., the Association Eigen Huis, Stichting Natuur en Milieu. On the initiative of the inter-administrative programme Getting started with the Environmental Act is also very well practiced, for example with practical meetings, pilots. The pilots offer expertise and also the Commission. held a workshop on participation and environmental impact assessment last year. That is also what factsheets are made and distributed. The result of all this experience is also reflected in the manual participation, which keeps it up-to-date. As far as the opening up of environmental information is concerned, I refer to the development of the digital information houses we are working on. We do this together with RIVM and with many other organisations. With the PvdA, I think it is very important that you have good, professional information and review facilities to properly organise citizens' information counterpower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you to the Minister for the explanation on this point. I have a question in connection with the answers she gave to Mrs Stienen's question. We have seen in the discussion on the Environment Act that many of these information houses are built and managed by the governments. Now, in her reply to Mrs Stienen, the Minister made it clear that there are a number of points in which access to information is also ensured. So, actually, we're talking about two hand-outs. We are talking about the hand-out within this EIA directive and implementation and we are talking about a hand-out for the participatory approach within the Environmental Act. Here's what I'm looking for. If the Minister chooses to keep the EIA liability limited and not to broaden or expand, shouldn't there be a connecting facility that can be shape-free and slightly lighter, but means a neutral position for citizens if they want to identify or access the information they can get from the government? Then it is not enough to refer to the Lane of the Environment and to the information houses that will all be built digitally in that context. This will require a neutral position that citizens can appeal to. The Minister would then have to lay the first building block on the basis of her system of responsibility. In my view, this is part of the whole approach to participation within the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mr Verheijen asks a few questions. There are indeed two hand-outs. One is the hand-in-hand participation, to which I, as well as the First and Second Chambers, attach a great deal of importance. You can't document how to do that. That's the same argument. You say it has to be done, but not yet. However, you can present examples and update and renew the hand-out. The other thing we are talking about here is the Commission. and how you can shape the monitoring or other things. Mr Verheijen asked whether you should not arrange access to information in a professional or independent institution. Frankly, I see information houses as independent institutions. Although they are designed by Rijk, provinces, municipalities and water boards together, we will still have to evaluate and test the information. Furthermore, it will be necessary to indicate when the information is valid and how public it is. I couldn't imagine who else could play that role, because you always have to get the information delivered through the aforementioned parties. I recommend that Mr Verheijen make proposals to make the information houses more independent in his eyes, otherwise you will be given an additional institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u32	There's a big administrative paradigm here. It goes without saying that citizens can trust the government when it comes to the information that the government generates, because often the government itself is the producer of that information. Where can citizens go for an independent test? You often need a scientific authority to do that. A natural authority has been working for several years throughout the nature dossier, which has been able to provide information to governments and citizens about the prevention of all kinds of animals that could cause problems for all kinds of construction projects. However, this was an interesting point of support and information, which as such has worked well. At the Laan van de Levenenvironment, the problem remains that this is a construction of the governments. The advantage of the independent Commission m.e.r. is that it is an independent foundation, founded by the government with a particular assignment, but contained in procedures that you say you do not want to make 100% mandatory. I'm looking for a light facility that helps citizens check the information they get from governments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u33	I'm sure I'd like to think about that. I also think that this is much more about the Environment Act and the digitisation of the counters. In any case, I want all my information validated by parties like RIVM and so on. I'd appreciate it if the government would continue to be seen as independent. Whatever you do, every time there's a new call for independence. But we're often not seen like this, which makes it very difficult. Mr Verheijen asks me to look at whether there is a hole there. I'd be happy to admit that I will. We should talk about that, though I don't know how much longer I'm gonna play this role. I will end with a few open questions, starting with a question on the evaluation of the Tariff Act. It will be implemented this spring so that the results of the year 2016 can still be taken into account. The Commission...................................................................................................... will be involved. Moreover, I have heard it said that it was not so bad, as it was assumed that as a result of cost security, projects would be carried out much less. I can't back that up right now. Mr Van Hattem asked me whether there was still some sort of secret expansion in the replacement of plant and animal in biodiversity. In my opinion, there is simply a semantic adjustment. In my reply so far, I have indicated that this is a modernisation. After all, this legislative proposal concerns only a translation of the revised EU directive. Mr Van Hattem also asked whether the Commission had given an opinion on the matter. can be seen as an obstacle force. Just as we as governments have to work without bias, the Commission is also more important. bound to give advice without prejudice. This also follows from article 2:4 of the Awb. That article applies to competent authorities and to the Commission in particular. An opinion of the Commission may, in particular, contribute to sound decision-making for complex projects. That was and is the basis for legislation in the area of m.e.r.Let's see. It can't be said: I don't like it, we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u34	Mr Van Hattem, please be brief and concrete, given the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u35	This wasn't the port of my question. Could the Commission's level of expertise include: or from an advisory firm are provided by third parties as an objection and can be used as an obstacle, if you are talking about environmental organisations or other objectors who have the Commission's expertise in particular. Doubt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u36	If someone is against something, the expertise of other parties is almost always questioned. This is often part of the process, which we try to remove with openness. But it's still an issue. So you can never say if others are going to bring that in. After all, you cannot say in advance: this is always good. Even if you certify it, you can't say that in advance, because even someone who is certified can make a mess of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u37	That risk therefore exists and is therefore recognised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-eerstekamer-3.u38	Yes. But that goes for all of us. Also in my contributions and in yours it can just sneak in. Mrs Meijer asked if I could make it clear that nature and the environment are not weighed any less than financial and economic interests. I had actually already answered that: the instrument of the m.e.r. is really meant to weigh environmental information against other interests in decision-making. The competent authority is obliged, on the basis of the Awb, to achieve a balanced balance of interests without prejudice. The m.e.r. includes the relevant information for nature and the environment when it comes to projects. That must be taken into account as a competent authority in the decision-making process, and you cannot put that aside. The law provides opportunities to prescribe all measures deemed necessary for the protection of nature and the environment. I have not answered another question, namely Mr Verheij's first question. I will come back to that in second term.
