ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and the spokesmen. First of all, the applicant for this debate, Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u2	Mr. Chairman. As a family and family party you often hear us speak positively about the power of families and family businesses. But today, unfortunately, you will hear a very different sound from us. There are also criminal families very active in organised crime. EMMA partner Hans Moors and Toine Spapens have written a disguising book about this. The proverb 'the apple does not fall far from the tree' applies to this. The authors explain very well what is going on in crime, how people from generation to generation are criminal and how they manage to keep the government at bay, or how they manage to get away with it, and how they do not shy away from intimidation. The surroundings will keep their mouths shut. The scientist in me could talk for hours about this book, which describes the development of crime in Brabant and seven families play the leading role. However, we do not have the time, so we have the question of how we turn the tide. The Minister states in his letter that he thinks that what is needed is described in the mandate of the Task Force Brabant. He rightly praises the integrated approach in Brabant, with his bundling of forces, because only the use of criminal law does not help. But without wanting to do anything about it, I'm afraid we won't be there with that. The researchers indicate that the objectives of integrated approaches are often mixed up. That complaint is recognizable. Because do we want to resocialize those key figures or do we want to pull them out? Do we ever want to see them again? Who really wants what and are the noses really going the same way? Not to mention the obstacles in this integrated approach. I am thinking in particular of the privacy barriers that have come to light in Tilburg. We've talked about this before. Is there enough clarity as to what the bottlenecks are? And more importantly, are there solutions ahead? The local authorities have been pounding at the gates of Security and Justice for four years to get an answer to this, but it just doesn't get there. It is very interesting that the authors write that a focus should be placed. They call for greater attention to be paid to those who manage to get out of crime. That is a very big task. To stay in the terms of the researchers: it is about neutralizing the family structures and criminal subcultures. After all, they make crime an ever-increasing phenomenon. Apart from paying attention to the bad guys, extra attention should be paid to the families and not to mention the neighborhood. They often keep their mouths shut, because they actually consider criminals more than the government as friends. It has become a kind of collective lack of sense of standard. But what exactly works and what doesn't, we don't really know. We're running a little from one neighborhood improvement to another neighborhood improvement. I am thinking here of the example recently given by the Public Prosecutor's Office: let that neighborhood benefit more from the approach, for example by making expropriated buildings available to the neighborhood. We have said positive things about this. But, of course, we have to look at whether that works properly or whether it works counterproductively. The Minister writes quite clearly that establishing these partnerships in the social domain requires an approach that starts small, which stimulates initiatives from the local level. However, it sounds a bit noncommittal. Could the Minister be more specific about this? The CDA has a suggestion. It is inspired by the approach to domestic violence and the systematic approach to offenders. Should we stop thinking about a systematic family approach? I hear a lot of critics thinking: what now? That's what we thought when dealing with domestic violence, that's what we thought at the isd, but now it turns out to be working. The researchers also argue that the government has the problem that civil servants simply cannot think like criminals. That seems to be an advantage, but in this case it is a disadvantage. How does the Minister feel about that? What solutions does he see? Customization, strategic planning and a long life: that is what the researchers particularly insist on. That's the least it takes. The Minister says something about this in his letter, but we, as CDA, would like to know what the real commitment is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u3	Mrs Van Toorenburg talks about a systematic family approach. I am interested in exactly what that means. The report is about seven Brabant crime families. Actually, that's almost normal. It's bad that I use that word... a form of organized gangs. In this context, does Mrs Van Toorenburg propose that the government should adopt the same approach as organised gangs? So, repressive, locked up, pulling out of society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u4	Let us be honest: these researchers, who are really not the least, indicate that this tough approach must be taken. But they're also right to say that we're wrong if we think we're there with that. So you're gonna have to do it much more integrally. Part of it happens, but the researchers indicate that sometimes we don't know what works. When you think about what we've done with domestic violence, you see that we're tough on the one who's causing it, but soft, constructive and moving on to everyone who's left behind. Maybe that's one way you could look at it. We'll do other things now. The Public Prosecutor's Office pleads and eventually gives the judge permission to expropriate property. We'll give it back to the neighborhood. That's a good idea. But at the end of the day, we don't know if that really works. So let us follow better what works and continue to think creatively about the question: where were we also in total impotence and have we managed to make the difference through a systematic approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u5	There must be no misunderstanding: the reason I am asking this question is because I want to think along with Mrs Van Toorenburg. But I'd have to have a start. How does Mrs Van Toorenburg in her presentation to the Chamber make concrete what should be understood by the systematic family approach? I think that's a little vague now. Mrs Van Toorenburg says: yes, in the past we have also taken very serious and far-reaching measures. Okay, I get that. But what does it mean by the proposal that it lays down?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u6	The researchers indicate that we often focus on those who were wrong. We pull them out and then they're out of the picture for six or seven years. Eventually, we'll see it goes on. A number of people are very vulnerable. We do not even know exactly whether this is due to the level of education, to the pressure from the environment, to the wrong friends or partners every time or to a totally abandoned mother who is left behind. When we looked at this, we saw the idea of domestic violence and the approach of systematic perpetrators. You need to focus not only on the one who is wrong, but much more focused on who is left behind and wonder what these people need not follow the example. I say this very broadly, because I can go here from a bench and shout out what I think should happen, but I think only from the youth. I am less aware of how women and the rest of the network are doing. Let's take a serious look at that. Nor have the least of them done so in the approach to domestic violence and isd. First they started with the SOV and then they developed this: what works and what doesn't work? That's what was done to actually get a finger behind it. This has been going on since the nineteenth century and even before. Maybe we can make a difference sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u7	The mayors in Brabant warn that the underworld will rise. They also make a number of suggestions: legislation, legal bottlenecks, increasing the possibility of taking money and also public investment. They call themselves 150 million as some kind of battlehouse. What does the CDA think of these proposals, in particular the last one, namely that much more investment is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u8	In fact, there are two subjects that are mixed up in this debate: this investigation report on the criminal families in Brabant and the whole process related to the Task Force Brabant. We have declared this last subject controversial with each other. Mr Van Raak knows that very well. Fortunately, we can talk about it a little, because we want to see certain solutions. If Mr Van Raak has heard me correctly for the past four years, he knows exactly what the CDA's commitment to the approach to undermining and the Task Force Brabant is. We do indeed want much more investment to be made. We want much more room for the mayors. We want to see more police capacity put on it. There is also a need to strengthen detectives and remove the privacy barriers. Anything the Brabant mayors ask for could be our commitment, but let it not be what we are discussing in the Chamber today. However, it would be so nice if Mr Van Raak could get his group to take care of it at another table. In my view, we have an opening which we may be able to take advantage of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u9	I am sure Mr Van Raak would like to say something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u10	Yeah, because that's gonna be a weird debate. We are talking about criminal networks in Brabant and Mrs Van Toorenburg says that we can talk about criminals, but not about dealing with criminals. Then I'm afraid this is going to be a bit of a debate for the stage. Are we going to have a debate in which we take each other seriously, in which we take the problems in Brabant seriously, and then we are going to send the Minister out with a mandate and funding, or are we just having this debate for the newspaper?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u11	If Mr Van Raak had really read the report completely, he would not ask this question. This shows that it is not just a task force approach. Of course we must continue to do so, and there is additional money available for that, but we are far from there. It is precisely stated that you have to look at it in a different way and that the government often makes the mistake that it only gives repressive blows. As far as I'm concerned, they can be merciless and even harder. We are also having that debate. But now it is important that it is not only resolved when we look at crime prevention and crime prevention. We need to do it wider. I would like to make a suggestion today on behalf of the CDA Group. I wonder whether the Minister will see anything in that or whether he will at least see if it is viable. We are not alone here with the task force, however much we want to go further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u12	Mr Van Raak, last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u13	I think it's remarkable. Of course we are not alone with a task force and not just with money and people. That's the beginning. We are about to discuss the culture that this crime and networks generate, but if we decide in this debate that we are not going to talk about a first or a final step, if we do not talk about people and resources for mayors and money to tackle crime, then this is going to be a very weird and limp debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u14	The one who does not participate at all in the attempt to solve this problem with a task force is the SP. In the end, he keeps doing nothing but yelling here in the Chamber that the rest of us have to fix it. If the hand is extended to the SP to really do something about this, it does not give at home. We are investing in the task force and the Minister is working out the motions that we have tabled together with the VVD but also with other parties to improve that. That package is therefore being implemented. Now there is a report stating that this is not the only thing that needs to be done. I pick up the glove, but then the SP says that's not enough. No, the SP doesn't give at home. That's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u15	Thank you for your input. We are now going to listen to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u16	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about criminal family networks in North Brabant, but as far as my group is concerned, of course, it is also about organised crime. It is indeed about that report, Mrs Van Toorenburg said that as well, but also about the book We arrange it ourselves by journalist Bram Endedijk. Of course, it's very bad that families want to take care of it themselves. That is why this debate is right. My group understands that proof of this crime is difficult when no one speaks. That is why it is important that private parties and citizens cooperate, as the researchers also point out, but also the task force Brabant Zeeland, which has often been mentioned. The task force has taken good steps in this direction. That's why I'm quoting this. Fortunately, the Minister confirms in the follow-up plan with the title Slagvolgende approach undermining in the South of the Netherlands that the approach is being continued and even intensified and widened. However, that is not what we are here for. Punishment may not help to prevent the transfer of crime from generation to generation, but it does have a disruptive effect. Of course, the condition is that the punishment is long enough in relation to the proceeds of the criminal behavior and the chance of getting caught, because calculating behavior is not strange to them either: a low chance of getting caught and a measure of punishment that is a big profit. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that the penalties imposed are higher? Then we'll have to settle that through the law, and then we'll always have our stick horse, which is what you do with the minimum punishments. I'd like a response from the Minister. In addition, it would be nice if criminally obtained money could be taken earlier. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether that possibility exists? I am thinking here of the administrative variant of taking away. In a letter submitted in the Volkskrant of 11 September 2015, the regional mayors and the Public Prosecutor asked the Minister and his colleague of Finance to make EUR 50 million available to this effect nationwide. This budget will enable local and regional projects to be financed from the participating parties providing for a strengthening of the approach. In the same letter, it was proposed to use part of the criminal capacity taken away for that reinforced joint approach to undermining crime. That's the so-called battlehouse of 150 million. I know that the Minister has spoken about this on many occasions, and that is the subject of further investigation, but my group is very much in favour of this undermining fund, which is why I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Maybe there's already a state of play. The Minister can also take privacy legislation into account when tackling undermining crime in the so-called one-government approach, as the exchange of information between organisations runs counter to strict privacy legislation. In the Volkskrant, the Minister also indicated, following Question Time last week, that he is preparing legislation on this issue. That was last week. It would be nice if he could tell us what's going on. Lack of money and capacity in the police are also major problems in this area. There's a big gap between what the police can do and what they want to do. Detectives would be so good to not only tackle the suckers but also the leaders. Then you roll up the network, too. The Minister has a missionary status, so I understand that he can't make any money available for that, but there has to be an opportunity to find a solution in consultation with the chief of police or with the team chiefs of units in the south of the country. Finally, it is, of course, disastrous that some criminals avoid their punishment due to lack of capacity in courts in the south. Sometimes it takes so long for cases to be dealt with that the judges have to take it into account. That goes against the fist we're trying to make. The Chief Officer Zeeland/West-Brabant even points out that criminals know that they don't go to jail for years in hemp cases and that soft drug trade is just paying off. What's the Minister gonna do to stop this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u17	Thank you. Mr Van Raak has the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u18	Brabant's fine. For several years, the police, the judiciary, the tax administration and the municipalities have been working intensively together to tackle the underworld, organised crime. But things are also bad with Brabant, because these crooks feel oppressed, cornered and they seem to be getting more aggressive. We have seen examples of the mayor of Gilze-Rijen, who was threatened, and the prosecution did not. The Minister was happy to say so. We also see examples outside Brabant, for example in Emmen where an alderman was so threatened that he had to flee to England. We can see that the underworld is becoming increasingly powerful and that it is particularly affecting officials in charge of tackling these criminal networks. A few beautiful books have been published and good articles that try to give us more insight into the culture surrounding those criminal networks. For example, an official, who does not want to be mentioned in particular, says that photos of him have gone around and that drug boys have information that can only have been leaked. It's about a car that was set on fire by a colleague of his and his house that is heavily secured. In the meantime, this official no longer works at the municipality. You can see that these threats are deeply affecting the lives of those civil servants, their families, their village and their neighborhood. I ask the Minister: is Brabant so much different from all the other provinces now? Are the networks so much bigger there? Does it have to do with the synthetic drugs, with Brabant as a pill shed in the world? Does it have anything to do with the culture surrounding those criminal networks? In the NRC, we've seen how these networks work, how the underworld rises. Accountants make criminal activities seem white. Car rental companies accept heavy cash, without asking questions. In addition, family members, women or daughters perform hand-and-span services and deliver packages. There are also criminals who can use an invalid card. In Question Time, we have just talked about schools where young people are threatened by criminals. Sometimes young people with big pockets of money wander around to recruit even younger children, who are sometimes just out of primary school, as a drug mule. The Minister said that this is mainly the responsibility of the parents, but I wonder if parents can take that responsibility. I see that there is good cooperation between the police, the judiciary, the tax authorities and the municipalities at the moment, but what about schools? What about social work? What about youth work, neighborhood agents and housing corporations? How can we ensure that young people who are now threatened with derailment are straightened out? How can we ensure that one person is responsible for problems, rather than pointing all kinds of organisations at each other? How do we ensure that one person is responsible, for example when a kid with a big piece of paper money is recruiting other kids in the schoolyard? In an interrupting debate with Mrs Van Toorenburg, I said that the mayors in Brabant have also made a number of proposals. They have asked questions about legal bottlenecks that they see in their work. There are bottlenecks in taking money from criminals. The mayors also say outright that there must be money. They're talking about a battlehouse worth 150 million a year for a nationwide approach. The cabinet is a missionary, but I would point out to the Chamber that it is not. The fact that we are debating undermining crime in Brabant today means that this issue is topical and urgent. This needs to be addressed now. That is why we have this debate. That is why I ask the Minister, but above all the Chamber, to do the following. If we consider this an urgent problem, we must send the Minister today with a message and with sufficient resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u19	Mr. Chairman. Organised crime in Brabant has been getting the news a lot lately. It concerns pot growing, waste dumping, the production of drugs, motorcycle gangs and threats from local politicians and drivers. Sometimes it seems like all crime is concentrated in the south of our country. The study on criminal families in Brabant helps us to better understand the backgrounds of organized crime in Brabant. The study shows, not surprisingly, that the border position is important, but also that criminals are flexible. When large-scale smuggling of salt and butter was no longer lucrative, criminals shifted their activities to ramcracking, alcoholic distilleries and the production of amphetamine. When the cultivation of weed started to get steamed up, Brabant criminals stepped into it very quickly. Finally, poverty and poor living conditions also cause criminal behaviour, which is passed on from generation to generation. Organised crime in Brabant is a complex problem. Only with criminal law can the Brabant problems not be dealt with. We're gonna have to take other roads. I am not just talking about regulating weed cultivation, about taking out part of their lucrative trade these criminal networks, but also about an integrated approach. Police, administration, Tax and Public Prosecutor's Office have already joined forces to turn the tide in Brabant with full enforcement. It's about preventing criminals from getting grounded in the upper world, opening up businesses, laundering their criminal money, and young people from a criminal career. But although police and prosecutors cannot do it alone, criminal law continues to play an important role. The question then is whether the criminal sword is sharp enough. That's how the Breda court was the emergency clock the other day. The court can't handle the cases anymore. As a result, criminal proceedings are dragging on, suspects are coming out of remand and punishments are lower. I would therefore like to know from the Minister how he responds to that distress call and whether he has any solutions to deal with that acute problem. I'm here to talk about stealing criminal assets, a crucial tool to cross the motive behind crime, hinder your criminal investment, and show you that crime doesn't pay off. But here too, there is still a world to be won. Although more and more money is being taken away, it remains only part of the total criminal money. The Court recently pointed out that the police have difficulty in attracting and retaining sufficient financial specialists. My question to the Minister is therefore how he looks at the results in the area of taking away and how we are going to ensure that financial and economic investigations can control these criminals. Finally. Integral enforcement is necessary but not enough for a truly sustainable solution. The first step is to see the problem as a social, economic and legal problem and not just as an enforcement issue. In some neighbourhoods, the government is seen as an opponent. These communities are self-sufficient and take care of their own business. It's a parallel society. By dealing only with the rotten apples, this breeding ground does not change. This requires a social change. For too long, The Hague has looked away from the problem at Brabant. I am glad that the debate is taking place now, but I also see the long way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u20	It just came along in a nutshell that if you start regulating pot growing, you take away some of the income and that even if the Valhalla doesn't break out yet, it will all be a lot better. That is, by the way, a mantra that we have heard before from the D66 Group. Around the initiative law of the D66 Group on the regulation of pot growing, we received a letter from the Public Prosecutor in which it indicated that regulation would not have any influence. We know that a large proportion of pot growing is intended for export. Then where does that sacred faith come from? If you're gonna regulate, all these criminal networks are gonna collapse like a pudding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u21	I do not think that all these criminal networks will then collapse like a pudding and that it will break out of Valhalla. We do think it will have limited effect. You are right to say that a large proportion of pot growing goes abroad and is therefore intended for export. However, for another part this does not apply. That's delivered to that famous back door of the coffeeshops. Unfortunately, we have to note that this has largely come into the hands of the organised networks. So if you solve that part, you'll at least contribute a pebble. We have recently received a note on cannabis policy, in which these scenarios have been worked out. It also shows that there will be a limited effect. You will not hear me say that this effect will bring the Valhalla.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u22	At least that's a nuance. The Public Prosecutor's Office then wrote a letter stating that regulation will not contribute to reducing crime. So it's not helping. You can have all kinds of reasons why you'd want to, but not those. Then you cannot make that argument now, in the sense of: if we are going to regulate then it will be a little less?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u23	The interesting thing is that this scenario study, which the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police have also participated in, comes to another conclusion; it says that it is likely that no one will be able to see in the future, not you and I will not have a limited positive effect on crime, i.e. to a limited extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u24	I would remind you once again of the letter from the Public Prosecutor to the D66 Group Initiative Act, which said that we should not do this. That was a clear signal and, as far as I am concerned, there is no argument for entering this debate now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u25	Mr. Chairman. Seven families rule their neighborhood like some sort of untouchable one. They are families who, with expensive cars, radiate a passionate mentality in a popular neighborhood and radiate a culture of 'gosh, they don't catch me'. They are families who feel that something is wrong, that there is wrong money here, that crime comes to the surface here. They are families who have in fact been transformed into "small" organized criminal gangs, who need to be dealt with hard. It is simply unacceptable for these families to take on a position from generation to generation from which they are placed outside our society, in which they state that they have no respect for our police, to ignore the teacher, who teaches their own children and who wants to bring their own children further into life, to ignore the mayor and... I think that is the worst thing about the normal Dutchman, who does every day do his best to earn his income together in a decent, normal way. It is crucial that hard action is taken against these families, because what you read in the report is deep and deeply sad. I therefore believe it is of the utmost importance that our mayors, so to speak, seek the pain limit of what is possible to combat this type of figure: act, show who is in charge in this country. Our mayors and aldermen, leaders at the forefront of the fight against crime on a daily basis, must feel protected against this kind of family by politics in The Hague. They must be able to trust that they will not get kicked if a mayor is tried by a judge. They must also be able to rely on the fact that, if powers to act were lacking, we would restore them in Parliament and, if necessary, we would supplement them. These powers could, for example, relate to my first question to the Minister for the closure of campsites where criminal acts happen time and time again. Are there enough opportunities for mayors to act? If not, Minister, please tell me what still needs to be possible. Could the Wet Bibob still be meaningful? The Wet Bibob is now used if you apply for a grant or want a permit from the municipality. Should there be more flexibility in this? Is the national register, in which all municipalities have insight to see which wrong figures are registered, sufficiently used? Can the Minister tell us a few things about that? The only motive for criminals is to make money, and I want them to take it away, if possible in front of everyone. Take that fancy car of that criminal in broad daylight. Introduce a form of naming-and-shaming to take this kind of unofficial mayors' status. Structure the bullying approach that has taken place in Brabant. I have seen examples where families are deliberately chased that go wrong over and over and put their status in the neighborhood as it were. Structure that approach. Mayors speak of a battlehouse of 150 million. Mr Van Raak has already mentioned this. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he recognizes this amount. Is this the amount that would be necessary to offer solutions? I would like to say a few words about the information sharing and then I will conclude. When have we finally arranged in our country for public administrations and other key parties to be able, for example, to share information about wrong figures in the best sense? It can't be that privacy rules protect criminals, can it? Is the Tax Office free to share information with, for example, the police for tackling money laundering? When can we look forward to the promised steps in this respect? I'm rounding up. We need to break these complete, criminal family networks. These kinds of figures are nothing more than ordinary criminals who do not deserve any preferential position in our society and who must be bullied away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u26	Thank you. Your speech has raised a number of questions, starting with Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u27	I did expect the VVD to just hammer on the approach part. That's how we know the VVD a little bit. But let this now be about one of the first studies that shows very clearly that it has to be about more. It must not just be about that tough approach, but also about a constructive approach to remove that vulnerability. It is precisely in those neighbourhoods that vulnerability needs to be addressed. How's the VVD looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u28	I think I'm very clear. So when it comes to the vulnerability in the neighborhood, it's the unofficial mayor who's wrongly funding an expensive car. This happens in a popular area, where all the other residents are at work every day at eight o'clock in the morning and have to work very hard to get around at the end of the month. So that's a wrong example. The VVD wants that example to be addressed, and that the bastard with the wrong mentality, with the wrong mentality, understands that this is not accepted in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u29	So it becomes a bit of a hollow rhetoric. I can't help it. Yeah, everybody thinks so. I don't think anyone in this room is saying, "Let's let those guys who use criminal money to buy big cars get away with it." No one's saying that! Let the strength of this research be that it should be about more! So can the VVD stop playing just that same CD and can it also provide an answer on the other side? What are we going to do on the other side? I hear the VVD say something about privacy. She's right to do that. I have said a few things about this in my speech. But what is the other answer, which the researchers also ask for, from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u30	That is why I would also point out that privacy and information sharing need to be improved. I do not think it can be explained anymore that knowledge about, for example, error and criminal money that is present at, for example, the Tax Office, is not present at the police, or vice versa. We need to improve that. If that is not yet settled, I would urge the Minister to do so and await it. Then it is also crucial that people are addressed to what is normal in this country. It is not normal in this country to accept that children are recruited in schoolyards to trade drugs or perhaps even go into prostitution. Then it is perfectly normal in this country that the Security Houses, which we have deployed and on which we have also discussed oral questions, will and will continue to work, exactly as we have intended. Then it's normal for the probation to be deployed, for juvenile services to be deployed, for the police to be deployed and for the prosecution to be deployed. I wouldn't have it any other way! And that is also an answer, Mrs Van Toorenburg. Not all new things, we also need to focus on what we have and make sure that we are going through with full energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u31	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u32	I was a little worried. It was always that rhetoric of "harder, harder, harder" but we read that it has only gotten worse in recent years. So only that approach led by the VVD didn't work. I'm glad the VVD now indicates that you should also look at youth care and probation to rip those villains off their thrones. I totally agree with that. But besides that, something has to be put in place, so that people understand what you have to do and how you can see the government as a partner again, and not those bad guys.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u33	I note that Mr Groothuizen is abandoning his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u34	Mr. Chairman. How nice of you to chair! We have greatly underestimated the size. "Pas in Tilburg I saw how big the problem is," says Peter Noordanus, Mayor of Tilburg and Chairman of the Brabant Zeeland Task Force. That alarm clock also sounds in a recent study by the Police and Science Foundation. It sketches a shattering picture of Sicilian conditions in the Meierij. Crime is of unprecedented proportions and a truly parallel society has arisen. The result is greater than the criminal acts alone. In whole social networks, a growing number of people dispute that what is wrong according to the law is really wrong. The role and power of the government are seriously undermined. We can't let that happen. Quite a few steps have already been taken to act hard. We now have more knowledge, additional money has been made available and the various public authorities work better together. The recognition of the problem and these first steps are good. But there's more to it. And it will have to be long-term, precisely because the inward-oriented culture in many Brabant villages, where government is distrusted, where exclusion and isolation are experienced and where a shadow economy has emerged, is firmly rooted in a long history. I'd like to hear from the Minister how he's really going to anchor an effective long-term approach. I am also curious whether this subculture also exists on the other side of the border, precisely because it is so rooted in this whole region, and how Belgium might have dealt with the problem. Then there are the measures. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that the approach is a combination of repression and prevention. I find the idea of a family approach that she has launched very interesting. I would also like to talk about the proposals of the task force, because if we are not going to do it because of all kinds of internal parliamentary rules on controversial matters, the mayors who are affected by this really do not understand what we are discussing here. GroenLinks strongly supports the picking of criminals. As far as we are concerned, funds can be frozen just before action is taken against someone. Otherwise, there is a high risk of money being drawn away. If the money is frozen, it will have to be brought before the courts as soon as possible. Then it can be checked whether a freezing is justified or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u35	There is a question for you from Mr Van Oosten of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u36	In this context, does Mrs Buitenweg agree with me that you should sometimes have the courage to take a critical look at which government organisation should be on the line to catch the criminal? Is that the D.A.'s office, with sometimes seven years of procedures before someone gets behind bars and the money gets taken away? Whether or not this is where my question is that the Tax Administration, which may or may not, by means of reversal of the burden of proof, be able to make a claim on the money and perhaps even impose a fine on it, and for that criminal to take away the motive that makes him a criminal, namely the making of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u37	I should see a whole proposal to put it together as a whole, but I am prepared to look at some unorthodox measures as well. Indeed, I think it is very important to take away the incentive to make money. In the European Parliament, I have always been in favour of freezing funds. After that, it is always necessary to check whether it is justified. But I'm only in favour of looking in all kinds of ways at how to make sure that unjustly obtained money can also be caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u38	Thank you for that answer. I think that Mrs Buitenweg and I should discuss this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u39	You'll pay for the coffee, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u40	Mrs Buitenweg continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u41	If the judge finds that someone is indeed criminal, the task force, as well as a number of parties here as I have understood, wants the money to be put into a special fund, some kind of undermining fund. This can then be used for the further fight against crime. That's not what GroenLinks is for. We do, however, want to see a substantial increase in the resources available to combat organised crime. We want to invest more in the police force and we want to invest more in cooperation with the Tax Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office, but we are not in favour of police action determining their future capacity. The allocation of resources is a role for this Parliament. Moreover, I understand the proposal, because at the moment only about 18% of the amounts demanded by the Public Prosecutor are actually in the treasury. How is that possible? This raises the question of whether a little more effort would be made to trace the money and collect it from the people, if the people who have to do so could then spend the money themselves. I do have that question for the Minister. How does he look at the reasoning that there might then be a bit more tendency to actually get that money? One final point concerns the undermining law. It should solve a number of legal bottlenecks that crime fighters encounter in practice, such as privacy rules. Can the Minister give us some examples of such bottlenecks? As GroenLinks, we have an open attitude to the question of whether such an undermining law is useful. In line with human rights, we can do a great deal, because not tackling undermining is certainly a form of human rights violations, namely of the vast majority of the population of Brabant and the rest of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u42	There is a question for you from Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u43	GroenLinks can look at this withdrawal in principle and the question whether it makes sense to give it to the decentralised government, but could GroenLinks also think along in a somewhat pragmatic way? Suppose the municipalities would want to do much more and not look at the Empire all the time, but invest extra because they see that it is necessary there. Would it not then be conceivable that the municipality or the province would receive some money in order to take an extra step quickly and decisively?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u44	We are always prepared to think very constructively. So if Mrs Van Toorenburg has a particular proposal, I would be happy to look at it. But we do have a certain budget right here in Parliament. Nor am I in favour of always giving the infrastructure the money that is collected with penalties for motorists all the time. How much money we want to invest in the police and tackling organised crime is a question that is on the table here. That should not depend on the amount of money the police or local authorities collect. Imagine if they made very little money. Then there would be only a very small capacity. It's important to keep these things apart. I have therefore just asked the Minister whether it is true that there really is little incentive, little incentive, from the fact that people who now have to pick that money cannot ultimately use it themselves. I asked the Minister: would it indeed lead to more picking of criminals if the people who are supposed to do so could use that money? I think that is also a bit of Mrs Van Toorenburg's line. I'd be happy to take a look at that. In principle, however, I do believe that the allocation of resources is a matter for Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u45	I don't think the drivers in Brabant need a different motivation. They already have that motivation, because they see that their society is suffering from it. It's not about an incentive. They only see that they can't, because they have too few resources. They are now asking us to give them some space. On the contrary, they are very constructive and say: make it a fund; empty the criminals and add the fund to the battlehouse, so that we can take that extra step where necessary. Then they don't have to look at social services one time and then again at the Tax Office, but it's just decentralised. It is then a kind of positive bribe, with which one can take that extra step. Would GroenLinks like to look at it the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u46	GroenLinks has always been very much in favour of investing more in tackling crime. So I am not against such a fund that can be drawn from it. I'm willing to invest heavily in that. I am concerned that there is a proposal to fill that greenhouse with funds that have been picked elsewhere. I don't think you should always link that to each other. I am in favour of such a fund and therefore there is enough room locally to deal with it in the way that local drivers seem best. But I am not in favour of depending on the size of that fund on how much has been picked, because I think that might not give you the resources you need. It is also possible that you will be given too much resources, depending on how we judge it at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u47	Finally, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u48	As far as I am concerned, the profit of this debate is in any case that GroenLinks is also expressing an explicit opinion on that fund. We just agree on that. The mayors and the provincial leaders have done a hand-off to The Hague. I think they didn't just do that to keep their hand up, but they also tried to take cover. The only cover they could think of was to fill the fund with criminal money, so they don't have to ask for extra money from The Hague. If I listen to GroenLinks now, we agree on the fund. We just need to figure out how to fill that fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u49	Yes. GroenLinks has always been in favour of investing heavily in targeting crime. That goes through the police, but it can also be done through such a fund. So that's the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u50	Mr. Chairman. It's nice when people can take care of themselves and take responsibility for their own existence. The irony is that criminal families are very capable of that. They take good care of each other, they take good care of themselves, and they help each other. They don't really need police, IRS or social services. In fact, often the so-called wind-eaters are not even known to the authorities. We find them in all kinds of circles, from former caravan dwellers or current trailer dwellers to Turkish families. We find them in the Vogeltjesbuurt in Tilburg but also next to the hockey club in Breda. On the one hand there are the girls with hockey sticks and on the other hand there are criminal families who live together and who are all in the top ten when it comes to the Brabant crime figures. It is something that has existed for years and days and cannot be ignored at the same time. On the one hand, we simply cannot accept this and on the other hand, the underworld is becoming more and more upperworld, up to and including the schoolyards. We had a heated debate on this this afternoon. It therefore calls for a very targeted approach. A number of colleagues have already asked a number of relevant questions about this. I will try to avoid repetition, but of course I have a number of questions for the Minister. In the book and by the researchers in particular, there is a call for alliances around these families. These include compulsory education officials, the Tax Office, social detectives, municipality, police, housing corporations, the Public Prosecutor's Office and who knows who else has a certain involvement in these specific families. They shouldn't let them walk. A short blow must be struck by the person or authority who can do it best at that time. These are solid social coalitions. To what extent does the Minister consider that we have now sufficiently rigged this up? Then it's all about kicking ass. We know that there are always a lot of instances around an individual at work, but then a lot of people look away or aren't taken care of when they want to. I did not understand Mrs Van Toorenburg at first, but I think she means that, for example, the safety houses often look very closely at the individual and that a little less attention is paid to the network surrounding it. In what way is this being properly designed or in what way can we better shape it? A number of questions have already been asked about money and capacity. I would like to take part in the debate on good proposals on this subject. At the same time, I'm not naive. I understand that, as long as we don't have a new cabinet, it's very difficult to make extra money for that. A number of questions have also been asked about privacy legislation. The Minister has indicated that he will send a letter before the summer to indicate how he looks at privacy and how it can be implemented. I hope that there will be a concrete commitment to the question of what gaps in the field of privacy can be resolved in the legislation. The Breda court has now set up an undermining chamber. Can the state attorney provide enough in terms of capacity? Given the time, the last question I have concerns the safety of our drivers. They have an important role to play in terms of the perseverance and perseverance of these criminal families in cases of undermining. Last week oral questions were asked here about the deputy mayor from Emmen and now I get the message that an alderman from the North Netherlands has been asked by the prosecutor to temporarily go to Germany. My request to the Minister is that we should prevent this at all times, because if this becomes a pattern, the criminals win, the drivers are the victims and we are not in the enforcement and the mode we want. I would like a commitment on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u51	Mr. Chairman. Families, families are important places, institutions, where values and standards are also transferred. That's good news when it comes to good values and standards, when you're learning self-control, service, sticking to the rules, keeping you away from drugs and avoiding drugs. But it's bad news when you're part of a family relationship where you learn instead of self-control that you don't have that baseball bat for nothing when others bother you, that service is a concept for weaklings and that drugs are beautiful. That is exactly what this study reveals, and that is interesting: in Brabant you can speak about criminal families, where the breeding ground for a new generation of criminal entrepreneurs is firmly present. The researchers rightly say and the government also stresses that in our criminal law the individual is ultimately addressed. It is also right to address people on their personal responsibility. You can never, with a reference to the family from which you come, undermine your personal responsibility. A weak side of that focus on the individual can be that, just when you're trying to get people on the right track and if you're trying to stop letting the family be a place where criminal activities are being taught, you don't have enough eyes for the family. There must be an eye and attention to the family and to the social environment. Mrs Van Toorenburg was right to ask, and the researchers also say that they would find it worthwhile to see how much more you can appeal to the family networks. I mean not only criminal law, but also preventively. On page 166 of the study it is recommended to look at measures that have been tried out earlier and also in other countries. I support Mrs Van Toorenburg's request to the Minister to take up that glove. I ask the Minister whether he can not do anything more than what has been said so far in the documents. The present study focuses mainly on the family and the social environment. The study also shows that it is incredibly important to keep the cooperation in order between the local and national partners involved. Fortunately, this is to a large extent happening in the task force undermining crime. In recent times, we have seen that, if you focus only on Brabant, there is a great danger that criminal practices will suddenly get more out of the ground in Zeeland via the waterbed effect. In addition to the approach aimed at Brabant, it is also important to keep Zeeland in focus. I ask the Minister whether there is a strong eye for this. Secondly, I also noticed that the well-functioning national police, which we want so badly, can only work if they can also use local knowledge and involvement. Here comes the local district agent again, also in cooperation with the Detectives, who also have capacity shortages. There must be a transfer of the knowledge that district agents have to national police. Finally. Fortunately, there has been the necessary commitment in the field of the taking away of criminal assets. Isn't there even more power here, given the capabilities that these criminal families can build? Has the intended reinforcement of the taking away of criminal property really succeeded? Is this now coordinated and well-coordinated by all the parties involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u52	Mr. Chairman. Crime as a family business. The report Criminal families in North Brabant are shockingly showing how entire families are caught up in an evil that is transmitted from generation to generation. In the Netherlands, we are gradually over the innocence of organized crime, you might think: motorcycle gangs, families, criminal connections, interconnectedness of upper and underworld and threatened mayors. Again and again new alarm bells are going off about the state of play in the fight against organised crime in our country. This weekend there was a big piece in the Volkskrant by Mr Tops and Mr Tromp. We have just heard the oral questions and the answers to them. Criminal gangs are active in schools. They recruit young people as drug smugglers or prostitutes. Mayors get reports of young people dealing in heavy weapons. On paper, police, youth care, municipality and OM keep each other informed, but in practice no one feels that they own the problem, according to a cop. School directors can thus designate ten families in which things go wrong, says a mayor, but action is not taken. I am very concerned that our young people are being recruited for crime in places that should be perfectly safe: school and family. I find it worrying that the government is struggling to find a coherent approach to these problems. We do not have a national view of this problem. We don't do enough research. Schools don't know and the police don't know. My question to the Minister is simple. What can schools and mayors do about this problem? Minister, do you have more to offer them than what you said this afternoon, namely, report them? Wouldn't it be good to sit down with the VO-Council and talk about this? I am referring to the importance of making a report and, above all, to making a quick report, so that the police and the Public Prosecutor can take action on this. How is it that cops, schools and mayors feel like there's no problem owner? We have discussed it, but I still have a question for the Minister on this point. What about child care, about which these kinds of stories also go around? It's not just wrong in schoolyards. The conclusion of the report on criminal families shows the same picture. This also shows that criminal families have been able to look forward to the attention of all kinds of public authorities for years and yet they have never really been addressed. At least not in such a way that a next generation in such a family can really grow up free of crime and that there will be a break in that family tradition. I do not think it is right for the Minister to make a reference to what is already happening in Brabant. The approach with the task force is good and it also supports the group of the Christian Union, but there really needs to be a shovel on top. This is clear from the report, from the article in de Volkskrant, from the reports about motorcycle gangs, from what mayors are experiencing and from the shocking report that we read about a driver who had to go into hiding. We know from the Court's report on the annual accounts that there are ICT and capacity problems in the police, such as the digital detectives who have to look at revenge porn and drug deals through chats and games. Also in general terms, according to our sources, there is still too little capacity to prosecute in Brabant. How is that possible after all the debates we have had, all the money that has been added? I hope the Minister can say more about that. This afternoon he said that he hopes that those who sit around the negotiating table will provide extra money. I get that. The extra money that's needed can't just fit in here. However, we can make it clear what extra is needed. Would the Minister like to say more about that? I have already said it this afternoon, and I repeat it now: this is a battle that we must not lose. We can only win this battle if the apparatus of the rule of law is smarter and better organised than that of criminals. That is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u53	This brings us to the end of the first term of the Chamber. The Minister has requested a suspension of 15 minutes to prepare his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u54	Mr. Chairman. I, too, have read the book on criminal families in Brabant with interest and care, as did the MPs who spoke today. My interest was mainly in history. It is described that since the Eighty Years' War there have been gangs moving around and that there has been butter smuggling. There are therefore a number of reasons why there are more long-term and deeply rooted criminal family associations there. But that's where my interest ended and the concern began, which shows that there has been a more large-scale organisation of crime, with hardening and persistent attempts to influence and infiltrate the upper world. That is why local leaders have expressed their concerns, that the Chamber is today expressing its concerns and that the Cabinet has already taken a number of measures. On top of that, I will take a number of additional measures as far as I am concerned at the moment as the outgoing minister. I will answer the questions of the Chamber together in a number of themes. First of all, I will address the questions that have been asked about the broader approach of families, so broader than the purely criminal approach. Then there are the issues of information sharing and privacy. Next, I will deal with the question of the taking away of criminal property. Then there are the questions that have been asked about capacity and a battlehouse. Finally, questions on other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u55	Thank you very much. I propose to the Chamber that any questions be asked at the end of each block. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u56	I'll start with the questions that have been asked about a family approach. Mrs Van Toorenburg was the first to respond. It indicated that a purely repressive criminal law approach is probably not enough. What's going on out there? Can we learn from the approach of systematic offenders? I think that Mrs Van Toorenburg and others rightly point out that criminal law alone is not enough and that it is therefore worth looking at what is going on but also what is not working. Unfortunately, it is not the case that every time any government announces a project, it has the success we would like. Related to this: I was responsible for the neighbourhood approach in my previous ministry. It should also cover the prevention of crime. I've sent the Chamber a report on that a number of times, mostly drafted by the SCP. Unfortunately, those reports did not give an image: gosh, how successful this was. There has been a tremendous amount of work, but the efforts at the national level, I do not want to detract from the efforts and also the successes that have been made locally to structurally improve the neighbourhoods in many places in the country, were not as successful as hoped when the policy was implemented. I am referring here to the investigations. We want to achieve effects, of course. Then we must also make choices about the use of scarce resources. Mrs Van Toorenburg compared the approach with the systematic offenders. I did some digging during the suspension where it could be parallel. That is a rather harsh criminal approach, with the possibility of putting people away for a long time. That's where I don't see the parallel immediately. A parallel, which I do find interesting, concerns the experience gained in Amsterdam with the Top 600 approach. Perpetrators, but also brothers and sisters, so the family connection, are on the skin but are also offered other perspectives in life. Fortunately, the first figures indicate that this is a way of reducing crime and recidivism in part of the group. These are typical experiences that can be very well shared in the Regional Information and Expertise Centres. Nationally, we support this through the National Information and Expertise Centre. So on that line, I can fly on this. Mrs Kuik asked whether there was sufficient consideration of family within the Security Houses and not just of the person in question. The answer to that is yes. Of course, the Safety Houses know local differences, but the idea behind the fact that there are several parties there is precisely that you can also tackle more comprehensive problems, including family problems. Mr Van Oosten asked whether we could make the bullying approach, I assume, structural to the harassment of the criminal. I was just referring to the lessons from Amsterdam that we can spread well. I do see some points of departure in that regard. I now come to the questions on information sharing. I have already indicated in Question Time this afternoon that I would like to come back to the Chamber in the near future with an overview of the bottlenecks that I have found in consultation with the mayors and the additional measures that I propose to the Chamber. At the end of June, I first have a meeting with the mayors to see if what we found fits with their own experiences. Then, before the recess, I'll come to the chamber with that. In addition, Mr Van Oosten asked whether the Bibob Act should be extended. That is one of the questions on the table in that consultation. I'm sitting there with the mayors at the table asking if they have enough resources. This includes the instruments of the Bibob Act. I will return to this before the summer, when I come up with that overview. Mr Van Oosten also asked whether municipalities have enough opportunities to close down campsites. The answer to this is twofold. A municipality can currently close down houses in the interest of public order. That is a heavy instrument, because it affects one of the fundamental rights, but it can indeed be applied. The closure of a very complex goes one step further. This too is part of the list of issues that are being discussed in my consultation with mayors; in that sense this is a bit of a repetition of moves. We are asking what they are up against and whether this still requires legislation to be adapted. To what extent can you close not only an individual house, but also, for example, a complex? I'll be back before the summer. I come now to the questions about criminal property.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u57	Before you answer them, there are questions from the Chamber, first of all from Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u58	Prior to this debate, we discussed an oral question with your colleague from the Interior about the Fort Orange campsite. As a result, I asked the follow-up question to what extent it should continue to be possible for people to register at campsites which, by definition, should be considered temporary. I like to be informed if I am right, but it seems possible to obtain a permanent residence within the Municipal Basic Administration (GBA) on something that should by definition be considered temporary. Shouldn't we just see if it's gonna stay that way? I think that this is risky for those who have wrong, illegal motives at such a campsite.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u59	Mr Van Oosten poses an interesting dilemma to me, because that question has also been put to Mr Plasterk. Mr Van Oosten listened in at the time, but I did not. That is, of course, quite a confession that I cannot listen to every question from Question Time. I now run the risk of saying something different than Mr Plasterk. I can say that this requires careful consideration. There has been a debate on the long-term habitation of recreational homes. For example, if people are looking for housing urgently after a divorce, they are very happy that they can register there for a while. Before making the whole phenomenon impossible because of the legitimate purpose that Mr Van Oosten calls it, you must really chew on it. I hope that Mr Plasterk has said something similar. Otherwise, we're gonna talk about it again in the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u60	Mr Van Oosten is undoubtedly going to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u61	I'll leave that in the middle. I raise the question for a reason, because we are talking to the Minister of Security and Justice here. I am talking about this issue because I am concerned about criminal acts that appear to be detected at campsites. I think everyone in this house wants to put an end to that. I do relate that to the question of whether it is possible for someone to sign up for it permanently. I understand it's an interplay between two departments, between two ministers. I also understand that careful consideration is being made and that all the other elements play a role. I ask the Minister to look at this aspect as well and ask the mayors if that is still possible. Should the government act or can the municipal government impose restrictions? I don't know, and I'd like to be clear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u62	As Mr Van Oosten now asks, I would like to come back to it. Then I will be able to weigh up the consequences of a possible ban and submit all aspects to the Chamber. I would suggest that this should take place in the same letter before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u63	It's on the record.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u64	When criminal networks start recruiting in the neighborhood, on the street or at school, there are incredibly many bodies involved: schools, social workers, youth work, police, justice and municipalities. In the books and articles that have recently been published, you often see that young people are still not noticed and fall between shore and ship. In my opinion, the big problem is that there has to be direction somewhere, that there has to be a problem person. That's what we're trying to do in Amsterdam. Can this happen in Brabant, for example, in such a way as to tackle these criminal networks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u65	This calls for a more nuance. Mr Van Raak asks how it is possible that no one takes the lead. During Question Time I indicated that in the last few thousand years parents have traditionally done so. The question is indeed why these parents do not do so in this family. It is quite important to note that parents do not do what they are supposed to do. By the way, that's what the law says, so they don't follow the law. Parents are responsible for underage children. It is therefore understandable that there are some safeguards around that before we say: 'Dear parents, you do not exercise your parental power well; we are going to intervene.' That's really very far-reaching. This often results in enormous emotions, resistance and lawsuits for the parents. When that moment comes, fortunately, we will have the tools to intervene, for example through youth care, with comprehensive safeguards surrounding it. Very often you notice that there is more going on in a family like this. Unfortunately, domestic violence, alcohol or drug use, debt problems or possible criminal activities of one or both parents are also common. Then you need multiple players. I indicated in Question Time this afternoon that then in the House of Security, in which those parties sit around the table, it is agreed who will take the lead. Again, it's a big deal. These are adult Dutch people who are also older, to whom we say: they are your children, you are moral and also legally responsible for them. You step over that and then you try to get order in that chaos as a government. If that's necessary, then we don't shine and we do, generally along the route of the Security House, where someone is appointed director.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u66	The parents are, of course, responsible, but it is precisely families that do not succeed, where these children are involved in crime because the parents themselves are often already part of a criminal organisation. Intrusive of the books and articles that have recently been published, I found the example in such a school square, where a 16-year-old girl is recruited, intimidated, blackmailed, but cannot go to the school itself and can certainly not go home. There are thousands of instances, but still someone like that falls between shore and ship. In the Netherlands we are extremely good at creating rules and setting up agencies, but apparently such a girl gets out of the picture and on the wrong path.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u67	Mr Van Raak is now presenting one case which is undoubtedly true and which unfortunately there will be many in the Netherlands. In the context of this case: I remember going to the Johan de Witt Scholengroep in the Schilderswijk, a school with a certain type of pupils and in a neighbourhood where this problem is very common. There I was let in the morning through the gate, which then closed at 8.15 am. I said, why is it closing? That was not, as I thought in a first impulse, to ensure that no children would escape during the day. No, that was to make sure the thugs didn't get into the schoolyard. If you asked and had a doctor's note, of course you could get rid of it. At that time, that was an excellent school that was very well aware of this and where the district agent also visited regularly. So I do not think that we should talk to each other about the fact that things are always going wrong and that schools, cops and youth care in the Netherlands are just messing around. I think it is right that we should speak here in response to the book and in response to signals from drivers and others about the constant pressure up. Mr Segers referred to this as a constant pressure on the side of crime to gain space and a constant repressing of authorities and caregivers to ensure that this country remains decently viable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u68	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u69	I'm not saying the authorities aren't doing their best. Those people are doing their stinking best, but the problem is who owns the problem. Who is ultimately responsible? Who's gonna take the lead in the end? It happens very often that such a girl ends up at school with the district agent and all kinds of other organisations, and that everyone does their best, but nobody takes the final responsibility, that nobody is the problem person. And then people fall between shore and ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u70	Mr Van Raak brings it so abstract that there will never be an answer to it either. If there is a temporary withdrawal from parental power, as much as possible will be sought to restore the role of parents. Those are the most logical directors. If the problem is very much in the youth-ggz field, then it will probably be agreed in the Safety House that the youth-ggz will eventually be leading. But that is another situation than when it is more a problem of drug trafficking for purely monetary gain. That's probably where the criminal side or the parole side is gonna be leading. That is why there is no single answer to Mr Van Raak's broad question as to who is in charge. Yeah, always the parents first, but if you don't, you're gonna end up in a complicated trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u71	I would very much like to continue with this, because the problem ownership is a very serious problem. It is still very vivid for me how I had a meeting with a city marine in Rotterdam, in Hillesluis. He said: there are 90 young people here who cause nuisance; I know almost all of them. He said that there is a multitude of welfare workers, civil servants and those involved on those 90 young people, but everyone is putting that file aside. He said, "'I'll take them one at a time. I'll take them by the hand. I lead them to an internship address, an employer. I'll make sure they're straight." So that ownership is crucial. That was his heart cry at the time. In that sense, I agree with Mr Van Raak. If we do not place ownership with the police or the school and clarify it, then everyone will look the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u72	Now I wonder if Mr Segers is saying the following. I've presented him with a number of cases. There is a serious problem of ggz in one of them; we will all recognise that. That's really different from someone who's completely sane and does something purely out of monetary gain. That is really something other than a situation where a family is unsafe because of domestic violence or drug use. In all these cases, do you have to decide from here in The Hague who takes the lead? I think it is very sensible that we put that at the Security Houses so that we can look locally at who is the most logical person. I really think that we would do something about reality if we were to say here in The Hague, again I mentioned three cases which, I fear, occur thousands of times a year in the Netherlands, and that one person is always the director.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u73	I fully agree with the Minister. That is not what we should prescribe in the local situation. We should not prescribe that we are the director, but that there is a director. It still happens too often that people look at each other and that children fall between shores and ships. Whether it's the Youth and Family Centre or the Security House, that's where it needs to be determined who takes the lead. Too often there is a lack of clarity about this. That is a cry of hearts that I learned at the time from the city Marine, who said he was going crazy about the fact that all those people have a little responsibility but that no one really owns the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u74	I recognize the cry of hearts. I also hear these sounds, but we must be careful not to simplify reality. I'm, like you, trying to find out, through regular contact with mayors, police and youth care, what they're up against. And yes, I hear this point a lot too. But we have to be careful that we run through the thought that we have just come up with a simple solution. I am concerned about developments, but I also see progress in the way we handle it. Those security houses have been around for a number of years now. I hope no one expected that by setting up the Security Houses there would be no more problems. No, but now it's much clearer who's on the move, who's in the lead, and who's doing what. I'm sure there's still some work to be done. The downside of the coin is that we regularly talk about organised crime here. To its cruyffian: every disadvantage has its advantage. We now have so much interest in the local government that has struck a blow. Until a while ago, it was not obvious that licence applications from municipalities across the country were explicitly considered whether criminal money might be behind it. The fact that the signals are coming out indicates that they are being used very intensively. It remains a constant challenge for us to see whether that is effective, whether that is going well enough. It is also right for Mr Segers to ask me about this, but it is not the case that only organised crime is taking steps and vice versa no success is being made. I'll be right back to take it from you. I am extremely reluctant to impose one matrix from The Hague. You need to take a local look at where the lead should be. Definitely the Security Houses work on a personal level. Is it a lead in the police or in mental health care? I constantly ask this question to the people who do the work, but I have not yet received the request from them: Minister, will force us to put the direction at institution A or B.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u75	If I'm right, we're on block three now about taking money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u76	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u77	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u78	Mrs Helder was the first to comment on that. If there is a subject on which there is no difference of opinion in this Chamber, that is the importance of taking it away. That's what we're all here for. We also see that the results have improved. The Court received figures for 2011-2016, showing a significant increase. We have invested considerably in additional capacity in recent years. $20 million went to FIOD, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Justice Collection Office. Specifically for the South of the Netherlands, 3 million extra has become available and with the police it has been agreed that more than 1,000 additional financial detectives will be hired. That's how we're on course. That shows that the stakes are complete. And yet we say together: the figures are rising, but it is still a low percentage. Mr Groothuizen commented on that. Unfortunately, it is not the case that the money earned by spinning pills or growing pot in Brabant is then at the Rabobank in Breda. I would like to mention the Rabobank, but that could have been another bank. That money is, of course, drawn away immediately, either in kind or abroad. They're really gonna keep that out of the picture. So you're going to run into the question of point one, where is the money or where is the capital? The second point is that taking away in our rule of law is a state measure that all measures against government measures are also open to. So that's literally years of litigation. It will be passed to the Supreme Court. Sure, 'cause you can. The lawyers smoke their chimney: €400 per hour! [[Sentence could not be parsed: Waarom zou je niet?]] So you end up in the D.A.'s and the FIOD's bet to take the money. It's done with all its power. You will also find yourself in all the guarantees of the rule of law that we do not have for nothing, and in the fact that money often disappears. That's no reason to sit back. That is why we have made these additional investments. But this does explain why the take-away rates - Mr Groothuizen went on to do so - are lower than we would all like. Furthermore, this is also the subject of information sharing, but I believe that we are not very far apart from each other in this area either. So we're going to try to create extra space for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u79	Minister, are you at the end of block three?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u81	Then there is a question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u82	I have a question because I want to draw a parallel with terrorism. We have agreed at European level that terrorism-based capabilities can be frozen. Is that more successful or does that not really mean much in the end? Or are there elements in those measures that are successful and that we can learn from?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u83	There are also European measures on money laundering. That's where the truth lies. Countries, often outside Europe, which offer a great deal of opportunity, are being put under increasing pressure to stop doing so. But it's definitely not waterproof. For me this also falls under the category 'we continue to press it'. I thought there was also a piece on the agenda of the JHA Council that I am going to discuss with the Chamber tomorrow. We continue to press it, but it is far from waterproof at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u84	There are indeed measures against money laundering. Yet that is something else of course. Maybe we can talk about that tomorrow. I have another question. Has there ever been talk at European level about declaring something similar to freezing or assets in the case of terrorism? Can something like this be done here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u85	I am not prepared to do so, because I have not been in the European circuit for that long. Can I come back to that tomorrow? Then I can check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u86	The Minister refers to 1,000 additional financial detectives. I said in my first term that the Court of Auditors is a little more sceptical, a little more critical in this area. I think she says that she is concerned about whether or not these people can be found and whether or not they can be preserved. Can the Minister explain why he is so positive and why the Court of Auditors is so sceptical?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u87	The Court of Auditors expresses a number of concerns about this, but it does not say that nothing is happening. I think, frankly, it's undesirable for financial people to leave the police again out of discontent or displeasure. But when I look around the security and justice domain, I'm rather surprised at how often there are lifelong careers within a component, whether within the judiciary, the public prosecutor's office, the police or my own ministry, and how few people do one thing for a period and then another. So I don't startle immediately when people do something else. Especially when it comes to financial detectives, I can imagine that it is very wise not to do so in the same position for 40 years, because technology is moving forward and new methods are being devised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u88	I very much agree with that. It can be very good to push your boundaries and do something else. However, I do believe that there is a problem. I remember from not too long ago that it happened quite often that the police attracted financial detectives, trained and painted blue, as it is so beautifully called, but that they then left again two years later, sometimes to the Tax Office, sometimes to the FIOD and sometimes to something quite different, because they could earn a lot more there. In my view, these are precisely the problems which the Court of Auditors points out. I therefore think that the Minister should take a more serious look at this criticism and not just say that it is good to look outside the door occasionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u89	If there really is a drain, in this case apparently to other public services, you have to look critically at whether the salaries are comparable. Mr Groothuizen is right about that. So I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u90	I am curious to see whether the Minister can indicate to what extent it has become common practice in the case of withdrawal cases to look at which part of the government is best placed to deal with the criminal, who is still suspect at the time. Is that the state's attorney's office, with all the procedures the minister just described? Or is it better if it's the IRS?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u91	There is coordination between the two parties in that consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u92	There's alignment. Happy, I'd like to say. Is this also the standard case for withdrawals that anyone can sense is about something? Is it therefore considered by default which part of the government, the Tax Administration, the Public Prosecutor or perhaps third-party organisations is the best move to take the most quickly the motivation of the criminal, namely the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u93	Mr Van Oosten is critical of this. I am inclined to say yes, but I am just going to check it out and then Mr Van Oosten will hear that in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u94	The Minister continues his speech. We've arrived at block four.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u95	Yes. Mrs Helder was the first to address the demand for capacity, both for the police and for the court. Mr Segers also mentioned this. I have tasted some discontent with Mr Segers in response to my earlier reply, which is the only answer I can give at the moment. I can fly it along a different route. I have seen requests through the press and through letters for the security domain in the order of 1 billion. Before the elections, this wish came our way on a large scale. I've been looking at the pass-throughs of the election programs. There is a tendency to allow the government agreement to be the weighted average of the electoral programmes of the participating parties. I haven't seen any party that's prepared 1 billion for security in her calculated program. However, that was apparently the wish that lived with a number of letter writers at least. So that already indicates that the choice dilemma, which you always stand for when it comes to security, lives with all parties. Fortunately, in recent years, with the support of the Chamber, this cabinet has been able to make extra money available for it. I have already said that I do not think you should say that the situation is irresponsible, but it remains true that with more money you can prosecute more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u96	I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Was this the answer to the questions on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u97	No, there's more coming. Mrs. Helder specifically went into court.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u98	I still want to respond to a factual error. The minister says no one invests a billion dollars. Then he did not read properly the calculated election programme of the SP, because we are still far above the 1 billion investments in security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u99	Let me say to Mr Van Raak that on that expenditure side there is EUR 1 billion but that there is actually not very much on the financing side, so that they are not hard euros. I have already said to Mr Van Raak that the amount is on the expenditure side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u100	This is quite disgusting, isn't it? This is a calculated election program. All the election programs have been calculated by the Planning Bureau. From this, I'll give you just one random example: the VVD scores fairly well with 700 million dollars, which is a good second tranche, but the SP has an amount of 1.2 billion. That's just been calculated by the Planning Bureau. I do not know how the Minister tries to take that off, but those are all hard euros and they are all calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u101	As far as the transfer is concerned, I agree with you, but not with regard to the hard euros. The interesting thing about a wire transfer is that it shows where the money has to come from, so it's basically whether it's there. With all due respect to the Socialist Party's programme, it shows that it is pulling a gaping hole in the shelf life. So it's virtual money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u102	Are we going to have a serious debate in this Chamber or not? We have a surplus at the end of the next cabinet period. A surplus! Then the Minister can question those figures, but that's exactly why the parties have it passed on. If we have a debate here on investments in security, let us just take the figures as they have been passed on and not the Minister's fantasy figures. Then we've just invested 1.2 billion in security. It's okay that others do less. I will make a proposal later, where I will be sitting at about the lowest level, which in this case is GroenLinks, namely 200 million. I will ask the Chamber to at least give that money to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u103	I do not understand why Mr Van Raak is so indignant. I indicated it pulled a gaping hole in the shelf life. So in four years, it'll be "at your service," but then you'll have to fire those cops again. I find that really undesirable because you no longer have any money in the longer term. That's also what the Planning Bureau's been doing. The reason why this subject came up was that Mr Segers once again fundamentally challenged me on the question of whether there is enough money now, and I indicated that you are ultimately faced with the complicated consideration of how much money you spend for security and how much for education and other purposes. In any case, it is not the case that there is now an irresponsible situation. Mrs Helder, Mrs Kuik and Mr Grothuizen discussed the situation at the court in Brabant. I have indeed heard signs that there is a shortage in that area. This has led to a number of measures taken by the Council in the field of justice, which ultimately does the recruitment and allocation. The fact that there is tightness in a part of the country can also lead to a decision to move capacity elsewhere in the country. In addition, there are twenty judges in training to deal with the shortage. Mrs. Kuik asked about the progress of the undermining chamber. It's being established now. I should also like to be briefed on the progress made. Mr Groothuizen asked whether the Public Prosecutor's Office could deliver sufficient items. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice agree on an annual basis on the compatibility of capacities. Of course, courts should be able to assess about what the Public Prosecutor's Office is going to deliver, and vice versa, the Public Prosecutor's Office should be able to assess what the courts can handle. That alignment is taking place. Mrs Helder referred to the idea that Mrs Van Toorenburg was also concerned with bringing together criminal assets that have been taken away in a separate battlehouse. I told the Chamber earlier that an initial investigation did not produce the result we all hoped for, namely that the proceeds would be sufficient to make up for the costs. Since I still think it is an interesting route, I have had a follow-up study with my colleague in Finance to check whether it is final. In addition, the question of the budgetary rules and the final political balance play a role, but I will let the Chamber know at the beginning of 2018 whether another interpretation of the business case, as we have just mentioned, would be possible to calculate such a packing fund. I mentioned the amounts of the take-away. Mrs Buitenweg stressed, not just for taking away, but for the whole approach, that there must be a long-term commitment and a long-term breath. I agree, and those are not just words. I indicated that a number of years ago, there, predecessors deserve all the credits for the fight against organized crime was brought to a higher level with the establishment of the Regional and Rural Information and Expertise Centres, with the security houses. Due to the increased attention given to this issue in the Chamber and beyond, in recent years we have also made specific funds available in the budget a number of times, not only specifically for the fight against organised crime, but also specifically for the south of the country. I have already announced to the Chamber twice that I will prepare legislation. One legislation concerns the sharing of information and the other the prohibition of criminal gangs, including motorcycle gangs. So I would also like to point out that I want to continue to follow up on the missionary period as well. I'm in need of the "other questions" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u104	I see there are still questions about capacity. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u105	I was just waiting to see if the block was over. I find it interesting with regard to the issue of the Zeeland-West-Brabant court that the problem in the south is obviously not concentrated in that court, but also that the East-Brabant court in Den Bosch plays a role in that and, you may assume, also the Maastricht court. The Limburg problem is perhaps a little smaller but certainly not much smaller than the one in Brabant. Does the Minister have any idea what the specific problem is in the Zeeland-West-Brabant court, which apparently plays less in the other two courts?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u106	You've got to be careful. I was just talking to Mr Segers and Mr Van Raak about the question of what to do in detail from The Hague and what to leave to those responsible. There is a Council for Justice in the Netherlands. It gets a budget, it gets blessed by the Chamber and it makes a capacity assessment every year and allocates people and resources. The Council of Justice is also faced with the dilemma that everyone who works for the government has, but also beyond that, that the ambitions are often greater than the money available. So he must allocate capacity within the, I believe, 5 billion available for that purpose. How much the Council allocates precisely to Maastricht, Den Bosch and Breda for justice, I really think it should make a decision. Otherwise, I'll sit in his chair as a minister. Then there are people who are going to say that it is contrary to the rule of law, because I should not interfere with that. But even if you are not so heavy on hand, it is still clumsy when I am going to do the Council's work for justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u107	I agree with the Minister, although I do not think it is an answer to my question. My surprise was more about the following. We have a province of Brabant. There are two districts in it. One is served by the Zeeland-West-Brabant court, the other by the East-Brabant court. The court of Zeeland-West-Brabant is calling the alarm clock. I didn't hear the court in Den Bosch do that. Maybe I missed something. My question is, is there a problem there? Is there something organizational there that we can learn from, which helps us solve the problem? Is one court perhaps doing more conveniently or is something going well in one court, which is not going well in the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u108	I was hoping to have answered that question from Mr Grothuizen, but that answer was obviously not effective. As a businessman, I would find it quite interesting to look into the precise problems of the court in Den Bosch or the court in Breda, but then I would run into the state-law question: why do I have to do that, because we have a court of law which has the task of doing so within the budget we make available to each other, in order to ensure that capacity is used to the full. That's why I don't think it makes sense when I go to court to see exactly how things are going. That would also be a bit of a vote of no confidence towards the Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u109	I assume that the Minister has had discussions with the Council of Justice. Of course, you don't have to sit in his seat right away, but you could of course take the issue with you in such a regular consultation and ask if there is a particular problem, if there is a difference that could help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u110	You can do that along that line. Again, in that balance independent justice and who does what. I see that Mr Van Oosten is standing at the interrupting microphone. I now have an answer to a question from him. He looks at me with anticipation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u111	I suggest that you say that immediately after Mrs Helder has been given the floor. But before I give her the floor, I will inform the Chamber that this committee will have a meeting with the Supreme Court at 6.30 p.m. I also see Mr Van Oosten standing at the interrupting microphone. I would say: let us ensure that we can end this debate at 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u112	I'm gonna do my best. I agree with the Minister that he should not interfere with the courts at a detailed level. I hear him saying there are 20 judges in training. As I have always understood, they are in training but still the question is whether they will be placed there. So, in that context, just the question to the Minister: did the Council say before the case-law that those twenty go to the court in question which the Minister mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u113	I don't know about that, but I'd like to come back to it as soon as I have the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u114	Thank you. Mrs. Helder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u115	That's fine. I have another question. It was about the police capacity. I had just informed the Minister that I am not asking for extra money or for money, but whether, within the current budget, a solution can be found, in consultation with the Chief Constable or in consultation with the Chiefs of Team on the ground, in order to be able to carry out investigations. I admit immediately that this is also a bit at the level of detail, but perhaps a solution can be found in consultation and without money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u116	Yeah, I'm trying to figure out how to decouple detectives from a capacity demand. I wouldn't know, because it means putting your people and resources on one case and not on the other. So I fear it will lead to the same question along another route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u117	The Minister replied to a previous question from Mr Van Oosten. Perhaps Mr Van Oosten would like to hear that answer first before considering another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u118	The question was whether the State's Attorney's Office would standardize with tax authorities. I just wanted to check before I just say yes, but that's the standard procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u119	Mr Van Oosten still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u120	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I am also pleased with this answer, because it does mean that that consideration is made at the front, precisely because of the question of which organization can best deal with that blow hardest and the easiest. My question is now about the 150 million-dollar cash that the regional mayors are talking about. I find it very difficult to appreciate that amount. My question to the Minister, which I have not yet heard an answer to, is how he looks at that amount. Is that the amount that we need to tackle the undermining culture, which plays in particular in Brabant but which is also being discussed by the country, or are we talking about other greats?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u121	You cannot say: this amount is enough to do so in the area of security. At any amount available, that will be the political reality, you can identify priorities for what we think is most urgent. I fear that this will also be the way in which the next cabinet works. I sincerely hope that a new coalition agreement will allow us to find additional money, but it is likely that this will not only go to organized crime, if I am equally honest with all the security issues involved. Unfortunately, we have also talked about cybersecurity here enough times. Once again, I can say that fortunately we are not in the situation of not doing enough, but I cannot say that with amount x or y all the problems have been solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u122	This afternoon, in Question Time, we have seen the examples of crime in schoolyards, and we are now reading a thick report on seven families, and they symbolise much more of those who do nothing but commit crime. In view of the urgency of this problem, should we not be able to do better than it is now? What price tag is needed to make additional efforts to combat this problem? That is what I would like to know, so that I can do something politically with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u123	I understand the question, but I would really hurt reality by suggesting that, because the price tag is always part of the broader consideration. The first question is: what weighs the most in the security domain? I have heard many wishes here in other areas as far as safety is concerned, all of which are equally respectable. The broader political consideration of where the money is going is to be done in a formation and later in budgetary treatment. Of course I'm happy with amounts of this size, but that's never the end of the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u124	We have arrived at the block of 'other'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u125	Yes. Mrs Helder asked why there are no minimum penalties in the Netherlands. As Mrs Helder knows, this has been part of the political debate. In any case, this cabinet does not intend to come forward with such proposals, because we think it is right that the judge should ultimately consider what an appropriate punishment is. Mr Van Oosten asked whether the national Bibob register was being used sufficiently. It is used daily, two or three times a day. I have not received any signals that there would be deficits in this area. The fact that it is used daily illustrates that it is found right. Mrs Kuik touched on the point that she raised last week in Question Time, namely the appalling situation that mayors and aldermen, local administrators, are threatened or even have to go to a safe place. That situation is indeed very undesirable. We must use all our power to remove the bad guys from society instead of our rulers. At the same time, when considering people's safety issues, you may never be light-hearted to say: we do have indications that your life is seriously threatened, but we do not know exactly from whom that threat comes; for that reason we advise you to move to a safe address for a while. We wish we didn't have to, but if we ruled out that possibility, we would put people at risk. We have to be reluctant about it. But as annoying as it is, we need to keep that possibility behind us. Mr Van Raak addressed the question of responsibility. He just did that in the event of interruption. If I were to respond to that now, I would be repeating myself. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u126	Thank you very much. There's another question from Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u127	I already have great hesitation in asking this question when it comes to driver security. On the one hand, you must be able to do it in anonymity. The people who must guarantee our security must be able to act without us having a magnifying glass on top of it. On the other hand, I have heard twice in consecutive weeks that people are actually being moved abroad to make security possible. I wonder if we will have such a big problem that security in the Netherlands is no longer possible. Or is such extreme measures taken, to be sure? I'm still talking. I'm rounding off, President-in-Office, but I don't have to ask any additional questions. If we cannot talk about it properly in public, perhaps we should look at each other seriously and decide to discuss it further in private. I don't want us to signal a trend here. On the one hand, safety does not have to be compromised. On the other hand, I think that if there is a trend, we need to make it clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u128	I understand the concern. I appreciate the care with which Mrs Kuik talks about it. The consideration of doing something at home or abroad does indeed have security aspects. It is unwise to discuss with each other in public when and under what conditions you choose to go inland and when you choose to go abroad. If that is to be discussed further, I would prefer it to be done in private.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u129	Of course, we must do so by a majority of the committee. I am testing your commitment that we can have the opportunity to discuss this in private.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u130	If the Chamber needs information, it will be provided. But if it has to be confidential, I'd like it to be done in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u131	I'll take a look at the clock and Mrs. Van Toorenburg. We have to be done here by 6.30 p.m. because of the scheduled meeting with the Supreme Court. I see that you still have a question, Mrs Van Toorenburg, but there is also a second deadline. In fact, I would suggest that you put your question in second place. I see you disagree. Then you must promise me that we will be ready at 6.30 p.m. anyway. You may briefly ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u132	I just want my first-term questions answered before I start my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u133	I get that. I suggest you keep it short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u134	We have first established that the research report indicates that the objectives of an integrated approach are sometimes not in line. Could the Minister please comment on how he intends to prevent this? That is a very clear point. My last point is a bit crazy, but I mentioned it anyway because I find it very interesting: officials cannot think like criminals and I asked if you do not see that in the plans. How can we get to a situation where people know better what works and what doesn't work, because they think like someone who is on the wrong side?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u135	If I recall correctly, Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke of the contradiction she saw between the desire to be able to re-socialize, to participate in society, and the desire to be able to punish and tackle crime. That's a classic dilemma. I can see from Mrs Van Toorenburg's reaction that she did not mean that. Then I need a more detailed explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u136	This book explains very clearly that very often the objectives are not aligned, because the focus is different. My question to the Minister is whether he will undertake to take a good look at that. Does he want to take this point out when he talks to the task force again and ask if anyone recognizes this? I recognize that not all partners in this integrated approach have the same objective in mind. That's a point that comes back to me every time and now it's also described in this book.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u137	If the question is asked like this, I will answer it with a full yes. Then I'll put that question to the task force. The other question was about officials who can't think like criminals. I think everyone who hears that sentence for the first time thinks: well, thank God! But the follow-up question is indeed how to get into the criminal's skin. On the contrary, the regional and national information and expertise centres play a major role in this. That is where we share what we see. A number of the spokesmen pointed out: what came first to the surface in Brabant also passed on to Zeeland in a waterbed effect, as Mr Van der Staaij said. Gelderland is also mentioned. For example, in the Law Bibob, which Mr Van Oosten asked for, we see that directors are really more aware. In any case, it is better to make officials think more like criminals and also share the lessons with each other. All the directors I speak to confirm that this was not or hardly a subject at the administrative tables in many parts of the country, but is now at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u138	I would like to thank the Minister for his first answer. I'm looking at the Chamber to see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I would remind you once again of your follow-up meeting with the Supreme Court at 6.30 p.m. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u139	Mr. Chairman. I will be very brief, because the Minister has indicated that we will talk more about this task force and about the undermining and that there will be a lot of things. We're filing one motion, and it's about the criminal families, because that's what we were talking about today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that breaking the transfer patterns of criminal careers within criminal families is very difficult;]] [[whereas repression alone often does not satisfy the requirements;]] [[Considering that good results have been achieved in the integrated approach to domestic violence, the systematic offender approach (isd) and the Amsterdam approach of the Top 600;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether a similar approach for criminal families could contribute to its approach,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Toorenburg, Van der Staaij, Buitenweg, Kuik, Segers, Van Raak and Grootehuizen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u140	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. Nevertheless, I still have two motions for resolutions. The first one is about taking away criminal property. The minister said there's no reason to sit back. I totally agree with him. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the taking away of criminal assets, in addition to the imposition of punishment, is a successful means of combating undermining crime;]] [[Whereas criminal assets have often been diverted to, for example, foreign accounts before they can be taken away;]] [[Considers that it should not be the case that, after a criminal case, a criminal still has criminal money and is thus able to continue his criminal practices or "interesten" them;]] [[whereas this is also a form of undermining;]] [[calls on the Government to allow criminally obtained money to be taken away at an earlier stage than is currently the case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-159]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u141	Despite the fact that the Minister has said that he will come up with an overview of bottlenecks and measures for the sharing of information, I submit the next motion to support it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that privacy legislation in particular raises problems in tackling undermining crime;]] [[noting that there is a single common administration, but that the exchange of information between them is very slow;]] [[considers that a rapid exchange of information is necessary for an effective approach to undermining crime;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and eliminate the bottlenecks in privacy law relating to the exchange of information within the government in the context of an efficient (re) approach to undermining crime, whether through legislation or not,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u142	Mr. Chairman. We have had debates over the last few weeks on security and police. Today we have an important debate on security and police. In the coming weeks, too, we will continue to have these debates. There's a formation going on, but it could take a while. Until then, this Chamber should simply tackle the problems and provide the Minister with resources to do so. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large majority of the parties now represented in the Lower House would like to invest extra in the police;]] [[calls on the government to make an additional 200 million available to the police immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u143	It's always interesting to have a motion asking for extra money, but have we missed a tree somewhere that we can shake very hard so that that wealth pours out of that tree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u144	In contrast to the Minister, I have looked closely at the election programmes and the transfers. This shows that the SP wants to invest 1.2 billion, the VVD 700 million and the CDA slightly less. The lower limit was GroenLinks: 200 million. That's what I'm suggesting now. That is a budget that, I think, will also be the minimum that comes out of the negotiations. The minimum, because it is the minimum of the electoral programmes. If we give the Minister all kinds of homework over the last few weeks, today and in the next few weeks, it might be so neat to provide the resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u145	I'm curious about the cover anyway. In the election programs, we have all sought different coverage. This afternoon, there was a motion from the SP on the NFI. They also asked for free money. That is why we voted against it, whereas we also believe that further investment in the NFI is a good thing. However, I believe that there should always be cover. We have the same problem here. We have different coverage in our election programs. Speaking specifically of your motion, the specific question is what is the cover for that. In itself, I am sympathetic to the request, but I do need to know where the money comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u146	We have just looked at, among other things, the parties that may now form. This amount, I think, will be the absolute minimum that a new government comes up with. This will be the bottom, I think, to tell GroenLinks more easily. This will be the lower limit. This will be the bottom. This is the least of it. This is what GroenLinks has in his election program, with the rest there is a lot more. We are now discussing all kinds of important social issues here. Today we are tackling major organised crime in Brabant. The debates have something very uncomfortable when we say that there are major problems when we say that the government must get to work, but then they do not provide any resources. It can't be! We can't keep doing that for months. The Cabinet is indeed a missionary, but the Chamber is not a missionary. So if we ask the government to solve all kinds of problems, we must also provide the resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u147	Thank you. I would like to ask the Chamber whether the motion is sufficiently supported. Yeah? That's the case. It will then be part of the debate. Mr Groothuizen waived a second-term contribution. I would like to inform the House that Mr Segers had signed up for the second term of this debate because of work elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u148	Mr. Chairman. In this second term I would like to make a few comments. We have discussed seven crime families here this afternoon, which unfortunately seem to symbolize much more, especially in Brabant. When you read the report, these families also seem to deserve the awe of the environment in which they live for incomprehensible reasons. We need to get rid of that awe. They need to be pulled off their pedestal. Everyone has to understand that they're nothing but common criminals. This also means that we must stand here today in politics in The Hague for those administrators and officials who take the lead locally in tackling these types of figures, for those mayors and aldermen. Mrs Kuik mentioned the example of the alderman in Emmen, who had to flee abroad for defending the interests of his city. I cannot stress enough that I think it is of the utmost importance that we stand for our drivers in the country. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given to my questions in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u149	Madam President. Actually, I just want to file a motion. Just like Mrs. Helder's motion, it's about getting rid of criminal assets. This motion makes something more concrete, which I think should be done, and says that there should always be a criminal investigation afterwards. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important to take control of the criminal assets of suspects and to prevent funds from being diverted;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate effective and legally responsible means of freezing suspected criminal property positions as soon as possible and preferably without the knowledge of potential suspects prior to criminal investigations, and to inform the Court of Justice of this investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Buitenweg, Keiken, Van Toorenburg, Van Oosten, Segers, Van der Staaij and Van Raak.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u150	Mr. Chairman. Some criminal families have been with us for years. We must have the illusion that we have solved that problem suddenly at once. It is a good thing that there is a great deal of attention to it now and that we are taking on something from crime, at the top, that we recognise it and that we are getting on with it. Nor will it be the last time we have the debate on this issue. As a number of colleagues have said, it is important to continue to tackle this together. Those who want to tackle this problem, as well as others, for example in education, we must support them. I have already said that it would be a good idea for us as a committee to hold another private meeting on the threat posed by administrators and others who are serving the government. Then we can see how we proceed with that. I thank the Minister for his answer to the questions. We'll see each other soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u151	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. In view of the clock, I shall also have to submit one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need to strengthen the approach to organised crime in North Brabant and other regions;]] [[Considering that investigations carried out by the Police College among police officers show that there is an acute need, particularly among neighbourhood agents, for permanent local activities of investigation teams that, on the basis of local information, conduct criminal investigations into organised crime, but find that they do not have sufficient hearing to do so, leaving organised crime unpunished;]] [[Considering that better embedding of detectives in local police work by, inter alia, specially appointed detectives per base team can provide a good solution to this problem;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways of improving cooperation between district agents and local detectives in order, inter alia, to tackle organised crime more effectively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Segers and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29911-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u152	I don't have the last motion yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u153	I give the floor to the Minister to give an opinion on the motions tabled and to answer any questions he may have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u154	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 158 by Mrs Van Toorenburg and a number of others ask the government to investigate whether a similar approach.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'd be happy to have that investigation done. I also referred to the lessons that we can learn from this. Part of that will be the way we can ensure that it is properly embedded locally. Mrs Van Toorenburg will understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u155	What is the Minister's opinion? Take over?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u156	Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 159 of Mrs Helder asks the government to allow criminally obtained money to be taken away at an earlier stage than is currently the case. That is a very broad wish. I shall now turn to Mrs Buitenweg's motion, which points in a direction and asks for research to be carried out. But it's not as undetermined as this one, so I have to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Helder's 160 asks me to do something I have already promised. I think I can say that it is superfluous. The motion in part No. Mr Van Raak asked the government to make an additional 200 million available to the police immediately. The motion is uncovered and uncovered motions are always dissuaded. The motion in part No. 162 by Mrs Buitenweg and a number of other petitioners, asking the government to investigate effective and legally responsible possibilities to freeze suspected criminal asset positions as soon as possible and preferably without the knowledge of potential suspects prior to criminal investigations and to inform the Court of Justice of this investigation. I'd be happy to have that investigation done. I hope Mrs Buitenweg realizes that the part 'out of the knowledge of suspects' can be very complicated: when suddenly you can't pin it, you can really see it. I'd like to have an investigation conducted into the seizure at an earlier stage, so I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Mr Van Oosten once again pointed out that we must all support the local leaders, who are indeed also at personal risk here. I very much agree with him, however annoying the measures we sometimes have to take. Mrs Kuik came up with the observation that the job was not just done, which I agree with her. I responded to Mrs Helder's motion. It also had an answer to the question whether the twenty additional judges were also specific to the region of West Brabant/Zeeland. The answer to that is yes. Then I come to the motion-Van der Staaij c.s. in piece No. 163 which calls on the government to examine ways of improving cooperation between district police officers and local detectives in order, among other things, to tackle organised crime more effectively in response to the investigation report some weeks ago. I'd be happy to do that investigation. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u157	I would like to thank the Minister for his second answer. I thank him for coming to the Chamber. I thank the spokesmen for their input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-20.u158	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
