ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u2	We are continuing the debate on the Foreign Affairs budget. I shall give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the first time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members of Parliament for their contribution in the first term and congratulations to my address. Thanks again. I look forward to the good cooperation in the coming years. We have already answered many questions in writing. Given the length of the previous debate, I think that is a blessing. There are still a number of issues I will deal with: human rights, the postal network, the Middle East, Iran, migration, the fight against terrorism and nuclear disarmament. I will pick up those blocks in my oral answer and I will start with a more general introduction. Then you know what's coming, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Three weeks ago, I was asked when I joined the Council of Ministers the question of which foreign ministers I see as an example. At that time, in all modesty, I thought I would be very honored if I ever came near predecessors like Max van der Stoel and Frans Timmermans. It can go fast has turned out to me. I have been in office for about three weeks now, as it is called, and I am apart from the Hulk in the first term of the Chamber of this debate compared to Van Kleffens, Van der Stoel and Timmermans. Even greats like John F. Kennedy came along. Mr Sjoerdsma has already appointed me the most European foreign minister ever. Yeah, to be honest, that's too much honor. It is far too early for any comparison, even for the comparison Mr Ten Broeke used: delicious, clear, Halbe. Although it's a good alliterator. Seriously. In fact, at the beginning of my first term, I would like to go back to a moment yesterday at the end of the first term of the Chamber. That was the essence of a lot of things. Something happened in the debate which touches the core of what we stand for in the debate on human rights and foreign policy. A small debate between Mrs Karabulut and Mr Kuzu focused on freedom of expression. Mrs Karabulut said very strikingly: I have a very different opinion from you, Mr Kuzu, but I am going to defend that you may find what you find, but make sure that my opinion is respected and not all threats and misery are against it. That is a very large core of what we stand for. I am not of the constant mention of great philosophers, but Voltaire did not say for nothing: I strongly disagree with your opinion, but I will fight to death for your right to express it. That's what actually happened yesterday. Also a point of criticism: I think that we are all in favour of such matters and that we are all very good at claiming our right to express our opinion freely. But yesterday it was quite rightly stated that it is much more important that you grant someone else the right to that freedom of expression and stand before it. That's not a "yes, but" part of it. It's "yes," because "yes, but" is actually "no." I liked the debate. I actually hope we can end it today without the "but." What Mrs Karabulut asked is one of the essential things that comes with a Western democracy and the values that we advocate. I'll stand for that, too. We also looked for differences with my predecessor in the first term. I have already said that what is not broken is not to be repaired. The negotiations for the new coalition agreement have resulted in a renewed commitment to an active foreign policy. So I see a lot of room for continuity. In the first term of the Chamber, I was able to observe that a majority here also sees this main line and realizes, for example, that we are now interested in a well-functioning European Union and that a new or a break-up of the European Union will be truly dramatic for a country like the Netherlands. Take a look at what's happening in the United Kingdom. A majority sees that peace and stability elsewhere are thus served by a well-functioning UN, that NATO will remain the cornerstone of our security over the coming decades, that an organisation such as the OSCE will have to continue to play an important role at the intersection of East and West over the coming years, and that promoting human rights is also of great importance elsewhere. I start this job at a time when the Netherlands is doing very well, but the panels are moving internationally. That's what makes our situation fragile. Mr Van Ojik described it a little funny when the Gaul village in the world should not change that, but he also said that we in the world are more connected than ever. That is true and that offers unprecedented opportunities to make the world a better place. That too is true. But that also offers unprecedented opportunities for those who want to make the world a little worse. That's the motivation I wanted to put down. The achievements we have in this country, the freedoms we stand for, are fragile. We have to protect them. We are actually seeing strong movements on three axes of Dutch foreign policy. These are the axes: global, European and domestic. I'll walk them off. On the global axis, we see a number of major trends.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u4	But at least I saw a major step from Mr Voordewind from the Christian Union to the interrupting microphone. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u5	Before we go to the different levels, I was curious about the following. The Minister gave an introduction to the pillars of foreign policy as he sees it. He specifically mentioned human rights in this context. He added something, namely that human rights are important here. I wonder if this Minister thinks that these human rights are important for that country too. In other words: are we in favour of human rights because it gives stability? That is in the interest of the Netherlands. Or is there also a feeling of foreign involvement, even though this may not be directly related to the stability of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u6	I was working on a general introduction, but I shall briefly address it. In a moment, I will get to this subject even more strongly. Let us be clear: we have a Universal Declaration of Human Rights for a reason. This means that human rights are universal. Doesn't look like a word of Spanish to me. In addition, it is also in our own interest. In free, democratic countries, there is less conflict. You'll have more trade, more freedom and better human rights. If you look at the world, there are about 85. This is not the case in the vast majority of countries. There's more conflict, more human rights violations and more poverty. So it's in our best interest, but it's also for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u7	The Minister said: you also have the Dutch self-interest. I do think it is important to hear from the Minister that we have two pillars. That was always the case, including his predecessor. We have human rights policy, the strengthening of the rule of law, and the Dutch self-interest. It is good to highlight that perhaps, because that is important for my party. The Minister says that we are trying to respect and promote universal human rights. If I have understood the Minister so well, we are in complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u8	It could just happen. We're about to go into some of the articles that were ever written and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u9	Of course, that went in as God's word in an elder. Thank you to the Minister for the valuable words on human rights. Yesterday, when it was about vision and general policy, it was about something called "new businessmanship." I don't think you're as interested in new businessmanship as your values are under pressure. I find it interesting to hear the Minister's views on this very point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u10	The risk is that we will now have the whole discussion while I still wanted to sit down the pillars of Dutch policy. The next issue after the introduction is human rights. If Mrs Ploumen allows me to finish the introduction, I think we should come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u11	You should never get into a fight with the minister at the beginning of the debate and vice versa. So fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u12	With Mrs Ploumen, I wouldn't want that at all. Mr. Chairman. What do we see of major trends on the global axis? For example, you see an economic and geopolitical shift east. It's been going on for a long time. You also see Anglo-Saxon disengagement. Look at the Brexit and how America behaves in some cases. There is instability east and south of Europe. There is also a threat of international terrorism. You see assertive behavior from countries like Iran, Turkey, Russia and North Korea. Human rights are under pressure worldwide. The UN is having a hard time. There's a constant migratory pressure. And, of course, there is a climate problem. I may have mentioned the most important things, but it is certainly not all of them. Also on the second axis, the European, there is plenty of movement, with an economic crisis, euro crisis, migration crisis and last but not least Brexit. They followed each other rapidly over the last few years and put solidarity between the Member States of the European Union to the test. Fortunately, the European Union has survived this and are now 27 Member States at the end of this exciting election year................................................................................................................................................... It is important that this search succeeds, because precisely because it is so turbulent, turbulent and unstable on the global axis, precisely because the US is withdrawing, we still need the Union in the future as a guarantee of our security, stability and prosperity. Europe must really be able to stop its own pants on the world stage. I am not going to anticipate the state of the Union too much. That is also what I am saying to Mr Van Rooijen, who asked a great many questions, which, by the way, is quite justified. I do not want to start the debate entirely, but let me be clear that as a minister I am pleased that the Foreign Affairs and European Affairs portfolios have remained with this Minister as in the previous period. It's the winning combination. We also need the EU trail for our external policies. That is why I am very pleased, for example, with the reinforcements made, inter alia, through PESCO, in the area of our security and cooperation within NATO. Then the domestic ashes. Is it weird for a foreign minister to talk about that? No, because that internal axis has only become more important in our foreign policy in recent years. In recent years, it has really become clear to everyone that yesterday Mr Kuzu said very clearly that what is happening abroad has consequences for everyone in the Netherlands. Certainly social media play an important role in this; it is happening very quickly. Whether we're talking about taking down MH17, about terrorist threats by IS, about migratory flows, about influencing diaspora by countries like Eritrea, Turkey or Morocco, about Russian cyber-threat or about financing Islam from Gulf states: it's all here and it's all coming in nationally. This is how it is experienced in our country. Foreign policy is no longer a far-from-my-bed show for anyone. That is why, in the coming years, we will be looking for and working with domestic support for foreign policy. We are talking internally in those areas where the connection between domestic and foreign policy needs to be made clear. We will also do this by giving guest lessons in schools and universities and by visiting cities and villages to talk about foreign policy there as well. We do this by showing what we have to offer, sometimes very concretely in the field of consular services. Optimum service must be offered to the Dutch businesswoman abroad, the holidaymaker and, like today, the Dutch who are in Zimbabwe while there is a coup d'état. Then too, it is good that there is Dutch consular services. Mr. Chairman. These three axes, global, European and national, show that there is plenty of work to be done and that it is good that there is close cooperation between Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and Defence. From day one, the directors concerned have also planned to do so in close cooperation. I therefore congratulate myself with my colleagues. The coalition agreement is clear: extra money for the Defense Department. Very good! We are also getting extra money for consular services, rising from 10 million to 40 million in the coming years, and additional money for development cooperation. I think that all these investments in all these areas after years of austerity are very, very welcome. In the near future, we will let you know how we are going to implement these resources. It was a bit ambitious to want to do that within two weeks, but we will, of course, share it with the Chamber and inform you about it. In response to Mr Van der Staaij's justified remark, I would say that we will avoid any yo-yo policy. It does indeed need to be consistent. We need to make clear choices to ensure that we can work even better for the Netherlands worldwide. And that scream knows everyone who comes to the State Department. Mr President, I would like to turn to the specific issues that remain after the written round. I'll start with human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u13	Just a minute. Mrs Karabulut, SP, has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u14	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Thanks for the introduction. I would like to say a great deal about it, but we are going to talk about it in detail today and in the coming years. I have a more general point now. It is very good that the Minister is simply putting universal human rights, international law, human rights and freedom of expression first, but there is now a human tragedy in Yemen. As he knows, Saudi Arabia, one of the US's most important allies, last week all borders, ports and so on have everything, really everything! Oh, shut it down. Kids are getting emaciated and there's a cholera epidemic. The biggest drama of our time, the UN says. Is the Minister prepared to condemn the actions of the allies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u15	There is no doubt that there is a tragedy going on. We are making every effort to ensure that aid can be brought to the people of Yemen. It is true that closing all these borders is leading to great dramas. The question of whether I'm judging the allies. Look, we appeal to our allies on arms supplies, for example. The Netherlands has a very strict regime for arms supplies when human rights are at stake, including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. We do that, precisely because of the conflict in Yemen. We also appeal to our European allies to move them to comply with the same criteria. If they sometimes deliver something that we have said is contrary to the criteria set, we will also discuss it. Judging me is too much. The Netherlands is very clear about the intervention by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates and the way of bombing. We don't think that's right. My predecessor, Mr Koenders, by being very persistent, has managed to ensure that thanks to the Dutch commitment there will be an investigation into abuses caused by Saudi Arabia in Yemen. Quite right! On the basis of the results, we will only end up in the field of possible convictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u16	That which the Netherlands has done is good. I am also pleased that the Minister is continuing to do so. But we are talking about these major issues and the principles of this minister's foreign policy. You can see that the United States continues to supply arms to Saudi Arabia. As you can see, the United Kingdom and France continue to supply arms to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia is now dropping those weapons on the people, on the children, putting them in shelters. There's just famine. Thousands of people die. If you don't condemn this, what do you condemn?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u17	As I have just said, it is not for nothing that Dutch pressure has brought about research. That took a lot of effort. It's a big step. That was not a walk in the park, to put it in good Dutch, but Mr Koenders has succeeded; honor who deserves credit. He has had to overcome a great deal of opposition to this, but he has succeeded. International is part of this, as you know, that you will end up properly. We're gonna investigate. We're gonna see what's being established. We all see horrible images, too. But we'll take it one step at a time. If there are cases that are worthy of condemnation, we will not fail to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u18	A final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u19	There is now also a statement by all the aid organisations present there. The place is blocked. The help isn't coming through. The bomb rain's upstairs. I think it's a very good research, but the kids are dying. They're being bombed to death. They're starving. There's cholera. That blockade must be lifted. I find it so embarrassing of the international community. This shows the double and ugly workings of current international politics. I would appreciate it very much and I would like it if our Foreign Minister would condemn it, and of course continue with the good work done by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u20	I think it is important to separate two things that now confuse Mrs Karabulut. I've just indicated which path to take when it comes to judging certain things. That's what we're gonna end up with. When it comes to the blockades, to the closing of borders, we are constantly trying to get that blockade off, so that aid can go in and so that the terrible situation there for people can be brought to fruition. Not only do we do this, but so do the European allies. So we are not waiting for an investigation. That's what we're trying to do right now. We are not always listened to, as you will understand. This is without prejudice to the fact that we do so all the time. But when it comes to convictions, you have to walk the other, decent path.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u21	In such a first big debate with a new minister, I always like to hear where he himself sees the new accents and for which he himself is particularly motivated to put energy into them in the coming period. Can he say anything about that at this general introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u22	I have just outlined the main lines of policy in the coming period. I also indicated that I see a lot of continuity. What's not broken, don't fix it. Dutch foreign policy has been really good in recent years, to be honest. With me, therefore, there is no great need for major revolutionary changes, let that be clear. Where do I put the accents? You will see that in the near future, because of the misery that is currently taking place. One of the things we are doing right now is to look at how we can talk to the various parties in the Gulf region. This means that you also need to look for dialogue with some uncomfortable countries, such as Saudi Arabia, so that you can also get some messages and maybe get some work done there. We'll get to that discussion in a minute. The same applies to a country such as Iran. If you're gonna get something done in that explosive region, you're gonna have to talk. That'll be one of the spearheads I'll try to put down. It is a neighbouring region; it is ultimately close to Europe. There is not only the ancient Palestinian-Israeli issue, but we are now seeing much bigger issues around Saudi Arabia and Iran. They play in Yemen, too. We are seeing developments in Lebanon that you really need to look at with great care: isn't that going to be another proxy war of actually a Shii Sunni battle? That would be really bad news. This has an immediate impact on Europe and the Netherlands, because there are a lot of refugees in Lebanon who have been received there. If misery breaks out there too, these people will of course run again, and they will also come here in part. Apart from that, it is a tragedy for the country itself. Lebanon has had to cope with a great deal of misery in recent years. If that's where the business gets off track, we'll have a real problem together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u23	Maybe a little more Saudi Arabia after all. The government agreement states that the cabinet will work towards better enforcement of the European arms export criteria. If there is one situation or country that you could say "there it is more necessary than anywhere else," then that is Saudi Arabia. I understand that a general conviction is not in there for a moment. Would the Minister, when he sees all his European colleagues next week, at least make this point concrete? Then he immediately gives performance to a nice piece of the coalition chord.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u24	It sounds disappointing, but the answer is no. Not next week, because then it's about a General Affairs Council. But with the next RBZ, which takes a little longer, I will certainly want to do this, as we do this all the time. So all the willingness to bring it up in that Council. We see that while the Netherlands almost continuously rejects requests for supplies to Saudi Arabia because of the human rights criterion, and in particular because of its appearance in Yemen, other considerations are being made elsewhere in Europe. Let me be honest with you: I do not have the illusion that people are going to behave differently because I bring it up. There are also major economic interests involved, countries that really make many billions of dollars. But the least we can do is bring it to the attention of the public. We do it all the time. That is why we do not say that the Netherlands is going to unilaterally impose an arms embargo. I've heard a lot of questions about doing that. However, we deliver almost nothing, so it doesn't have much impact anyway. I believe that 0.01% of arms exports come from the Netherlands and that is quite innocent stuff. But by doing so, you can check each time on those eight criteria, and in particular on the human rights criterion, and address and ask other countries: how can the Netherlands really find this contrary to the criteria we have agreed in Europe, but you do deliver? We do this all the time and the willingness is there to do so in an RBZ.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u25	That's good to hear. However, we will have to ask ourselves how it is that we achieve this every time, but we do not succeed. That's because some countries make a lot of money from those weapons. But there are also many European countries that do not have so much economic interests in supplying arms; the Minister knows this as well as I do. I believe the Minister is going to Berlin soon. I could easily imagine that he would find a number of European countries by his side. I would like to see him, perhaps in the run-up to that RBZ, see if he can expand the coalition of countries that say 'and now it has been enough with the arms supplies'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u26	We are constantly working on how to get it better there, in the context of arms supplies. That is why Mr Koenders has managed, for example, to get that UN ruling with the support of the Germans. Of course, we are also looking at countries like this. So I'm not gonna say no. We're gonna do it in a broad sense. I just want to manage the expectations: we also need to realise that there is a very significant flow within Europe, with great interests, which will not want that. But I see it as my task, and also my duty in the Chamber, to continue to speak to countries if they, in our opinion, make wrong choices in it. Because the conflict, which I fully agree with Mrs Karabulut, is really obrifying. I have to look for a Dutch word: it is very terrible what is happening there at the moment. Mr. Chairman. In fact, we are already talking about human rights when we talk about this, but I am now talking about human rights in a broader sense. We have seen some invitations to debate in the first term of the Chamber, following a much discussed article. By the way, I say to Mrs Ploumen that there is more than one, but then perhaps she should look a little better. It was about the article Realist foreign policy, written by one H. Zijlstra in another capacity in 2015. In fact, the key question was: what do you mean by that, and you still mean that? The good news is, I still mean it. The good news is that if you have read the article correctly, you have actually seen the Dutch foreign policy of the past few years, because Dutch foreign policy has not stood still since 2015. For example, you have been able to read a description of how you could deal with the reception of refugees in the region. Then there was a Turkey deal. But it's also about: what do you do with human rights? That's what most of the questions were about. For example, Mrs Ploumen said: you have to go for the desirable, the feasible is really insufficient. I get that. I think there is also a lot of misunderstanding, but let us try to understand each other today when we walk out of the room and hopefully we will be once again. Mr Ten Broeke pointed out that we should engage in dialogue with everyone. He literally said shake even the most bloody hand. That gives the expression "make dirty hands" a completely new dimension, but what he said is right. As Frans Timmermans went to Cuba, as my new and highly esteemed colleague Sigrid Kaag had to go to Assad to make sure that the chemical weapons went out of the country: you have to come and stay in conversation, but also really in conversation with regimes that we have nothing to do with. That's the core of "feasible." I would like to quote what Mr Koenders has achieved in Yemen. He went for the desirable, but he finally got something done. At some point he had to take a few steps back, but with that he got a verdict. Had we gone for the desirable, the most feasible, we would not have had a ruling. That's what I'm talking about. Mr Sjoerdsma said it nicely. He literally said to make the desirable feasible. That's the point. I make a comparison in other areas: you have people with principles and people with ideals. I count myself among the people with ideals and leave the whole to yourself to which group you count yourself. What's the difference? People with ideals have an ideal. I think the ideal of all of us is the same. We give everyone in the world the freedom, democracy, prosperity and all the rights we have here, everyone in the world. But you won't get there at once. Sometimes you have to take small steps. A small step, a feasible step, I think is a victory. That is a step towards my ideal. That's good news. But if you see the highest attainable as a principle, then with a feasible step you actually do violence to your principle. It makes me feel uncomfortable, doesn't it? You sometimes notice how we deal with countries and how we debate each other. The portee of my article and, in a broader sense, the portee of how I stand in politics is: we go for our ideals, but we realize that small steps are on the road to ideal victories, are a good step forward and that you should not see that as a principle of violence. Otherwise you will not only make it much harder for yourself, but you will also achieve little and eventually a certain acidification can occur. We have to stop that from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u27	I fully agree with this Minister. We don't own the world. Nor can we decide for other peoples which leaders they choose. Indeed, I wish we could achieve world peace very quickly, but we still need a few steps to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u28	A lot, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u29	But now it's very concrete. The Minister says we have to take practical steps. The Minister wants to regulate the flow of refugees. Does that mean that the Minister is prepared to give a bag of money to wrong regimes or, more specifically, to cooperate in, for example, sending refugees back to Libya, where they end up in torture prisons and where people are being traded for $800, as we saw yesterday on one of the foreign channels?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u30	No, it doesn't mean that. Yesterday, for example, Mr Van Ojik asked: what is that, first stability and then steps? You first need stability and a certain foundation to be able to take steps. If you think that there is a stable situation in Libya at the moment to which your refugees are going to be able to return to it in the context of migration: no, that will not be the case. It also contradicts everything we have signed up for. So no bags of money go there and no refugees go back there either, because there's just no such foundation as you should have. On that basis you try, even in countries where it is really far from good. I worked out Egypt in that article. You start with something far behind and from there you try to make things better. You'd have to be talking. Because every time you come in, you actually say "what you're doing is all wrong," they think at some point: whatever, we have them again and we don't listen to them. You have to avoid that aspect. They must take you seriously so that the message, which must also be uncomfortable, is received. You just have to point out things that aren't right. One of the first things I've done towards Egypt is appeal to them to the fact that they've locked up a human rights activist. That's part of it. But that's only effective if you have a relationship that makes them take it from you. If you only address regimes to their bad behavior, that reception mode will be over at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u31	Clear. So no bags of money to dictators and no sending people back to a country like Libya. However, we are working on this through the EU. As you know, the EU mission Sophia is training the Libyan Coast Guard to get refugees out of the sea to send them back to Libya, to torture, to that slave trade. What does the Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u32	When building a foundation, you also need to ensure that there is a coastguard, for example. One of the things that is very important is that Libya is once again a member of the European Union. I believe that we now have four governments and some other separate groups which are developing stability and a government apparatus. That includes a coast guard. What a coastguard does is save people at sea, people in boats, boats sinking and then bringing them ashore. That's the job of a coastguard, and that's what they do in Libya. That's another thing, too. That's the other side and we shouldn't run away from that. The system that was created at some point is that off the coast of Libya, even in coastal waters, all NGOs were taking refugees, all of which were brought directly to Europe. Then you get a very unpleasant situation, because that's kind of promoting a flow of refugees: people who are going to take risks that you shouldn't want. Because those people are in those camps in Libya, too. And those camps in Libya, I don't have a good word for that. They're wrong in every essence. But there's nothing wrong with training a Coast Guard. This is part of supporting the country and ensuring that people who end up in the sea are saved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u33	A very brief final remark, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u34	Then the Minister is ignoring the practice. I quote UN Chief Zeid Ra'ad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u35	That is not a short closing remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u36	Says it's one big torture camp for refugees, that it's inhumane and an insult to humanity's conscience. The EU is indeed sending refugees back there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u37	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u38	Shouldn't that situation be improved before you continue to support these practices?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mrs Karabulut, we are doing an interruption in two with a brief closing remark afterwards. May I remind Members of that, please. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u40	The EU is not sending anyone back to Libya. Yeah, helping train the Coast Guard, and the Coast Guard pulls people out of the sea and brings them ashore. It happens. We agree on these camps. I don't have a good word for that. But it is not the case that the EU is sending people back to those camps. We should not allow that image to exist here, because that is simply not true at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u41	I would like to return to what is desirable and feasible, because of course we discussed this yesterday. I like what the Minister says about that. In the speech I quoted yesterday, he may have gone on his Frisian side, that can be quite briefly. In that it seemed very bad as if it was feasible also that which you should bet on, while I hear him now saying that you should bet on the desirable and that it may be that you come to the feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u42	You always want to achieve the desirable, but that doesn't mean you always want to bet on the desirable. When you make the desirable effort and that makes the starting point of the discussion, you sometimes do not get to the feasible. So you're gonna have to make a proper assessment. Maybe a little comparison. One of the reasons for the article was a discussion that was then taking place in the Chamber about homo-emancipation in Uganda. I say it a little bit charged, always dangerous from this side, but it also helps to clarify a discussion, but there was an image that we in Uganda had to carry out the current Dutch freedoms and that Uganda should do it this way. I hope we get there at some point in Uganda. In Uganda, homophiles and lesbians are still simply murdered. If you are going to explain Dutch practice in such a country, the gap is so big that there is no reception for the message. That's what I'm talking about by putting it there. It has to improve there. It needs to normalize. But if you go for the desirable right away, you have a chance of getting a disconnect and not achieving anything. And I would like us to achieve something, because this too is a disgrace. There's gotta be some work to do. In steps, and those steps are never big enough, but it's better than not hooking up and doing nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u43	I'm not at all comfortable with it. I also understand that for the time being there can be no gay pride in the streets of Kampala. The activists I know there say the same thing. Well, even better, there is, I hear behind me. Can you check it out? The universality of people's right to make their own choices must remain paramount, mustn't it? Surely that has nothing to do with feasible and desirable? There's a little bit of my concern. That forms of expression are different, that a tempo is different, alla, perhaps we can imagine something. But the principle that you should be able to be who you are, isn't that the starting point and the desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u44	Sure. There's no discussion about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u45	A final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u46	I am going to follow the Minister carefully on this, because I feel that we could not agree entirely, but perhaps also a little less difference of opinion than he thought at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u47	I don't think it's too bad. I think we are very much in agreement. Let me see it as my job to take Mrs Ploumen on that path over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u48	My point is not so much desirable and feasible. There is a certain logic that one cannot do without the other and that one must always pursue a realistic foreign policy. No one is in favour of unrealistic foreign policy. At least, I've never heard anyone argue for that. So I believe all of that. I have read Mr Zijlstra's article on realistic foreign policy. I think it's a very nice piece, but there's a big mistake, to my taste. That is not realistic or unrealistic, but in the perseverance of our interventions he is advocating. He says: we must first ensure stability, and then we can talk about human rights, for example. That's what he says we should do, because we haven't always done that; look at the Arab Spring. My point is, it's exactly the other way around. We have been aiming for stability in the Arab world for far too long and far too little on human rights. That's what's escalated the case over the last ten years. I would ask the Minister to explain that again. So I am not talking about realistic or unrealistic, because I believe all of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u49	Very good question. Let me start with the second part, because that is essential. Mr Van Ojik says that we have been aiming for stability there all the time and that we have therefore ended up in the situation as it is. That's true. Nor do I say: aim for stability and stay on that stability. People will want more freedom. People want more democracy. People want prosperity. I share Mr Van Ojik's analysis. If you maintain that status quo continuously, if you sit on it, and it's human rights-technically wrong, it's going to derail at some point. We share that. That's why you have to take the steps I describe after the comma in the article. Then you must use economic, diplomatic and all other channels to allow those countries to take those steps. Otherwise, it's going the wrong way. But if you have a situation with a country that you don't have a good connection with, which you're not good at dialogue with, then you don't get there. The essence of what I'm saying is: first you have to build that foundation so that you can engage in that conversation and dialogue, and lay the fertile soil where that seed is to grow. But then you have to start planting the seed and watering it. I agree with Mr Van Ojik that you will end up in misery if you do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u50	So if you listen carefully to the minister, you should actually say, at least at the same time. I do not want to make it a faint word game, but I think this is really very important for what we can expect from this minister and this cabinet over the next few years. If you say that we are going to ensure stability in a country first and then talk about human rights, then you run the risk of deteriorating the human rights situation in such a way that the people rise up. Because that's what happened in the Arab world. It was not the Western countries who suddenly said to those dictators: and now you must leave! No, it was the people who said that and then went to support the West and then... Well, the rest is history, let's say in good Dutch. So you can't first strive for stability before you strive for human rights. It leads to exactly the opposite of what you want to achieve. That's my point. That's what I'm telling the Minister. I'm not suggesting he's never thought about it, but I really hope he wants to think about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u51	Finally, we come to the second point that I have just mentioned to Mr Van Ojik. If you stick to a kind of stability and issues such as human rights and other issues, how do you ensure that there is also a certain development of prosperity? It is about human rights in the broadest sense: democracy, freedom, being yourself, but also a piece of well-being and prosperity. If you do not step into that, if you have a status quo, then the Dutch expression is: standstill is decline. So, yeah, you're gonna have to bet on this. That's what I'm saying in that article. I understand what Mr Van Ojik is saying. It is always a delicate balance: is it one before the other? You must have a platform to be talking to a country. I discussed the situation in Egypt, where the entire trade had just exploded and General Al-Sisi had taken over. Then you'd better get back to talking to the government. But then you have to appeal to the regime again, that is one of the first things I have done about the fact that human rights are really not doing well at the moment and that steps need to be taken. In my view, we do not really differ on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u52	Mr Van Ojik's point is correct, so let us take the test straight away. One of the countries with which the Netherlands traditionally has a good relationship is Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u53	I saw him coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u54	Yeah, it's surprising, isn't it? Recently, however, Israeli and Palestinian human rights organisations have been calling increasingly loudly, especially after statements made by Israeli government leaders. For example, Mr Katz said that activists of the international BDS movement should be targeted with the help of Israeli intelligence services. Then we have another gentleman who indicates that Palestine activists will pay a price. Is the Minister prepared to condemn these statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u55	At least they sound condemnable to me. We don't disagree on that very quickly. And we have seen it in the Netherlands. My dear colleague, Mr Kaag, was put away in a few columns on inaccuracies in a way that really could not be done. Moreover, I believe that the Israeli embassy has intervened in this by pointing out that Mrs Kaag is also seen in Israel as having good ties on both sides. That shows what you're saying: if that kind of noise comes, it's not okay. I'm gonna distance myself from that, too, immediately. But it is also not the case that Israel does not listen to that, because Mrs Kaag immediately intervened by the Israeli embassy. That's the other side of the story. Whether it is Israel or the Palestinians: if people go over the line, we will not hesitate to say anything about it. You can often say things like that to friends, but that also applies to the other side, because things happen on the Palestinian side. The General Reviews adopted a motion on international bodies. There would be many cases against Israel. You can find some of that. In both cases, we believe that it would be extremely helpful if parties did not make such statements and tried to find a two-state solution and thus a sustainable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u56	That is a valid point. It is then found that activists in the Netherlands are currently experiencing threats and nuisances in carrying out their work. In the past, we've had such a situation. Nadia Kiswanson is a well-known example of this. If these matters are structural, is the Minister prepared to watch out for the protection of these people who are committed to the cause?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u57	You should always be careful not to say this or that on the basis of casuism. It's about the general line. Mr Sjoerdsma asked whether we would continue to support organisations that work both on the Israeli side and on the Palestinian side for human rights. The answer is yes. We'll always weigh that. When groups cross the line, we intervene. Mr Van der Staaij has asked for this. We've had a women's organization. I've just lost the exact name... which was really out of line. Then it stops. We always will, on both sides and without respect for the person.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u58	That's a comforting answer. I am also familiar with that situation. That is where they crossed the line. But we shouldn't pretend that all organizations would want the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u59	No. Mr Kuzu said yesterday: criticism of Israel is not equal to anti-Semitism. I agree with him. You may disagree with criticism; then we go back to yesterday's discussion with Mrs Karabulut. Sometimes you can disagree on cases, but criticism must be possible. Criticism is not equal to anti-Semitism. That is something that has been rightly said. That's not going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u60	I didn't want to participate fully in the text-exegesis "wishful" versus "feasible"...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u61	Still, I feel a "but" coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u62	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u63	"At the same time," said Van der Steur.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u64	Exactly. This Minister had also warned against this. There doesn't have to be a "but" at all; there's going to be an "and." The minister said, "I'm willing to talk to everyone." I think that is a very important starting point. As a diplomat, I have experienced that the desirable was not feasible, for example in Uruzgan, because we, as diplomats, were not allowed to talk to certain warlords. My specific question is this: if this minister says so, does that also apply to his people? Can they talk to everyone from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u65	The starting point is that you need to talk to all relevant parties, always keeping an eye on the force field being properly controlled. It must make sense to do so. Let me give you an example. We were just talking about the Israeli-Palestinian issue. You need to keep talking to both sides. But Hamas is there. At the moment Hamas is characterized as a terrorist organization. We are not talking to terrorist organisations; we are very clear about that. That's not gonna change. But if Hamas is going to behave at some point towards the requirements of the Quartet and let go of those kinds of principles, then of course you have to talk to them. Then don't wait till you're last, let me put it this way. But right now? No. I feel what Mr Sjoerdsma means. If there is movement at some point and you think "we can make meters here," then you shouldn't be too afraid of that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u66	That sounds pretty good to me. I will be the last to argue that we should talk to all kinds of terrorist organisations on a stand-by basis. Sometimes that doesn't make any sense. Take the case of ISIS alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u67	I don't even know who I should be talking to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u68	Fight, I'd say. This is such a threat, there is no possible movement in it. The Minister responded to what Mr Ten Broeke said: I do not really hear a change in the way it was before. Then this stays a bit the way it is. The Dutch diplomats are not allowed to talk to players like Hamas at the moment, they are not allowed to talk to a player in Lebanon like Hezbollah. That's not gonna happen. Of course, I am not asking because I am such a fan of these organisations, but I do notice that it is a handicap in the case of Lebanon that there should not be any talk with that party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u69	For me, the dividing line is clear. Terrorist organizations: no. And for other organisations, we basically want to talk to them. Mr Ten Broeke said I should shake the most bloody hand. I don't do the most bloody ones, because that's what I think terrorist organizations are, but the other categories are. But that's where the border lies. We need to be clear about that, too. Mr. Chairman. In fact, I can summarize it as follows, and before that I go back to Mrs Ploumen, who said at some point: stand for the interests of the Netherlands, because then you also do the good for the people in the rest of the world. I thought that was a nice statement in the discussion in this block on human rights. That wasn't supposed to be entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u70	I understand from the Minister that this is the end of the human rights block?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u71	I will be on the Human Rights Fund, but I will be on the article and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u72	Okay, then maybe this is the time to ask a question. Yesterday I made proposals on how women's rights can be at the heart of membership of the Netherlands in the UN Security Council. The Minister replied in writing. Thank you, although the answers disappointed me very much. The Minister does not write about proposing thematic sanctions, because "these are poorly achievable and less effective." It doesn't say why it would be unfeasible and less effective. I would like to remind the Minister that the Secretary-General of the United Nations, an experienced diplomat nonetheless, is calling on the members of the Security Council to see if you can set up such a thematic sanction regime on violence against women. So...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u73	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u74	What is the Minister's view that it is "uneffective and unfeasible" if the Secretary-General of the United Nations sees bread in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u75	We have one thematic sanction policy in the Security Council. But we're talking about the Security Council. We also have the UN in a broader sense, with human rights committees. The Security Council is about security. Everything that happens there is related to security. We have one thematic sanction policy, and that was quite a fight, namely terrorism, which has to do with conflict situations and the like. We have put it mildly, but we do not think it is feasible because it does not relate well to what can be done in terms of thematic sanctions in the Security Council. I am not talking about what can be done on the Human Rights Committee; I think that is what Mr Guterres was talking about. What can be done is even more effective, and I am very willing to do so. I share the point made by Mrs Ploumen. I hope that has also emerged from the answer: violence against women is a major problem in the world. It has rightly been said that this is underexposed. When we bring the aspect of violence against women into it every time we talk about statements, conflict situations, sanction regimes and other matters, we believe that you have a wider range and it is more effective. And that's what I said: we'd like to do that. It seemed like a handout to me, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u76	Wait a minute. So now the Minister says: what is desirable, we do not consider it feasible and so we are not getting started. That is quite contrary to what he has just said, namely that the desirable must be something to strive for. I am simply not convinced that, if the Secretary-General of the United Nations proposes that the Security Council should look into this matter, that would not be feasible. I can imagine it's complicated, and it's gonna take you a long time, with bumps, opponents and everything that goes with it. But I really hope that on all these points it is not going to be the Minister's commitment to conclude that it is not feasible, because then I am still awake and I am very worried.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u77	Well, Mrs Ploumen shouldn't lie awake, I think. That's bad for health, too. In my view, I have just made it very clear that what is necessary here is possible. I'd go for it, too. Our assessment is that this will achieve more than if you fight for a sanctioning regime that was already very difficult to achieve in the case of terrorism. Then you fight that way, while you can do more on another route. I think this is about the case. Right? Is it not the fact that we want to try to get much more attention to violence against women? If, in our opinion, it is more effective to do so by inserting it into a number of other sanction regimes, then frankly, I think it is right that you should go for the desirable, to go back to that semantic discussion. Then we'll go for the case. We are not going for the fact that it has to be a specific sanction regime. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, To be honest, I don't think it's going to be as good as a kind of political discussion here, as if we weren't going for the cause. If it is a problem that it is not a separate sanction regime, if that is the stone of offence, then I say no. Then we really need to take a look at the case. You want us to pay as much attention as possible to violence against women. That's how we do it. But let us go for the matter and not for a little political discussion about whether it should have a particular label. I think that goes for what is feasible and not for what is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u78	A short closing sentence, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u79	It is, of course, a good thing that the Minister is committed to this. I mean that sincerely. But it would have been an excellent opportunity to use such a thematic sanction regime as a member of the Security Council. I very much agree with what the Minister says about the breadth; thank you for that too. You can always do that, even if you're more in the wings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u80	Mrs Ploumen, this is not one short sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u81	The last word: but then make use of the year in which we sit at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u82	That's a lot of words. I'm just as strict here, because otherwise we'll go all the way until tomorrow morning. I really want the third comment to be a short closing sentence. I'm still hearing explanations that I don't think were the deal. A brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u83	In conclusion, as a minister, I would really like to go for the matter that I share, and not for the specific label, because I find that subordinate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u84	What is desirable and feasible, we will, of course, see. We're gonna see what the minister's bet on over the next few years. I have every confidence in that. We have also reached a coalition agreement for this. We actually started this round with a field of tension: is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now primarily for the Dutch interest, or do we also have a separate part of human rights? I thought we concluded well, but in his last sentence the Minister just said again that the principle of human rights is also for the Dutch interest. Can I ask the Foreign Minister what he thinks of Article 90 of the Constitution, which is not all about Dutch interests, but also about strengthening the international legal order? Isn't that a clear mission to every government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u85	I do not know what Mr Voordewind is referring to. He says I seem to have done something about that, but it's very difficult to answer if I don't know what he means. Let me put it this way: if it has already happened, then that was not the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u86	Then I am back to the previous conclusion and I can now use the second period instead of the third period to repeat that conclusion. I understand from the Minister's words that we are both taking the Dutch interest first and strengthening the rule of law and human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u87	We have signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We support that. Mrs Karabulut asked that explicitly. I've already answered that. It's extremely clear. It's not just about the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u88	We have already talked about human rights and its importance. In the first instance, we have also indicated the importance of Article 18 of the Declaration of Human Rights. I understand from the Minister's reaction that he's still coming up on this. Shall I hold off on my interruption and wait for that piece first, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u89	That is the next point. We were done discussing feasible and desirable, at least that is what I thought. Then we will go to a number of other questions that have been asked about the Human Rights Fund. Mr Van Helvert, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voordewind all asked whether the Human Rights Fund could pay particular attention to Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which deals with religious freedom. Mr Ten Broeke also mentioned religious freedom, as well as journalists, lhbti and human rights fighters. Mr Sjoerdsma did the same, asking for extra attention for journalists. This is a difficult point, because the government agreement says that the Human Rights Fund is being raised. But in the financial package leaflet, which says "the financial package leaflet is leading," the Human Rights Fund says: €0. So you come into the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u90	I hear in the room "upstairs table!" Screaming. How can the Minister get himself into such a mess!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u91	No. In the end, it says: within the budget. This means that an increase will be at the expense of other things. I hear wishes from the Chamber. Some fall within the fund. That's good. Mr Van Ojik wants to increase the fund, for example for people who are committed to nature, landscape conservation and climate. If it is all right with you, I will look at the Spring paper to see how I can respond to these wishes. Then I will also look at where there is room within the budget to raise the fund. But in view of the fact that additional resources have not already been made available in the coalition agreement, I will have to look for them within the budget. That will be at the expense of something else. But I'll be forgiven. I haven't done that in 14 days. I would like to say to the Chamber that we are going to make that movement within the Human Rights Fund. I'm also gonna look for an increase. I am not going to say that that is 3 million, as Mr Van Ojik asked in an amendment. To be honest, I do not know whether that amendment is still there. Yeah, that's how I understand about him. I'm gonna say they're covered. If we come up against the various priorities that lie here and have to push them a little, then I want to put them down to the Spring paper. But I also want to do a bit of managing expectations, because we don't have infinite resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u92	The amendment, which the Minister has fortunately already taken on board, not only serves a very good purpose, but is also realistic in its coverage. That fits in well with the earlier suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u93	Those are the worst!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u94	I am making a very concrete suggestion on the basis of a report which the Court of Auditors recently sent out. This showed that the Ministry's revenues from consular services, so to speak, are systematically overestimated. That's a very good game, from which you could make another 3 million. That is another suggestion to take a closer look at the cover. I can help the Minister with his realistic foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u95	I am always open to good ideas, especially when Mr Van Ojik brings them up, because he also knows a thing or two about them. It's got to fit into the broader picture I'm giving you. There is nothing in the coalition agreement, but it says that the Human Rights Fund is being increased. So it has to be within the budget. So that's what I'm gonna look for. I also look closely at sources of coverage. But your amendment, then, is in fact a three-million-dollar move within the budget to one specific item. I don't want to. There are several wishes: religious freedom, journalists, lhbti, human rights fighters, conservationists and climate activists. I want to look at the whole thing. I don't want to say, there's $3 million going to that one post. I would like to respond as much as possible to the various wishes expressed in the Chamber and not to record them exactly in this way. However, we are heading in the direction indicated, and I accept the post in gratitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u96	That is very good, but perhaps I should remind the Minister that this budgetary treatment is precisely intended to table amendments and then see if we can move a little. The Minister says: we can't actually get into that right now. But this whole debate is, at least originally, meant to do so within the budget...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u97	Within the budget, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u98	... or from other means at our disposal, such as those systematically underestimated consular income from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's our core business today. That 3 million is ahead of an amendment. I'd like to hear from the Minister, perhaps not now but soon, if he can accommodate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u99	Look, I can't and won't do anything about the Chamber's budget law. And that is what Mr Van Ojik is referring to. I gave an appreciation of his amendment. That's what I do. I give my appreciation. In the context of this budget and the wishes I have heard, I want to give substance to the breadth of the wishes. That is an appreciation of Mr Van Ojik's amendment. If the House votes in favour of an amendment by a majority, who am I, as Minister, to rise up against it? I'm just giving my appreciation. I wouldn't dare go into budget law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u100	Then my question actually fit better in the previous block. I'm just gonna set it up now. We also talked about what's new. What's this minister gonna do new? New in the coalition agreement compared to the last time are the examples mentioned in Article 18, on freedom of thought, conscience and faith. The examples put at the main table in the coalition agreement include Christians. The CDA is very pleased that Christians are mentioned, because at the moment on this earth it is also the largest group of people being persecuted for his beliefs. It is really new that this is mentioned very clearly. Maybe the Minister can briefly explain how he's going to fill that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u101	It is certainly mentioned in the coalition agreement. By the way, honour who deserves credit: Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voordewind have, in recent years, ensured every year by amendment that money is available in the Human Rights Fund for this group. We have now only written it down in advance in the coalition agreement. That's good. That's what we're gonna do. It is new in the coalition agreement, but it is not a new policy, because we have done it in recent years at the intercession of a number of parties here. We will certainly continue to do so. These are groups that are cornered. But during the interrupting debate that Mr Van Helvert had with Mrs Ploumen yesterday, I also noted that there is a broad wish in the Chamber, including at the CDA, to talk about religious freedom in the broad sense. So we should not make religious freedom in a narrow sense, so only for Christians. Christians form a group that is really in a tight spot in parts of the world. That is what we are going to pay close attention to. That's what needs to be done. I have heard Mr Van der Staaij say, and I understand that Christians look at Europe in the sense of: what do you do for us? In some parts of the world there is less attention to religious freedom and then we do something not only for Christians, but for everyone, they say. So can we also keep an eye on the Christians? That's how I see it. We have to stand up for that. For the Netherlands, however, universal human rights are truly universal. So if the Rohingya are in trouble, we're gonna help them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u102	Absolutely, that's very good, too. We also want to help as many people as possible. That is why it is right that we should also name the largest group, the Christians. You can help most people with that right away. While 600,000 Rohingya fled, who were discriminated against, threatened and killed, there are 3.5 million Christians in that same country. So it's very good that we're taking everyone with us. I call this so specific because I think that in recent years the largest group has not been mentioned or hardly has been mentioned. It's kind of like the negative shape. Is there a positive? The law of inhibiting head start. It's such a big group that you should actually apologize when you mention that Christians are being prosecuted. Then you see people jump up and say: yes, but the ltbs, what about the Rohingya? That's okay, because we think it's important. They're equally important, but the other way around, you don't actually see that happening. When someone pleads for ltbs, everyone says, "Good!" And that's good, but that's exactly why I want to name the largest group, because in that largest group there are a lot of them. That is not always the case. That is why I am asking a specific question. If we go back to the Dutch representation at the United Nations in New York next year and have another fantastic tour, we will talk to women who are in difficult situations and with their representatives. Then we also talk to lesbians and gays and their representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u103	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u104	Next time, because it is now clearly stated in the coalition agreement, do we see a representative of Christians who are in a tight spot? And is that representative going to update us on the Dutch commitment to the United Nations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u105	If there's such a project going on at the time, sure. If Dutch Members of Parliament come to the United Nations, it is no purpose for a representative of a Christian group to tell them what our commitment is. For us, what is important is what has happened in recent years in the wake of the SGP, the Christian Union and the CDA, I will not forget. We will continue to do so in the years to come. It's a good thing it's been appointed. It's a group that's in trouble. We're not running away from that. I know what you're saying. We have to be careful not to talk about the group because it's so big. No, we should just talk about it, too. But in the end, I stand for the whole policy in a broad sense. In all honesty, I say that I have been in a situation for months before that, that if one group was mentioned, another group would spontaneously oppose it. You can see that in the coalition agreement, I have the impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u106	I also appreciate the commitment to vulnerable groups. When it comes to Christians who are in trouble, we must not shy away from explicitly naming it. When it comes to other groups, we should also mention them, but not crampy always call them a whole line. It is clear for the Human Rights Fund, but can I also assume that these accents will be taken into account in the use of embassies in the strengthening of human rights and in the expansion of the postal network? For example, we have had pilots of religious freedom in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u107	As far as the postal network is concerned, I am certainly going to come up with a description of how we are going to spend the 10 million ascending to 40 million. Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Sjoerdsma asked for this. I would like to comment on the emphasis we have on both territorially and contentically. The government agreement clearly states that we want to improve services: 24/7 and the one-stop shop and the priorities of the AIV. That's where the accent is. Policy accents of the Netherlands are always translated into our embassies and consular representations. After all, it is Dutch policy and they form small pieces of the Netherlands abroad. It cannot be that they have a different opinion on religious freedom at once and have a different policy than we have before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u108	Can I therefore see the link between what is in the government agreement on extra attention within the Human Rights Fund? Does it make sense that this will also be translated into the embassy's deployment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u109	Yes, but with the remark that the Human Rights Fund is a piece of our policy. Our foreign policy and consular services are much wider. I'm tasting something in this question. I want to avoid creating a situation in which we can start measuring the additional amount of religious freedom that a consular post or an embassy has done. It's just part of the policy. We are going to pay even more attention to it than we have done in the past year. That will translate into how the embassies and consulates-general deal with it. Those are our pieces of the Netherlands abroad, and that is our policy. For the 40 million, there is a very clear line in the coalition agreement. It is intended for consular services, so the 24/7 and the one-stop shop. In certain areas, religious freedom is indeed one thing, for example in the Middle East. Then we'll put accents on it, but I'm not gonna make it a special post. Then you get a piece of money, and that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u110	I fully agree with that: no fragmentation of money. Now that a certain priority has been highlighted on this side of the Chamber, I cannot, of course, be left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u111	I'm getting a déjà vu feeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u112	I would just like to touch briefly on the Ihbti side, which is also mentioned in the government agreement and in the increase in the Human Rights Fund. I do not do that to get all kinds of commitments out of it immediately or to ask for an action plan immediately, but I would like to draw attention to two letters of the lhbti, namely the last two: the t and the i, i.e. the transgender persons and the intersex persons. Worldwide, these are the most vulnerable, the most threatened and the worst organised groups in this community. I would like to ask the Minister to look at whether the existing funds and structures could strengthen these two groups, the t's and the i's, a little more. I think they need it badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u113	I have already dealt with this in the written reply. I recognize the balance in the discussion. I recognize the point. Mr Sjoerdsma is right. The whole group lhbti is in the clamp and these two groups are in the clamp again. I'm willing to see where we can put accents there. That's that point. But I do now need to stress once again, also in the context of Mr Van Ojik's amendment and all the wishes in the Chamber, that the Human Rights Fund is not infinite. There are more things than the ones that are being mentioned now. That is why I really want to take a look at the balance sheet in the allocation of projects. We must be careful not to have so many individual wishes from different parties that we are shredding too much and not becoming effective. Because it has to be effective. This is not a debinding condition, but it is a focus for all of us. Because I think we all want the policies on these different issues to be effective at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u114	I think the Minister is very clear when it comes to the fine print. I understand that, too. He just said no fragmentation. I'm fine with that. This is interesting because, in my view, this is precisely about combating fragmentation. Because these are often of those very tiny projects of organizations that cannot yet constipate ten thousand euros, I'll say, but which, through a large umbrella organisation, can certainly emerge and come to a community. Let me mention, for example, the size of the global fund in the field of intersex individuals. That's $300,000. That's the total size. I am not talking about huge amounts and huge efforts, but about whether we can give these growing, fragile movements a little support, of course, with these preconditions in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u115	I recognize that signal and we will try to implement it. Mr Sjoerdsma has understood me very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u116	What is happening here in the Chamber and what the Minister is going through is actually very illustrative. Everyone's gonna add things to it and ask for specials. Of course, that fund is not inexhaustible. That makes the need to make choices very great. Mr Sjoerdsma says in the list of the most vulnerable groups, there is even a q behind it, as I understand it, because there too there is a certain inexhaustibility in the case of the two most vulnerable groups which are indeed the transgenders and the intersexuals. Conversely, I think that is something you can say about Christians in the Middle East in terms of freedom of faith. Just look at the expulsion figures and the statistics. Then I think you shouldn't be too scared to just put your finger on that. This is not competition for suffering. This is simply about where we can use our limited euros as effectively as possible. I would like to call on this Minister not to be too afraid to make those choices simply. I think this coalition's preference is clear. Look at religious freedom, especially Christians in the Middle East. Also look at Ihbtiq, if I say it right, and at journalists for freedom of speech. As far as we're concerned, that's where the spearhead is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u117	I didn't just hear the debate right here. I am also quite familiar with the coalition agreement, so I am well aware of the preferences. I'm not afraid of making choices at all. Frankly, my words warn you that I will make choices. Because if I have to do all these little things, we won't be effective. So clear choices will simply have to be made. I hear what the Chamber says, but I also say one thing: if we are serious about the fact that the Human Rights Fund is about human rights in the broad sense of the word, then that should also be possible in the policy that the Ministry puts in place. Then it cannot be that we end up with the coalition's priorities alone, because human rights are broader than just the priorities set by a coalition. But it is clear that a minister who has been set up by a coalition is listening very well and will want to give maximum effect to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u118	And now you will listen to Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u119	That last part is what I wanted to hear. The coalition agreement rightly states that the Netherlands is committed to universal human rights. I can also name other groups, such as women. Just look at a number of countries in the Middle East. Women's rights are extremely important. I also mention human rights defenders and people who are committed to their immediate living environment. They'll be killed, killed. So I would like to emphasise the importance of universal human rights. I am very curious about the starting points and choices that this Minister will be presenting to us. I hope that we will then be able to discuss this together. Perhaps a further increase in the Human Rights Fund could be an idea to offer some more opportunities. But I would hate for us to go into sub-groups now and forget the whole of universal human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u120	I think that was the core of what I just said, so I agree. But let us be clear about a further increase in the fund that it has to be done within the budget, so it will be at the expense of something else. That's a weighting. You'll be taken into it, as it should be. They're choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u121	I will predict that there will soon be 1.4 billion to be distributed. Maybe there's something there for the Human Rights Fund. I think human rights defenders need that money much more than the Shells of this world. I think the Minister will agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u122	Well, I think that has just been the subject of a debate for a few hours. I don't think I should give any more ammo to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u123	I understand very well that the Minister says: I will have to make choices about the extension of funds in the future, and I am going to do so. We're looking forward to that. Then we're going to debate whether or not these are the right choices. But yesterday in the debate there was some uncertainty about the current subsidies. That was because our colleague from the VVD said under the heading 'new relevance': we are not going to grant all subsidies automatically anymore. He mentioned a number of organizations with names and names. That is a good thing for him, but it is good to know from the Minister whether, for example, he wants to delete the subsidy to SOMO, an organisation that was discussed at length this afternoon in the debate on dividend taxation. There are still a number of organisations. I am not going to repeat it, but I would like to know what the Minister thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u124	I don't go into specific organizations either, but I do do it generically. Mr Ten Broeke pointed out: not in OECD countries. That was his general point; he explained a number of organizations. I don't think that's going too far. In OECD countries there are organisations that spend the subsidy outside OECD countries. Just as important, and perhaps even more important: Turkey is an OECD country and in Turkey we also have some human rights organisations that could use some help. So I would not like to embrace such a general line as 'not in OECD countries', precisely because there are OECD countries where there really is still a lot to be done in the area of human rights. And then we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u125	Mr. Van Ojik, you want to make another comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u126	I can imagine that Mr Ten Broeke would like to say something, but I may be allowed to speak first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u127	Yes, I would first like to give the floor to Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u128	I am not dissatisfied with this answer; you will understand that. But in all seriousness, I think it's important that we don't change the rules halfway through the ride. A number of organisations now work with subsidies, sometimes in the Netherlands, sometimes in Germany, sometimes in the United States. Mr Ten Broeke mentioned the example of activities against the death penalty. I thought we couldn't just give the impression in a small debate: maybe we don't want that lifted finger anymore. I understand that we are simply doing this in accordance with normal frameworks and procedures, which are transparent and announced in time, and that we are not going to change things now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u129	I think my general line is clear. I once again agree with Mr Ten Broeke that you should always consider whether subsidies are being spent efficiently and that they are effective. This is not just the case within the OECD; it is the case more widely. I would also like to point out that Mr Van Ojik says that there may be an equally careless cessation of subsidies. Mr Van Ojik rightly pointed out to me that the Chamber has budget rights. If the Chamber decides in its wisdom to stop a subsidy, that is the right of the Chamber. That's how the process works. That can sometimes be a surprise for organizations. Sometimes it's a surprise for an organization to get a grant in a Chamber debate at once. You can sometimes ask yourself whether that is well prepared, but let us not go down that path; it is the right of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u130	A final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u131	I want the next general line. I am not going to say: not in OECD countries. I very much agree with Mr Ten Broeke that we need to look both inside and outside the OECD at whether subsidies are effective. Where it is ineffective, we must all, even if it is for a period, be prepared to give a warning and say: it will stop at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u132	Final sentence!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u133	I think it is also very important in the context of good governance that we do not gradually cast doubt on the continued existence of a subsidy if, on the basis of clear criteria, we have previously decided to grant it to each other. If that is not the case, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u134	As a minister, I will always indicate in the budget what our policy intentions are. By the way, we also generally have decent phasing-out paths for subsidies. I do not want the Chamber to be able to say in a debate: we really think another priority is more important, and that is why we are shifting money. That's what the Chamber is for in these kinds of cycles.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u135	Just so we're clear, though. Mr Van Ojik is doing what he tried yesterday: making a bit of a caricature of what I said about that. SOMO is an organization that I didn't fish out because I want to start a filippica against SOMO. I fished him out because, from my concerns about effectiveness and whether it meets the conditions, I was wondering if we should get out of there. It is the result of a reasoning. I'm not gonna start with SOMO. You were not there, Mr President, but yesterday Mr Van Ojik made it appear that there are GroenLinks-NGOs and VVD-NGOs and that all of these GroenLinksers would suddenly no longer be able to count on money and the people who like the VVD, yes. I gave him the example of an idea of GroenLinks supported by the VVD and then he didn't come back, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u136	...you do now!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u137	So that's bullshit. I hope I have corrected that. It's exactly what the Minister is saying. It is about effectiveness of our tax resources and effectiveness of commitment to the objectives of foreign policy. If I am in any doubt about that, I must be able to call it at any time from the budget law. I hope that Mr Van Ojik will do the same. Mr Van Ojik also talks about subsidies, such as those for large companies. He was just talking about it and then he tries to question its effectiveness during the ride. That's all we do here. Let me turn to the question of the OECD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u138	And your question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u139	My question to the Minister. I know I'm not getting right about these OECD countries for the time being. Fortunately, the number of countries has already been reduced and we will continue our fight. I asked a question yesterday about what I was concerned about, and I did not receive the answer in the written questions either. What is the percentage that falls in those OECD countries and how much of it goes to international NGOs? Maybe I can hear that in second term, because that was exactly the point I was trying to make. I have to conclude from the written reply we have seen before the budget that 10% is falling down in OECD countries. That does not necessarily have to be all wrong, because it can also be used in countries that meet our objectives. But I can't see over that and I'd like to see that. You can do that next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u140	3.5% is spent in the OECD countries, other than NGOs, which then bring it out. That percentage is actually being spent in those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u141	That is interesting, because that could be expenditure that I had already criticized in the past for fighting the death penalty in the United States. And that is a country with more lawyers fighting the death penalty per capita than anywhere else in the world. I think that is an issue that we should not do, because it does not help at all in the discussions with Putin. 3% is quite something! If that includes lhbt-campaigns in Germany, that's quite something. If that includes the pineapple campaigns in Costa Rica that we discussed with Mrs Ploumen yesterday, I think that is something. Then I want to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u142	But with that, we are sticking to the general policy line. I believe that this is part of the framework: is it effective and efficient? If that is within an OECD country that we are wondering why we are doing it right there, I will not hesitate to stop. But the general line is clear. I have just mentioned Turkey, because I want to be able to spend money there, even if there is a lot going on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u143	Mr President, if I may. Mr Ten Broeke says that I am making a caricature of his position just like yesterday. But he's now proving exactly the point I wanted to make, because he calls organizations...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u144	We're not gonna take each other for a spin. We'll do that in second term. If you have a question, I'm sure you can trace that question back to the Minister in a very special way. I want questions to be put to the Minister in interruptions and not to Mr Ten Broeke. You invited him. Then he went on you and now you're going on him again. That's not how we do it! I'd like a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u145	I'll go to the bathroom!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u146	In any case, we can suspend for a while if we have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u147	We can do that in a minute. I heard the hint. Mr. Van Ojik, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u148	If there is any doubt about the effectiveness or efficiency of certain subsidies, then they should be discussed here. I can only hear Mr Ten Broeke say: 'I don't like what that club does' and 'I don't think it is necessary for American NGOs to campaign against the death penalty, because there are so many good lawyers'. He literally said that. In doing so, he gives an assessment of the content of a given subsidy. You cannot do that halfway through the journey, and I would like to confirm this to the Minister, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u149	I am going to do it this way: the Minister responds to this and then I will give Mr Ten Broeke a brief opportunity to respond to it. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u150	My answer won't be very different. My general line is clear: if it is not efficient and not effective, then we can also intervene during the subsidy period. But when it comes to assessing it, it comes to making a good assessment of the content. As far as the death penalty in America or in any country is concerned, we agree with that; we are not against the death penalty for nothing, I think all the parties in this house. Then it could be a justified use. But we also need to look carefully at whether it works properly or not. We may well be able to come to terms with what Mr Ten Broeke is saying, but that is not the outcome of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u151	I will look at the objectives of our foreign policy and then look at the conditions of grant. I have done so, and I have done so consistently, with every budget, for years. Then I question this spending, for example because it has no effect; I refer to the IBT rights in Germany. It is absolutely within the terms of reference of every representative of the people, isn't it? That's what I'm doing here. My conclusion is that it would be better to spend it elsewhere. We have very scarce resources, especially in the case of foreign affairs. It's almost nothing. There's been talk around here for a long time. There are other budgets where billions go over the table. Then I also want this little bit of money to be well spent. That's what I'm here for. SOMO might be nice. There's 1.8 million in it. That is already more than half of the money that Mr Van Ojik is seeking for his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u153	So who knows if he knows how to use it himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u154	In order to remove all the confusion and noise that has arisen, can the Minister rule out the possibility that the SOMO grant will be stopped at the moment? I am asking this because SOMO is investigating one of the main causes of conflict and misery in the world, namely inequality, the fact that multinationals are taking hundreds of millions away from poor countries, while on the other hand we have development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u155	There are no plans to do that with me right now, let that be clear. Of course, I always look at what comes out of a debate in the Chamber. But let me come back to a point on which I agree with Mr Ten Broeke. If at some point at organizations, whatever I'm not going to say it's that or that at all, because then you might get noise, especially when I say it, it turns out that they're getting subsidies for certain purposes and spending that subsidy in a bad way, if it turns out that they're not efficient and not effective, I'll always try to see if it's better or if you have to stop. But that's not the issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u156	I think the Minister is extremely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u157	Let's try to keep that up!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u158	May I just point out to Members that we are now having the debate for an hour and a half? The Minister spoke for 18 minutes in his own speaking time. I would therefore like to invite the Minister to finish at least the block on human rights and the uncomfortable partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u159	It won't be me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u160	Then we're gonna ask the questions that could've been left lying there. I therefore propose that no further interruptions be made in this block. You finish this block and the Chamber will speak again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u161	I'm almost there, Mr. Chairman. In fact, there is only one real question left: Mrs Ploumen's question about Poland in the context of human rights. I've already gone into Yemen. If you stand there before human rights, you have been asked to do so. Oh, yeah! I gave a speech last week for all EU ambassadors. I have literally said that all countries must give full support to Frans Timmermans in his struggle to maintain civil rights, the rule of law, in Poland. The Dutch Government, including this minister, will continue to give him full support in this regard. He knows that, too. Today, moreover, the European Parliament has voted in favour of a resolution which takes another step under Article 7. The procedure has not yet started, but it was another step towards it. We do not hope that the European Commission will be forced to take that step. All efforts, including those of the Netherlands, are aimed at preventing it and pushing the situation in Poland in the right direction. But we are not excluding any means, and if it were to be discussed, we will support the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u162	Mrs. Ploumen. You came to the end of this block with this, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u163	I'm done with this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u164	That's what I thought I understood, which is why I dared to take the leap. Thank you to the Minister for this answer, because we share the concerns. After speaking with his Polish counterpart, extremist young people marched through the streets of Warsaw slogans about a pure-bred Europe et cetera, et cetera, all things that I simply do not want to say and do not want to hear. Is the Minister prepared to raise this objectionable phenomenon within Poland in the talks with his colleague? Of course, this point also has a connection with the rule of law and the attacks on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u165	It's a fair question. Mr Kuzu had also notified this for Question Time. These are, of course, practices that do not belong in Europe at all. The good news is that several members of the Polish cabinet have also expressed their disgust, and I thought this was a good development, and organisations have appealed to them to believe that it is really not possible for such slogans and banners to be tolerated. That's the good news. The bad news is that there were still cabinet members who condoned it. That is what we will continue to discuss. My first meeting was with my Polish colleague. We've talked quite extensively about that situation and the rule of law. I will continue to do so on other occasions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u166	I have presented two issues that directly concern human rights to the Minister. One is Morocco, the other is Turkey. To begin with, the President of Amnesty International has been detained for a very long time. Amnesty and other human rights organisations have called for the release of the President. Does the Minister support this call?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u167	Where human rights activists in the broad sense need help or support, we do so. That is at the heart of our policy, including the Human Rights Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u168	That's very nice. Does this mean that the Minister will bring this up politically, like the question of the peaceful demonstrators in the Rif, who are being arrested and where there is torture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u169	Let's finish the first point. That's always good, otherwise things are gonna get mixed up. The relationship with Turkey is tense, let me put it this way. Where we can draw attention to this issue in this tense relationship in the right way and with the right instruments, we do so. And there are more things, with journalists and human rights fighters in a broader sense. We try to do it in a dosed, balanced way, because if you had to do it all, you're doing it right now. So it requires some balance. But we're bringing these cases, yes, although we don't have an ambassador there right now. So we can't send an ambassador. Then there are questions about Morocco. I have already replied to all this in the written reply. We're following the lawsuit. We will. When I meet my Moroccan colleague, human rights are also part of the discussion. In my view, I have already made this clear in the reply. So, yeah, that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u170	You say if I run into my colleague. This is a case that's been going on for a while. The number of young people fleeing the area is increasing. That's what you see in the numbers. So I'd like the Minister to be a little more active.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u172	So don't wait until the first opportunity. Is the Minister prepared to contact his colleagues on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u173	In all honesty, we have quite a few countries where we call attention to human rights. And actually, you can indicate to any country: get in touch immediately to bring it in. Then this minister will be busy for a while. There may sometimes be opportunities. I will be at the EU-Africa Summit in Côte d'Ivoire in a week and a half. My colleague may be there. I'm not sure yet, but it could be. If I run into him, I'll do it. Then I'm not gonna walk around him with a bow, I'll say. But on the question of putting Morocco at the top of the agenda and making contact immediately, I say no. There are also other contacts, especially in an early period, with a United Nations Security Council that is coming. It means we're really getting certain things going. If it fits in as it would have been in Africa, I'll certainly do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u174	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u175	But I read it as if Mrs Karabulut said: the Minister's first is this. And then I say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u176	No, we're doing an interruption in two and a brief closing remark. This was the third time. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u177	Mr President, I hesitated for a moment, but I am still doing so on this block: the International Criminal Court. Mr Ten Broeke and I confessed yesterday our connection with the Criminal Court, but we also found that it is under pressure. The United States has never signed the Rome Statute and Burundi is getting out. I did not receive a reply to the written replies. I understand that he can't just do that right now aus einem Guss, but is the Minister prepared to make some sort of approach to ensure that the Criminal Court remains the important institution, respected worldwide, that it is and that it also fits The Hague as a city of peace and justice? The institute itself needs more defenders. Is the Minister prepared to be one of those defenders and how would he want to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u178	The latter has certainly been a pillar of our foreign policy in recent years. So it doesn't take any effort, yes, it does take some effort to admit it. This Minister will also work to get countries active and to keep them active within the framework of the International Criminal Court. The latter is an even greater task at the moment. Burundi has come out; you pointed that out. By the way, prosecution will take place because the acts were committed before they came out. Well, that's a good thing. We will continue to work for that. A plan of action? Well, I guess I'll have to start guessing what you mean by that. As if we could lay down some sort of plan that would suddenly make countries think differently about the Criminal Court. We are going to commit ourselves to this, but a plan of action sounds a little big to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u179	Mrs Ploumen is going to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u180	Mr President, I am doing this very briefly. What I am actually asking is whether the Minister is prepared to take a structured approach to other countries in order to sustain aid, obtain aid or prevent exit? Can he say a little more about how he'd like to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u181	On that question, I say no. It means that every time I talk to someone, I have to talk to them like some kind of embedded point about the Criminal Court. In my view, what I can promise is also what Mrs Ploumen probably means. The Criminal Court is in the Netherlands, and we have an interest in that. The Hague is an international city of law. If I have a bilat with a colleague or in a country we know there are things going on around the Criminal Court that need some attention, I will bring that up. Actually, that's already happening, but I'll keep doing it. But that's really case by case. If I come to Burundi now, I will certainly talk about it. It's just not in the pipeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u182	I understand. Can I ask the Minister if he will inform us of his assessment of this situation and what he has been able to do at some point in the middle of next year? I'd appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u183	Then you'll find yourself in such a plan of approach-like situation. The Criminal Court is an international body, it's in the Netherlands and that's why we think it's important. From our national role, we will address countries where necessary and necessary when it comes to the Criminal Court. But I'm not going to do some sort of "did you talk to them, then when and what's the outcome of the conversation" here. Then we're gonna set up a huge paperwork. I don't feel like it at all. I've just indicated what our commitment will be. He's gonna stay that way. But we're not gonna turn it into some kind of traffic light thing: what happened? I wouldn't think that's a good outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u184	Mrs Ploumen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u185	The minister doesn't know me very well, because I'm not waiting for paperwork and travel reports. I myself would also like him to be able to see his efforts and to share the results with us. I will leave the form to you for a moment, but look for a way to report to the House of Representatives of your efforts, so that we may also be able to discuss it with you and see how we can strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u186	Let me put it this way: if I think we have taken really good steps somewhere, I will probably not want to remember the Chamber. Then there's the mail network and consular. It's actually the most tangible part of foreign affairs. This is what the Dutch find abroad, such as the businesswoman, the holidaymaker, the employee and the employer. The people in Zimbabwe, like I said. Whether it's about asking for passports or passports lost or it's in trouble, here you can feel it. Over the last few years, we have paid tribute to my predecessors and to the department of the department of consular services. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Ten Broeke have both drawn a great deal of attention to this in recent years. Extra money has also been made available for it. That's important. We need to improve further. We're going to invest that $40 million. It is not the amount, Mr Van Helvert said that the Advisory Council rightly indicated International Questions, but I think we can do significant things with this. It also forces us to choose. Choices are always good. It also allows us to represent the interests of Dutch people even better, paying attention to this 24/7 service and to the one-stop shop. Mr Sjoerdsma asked for a number of dates. I mentioned it in writing. For example, we want to try to have this digital service really up and running by 2020. I would also like to say that it has been asked that next year the Chamber will be really informed about how we are going to use these posts. I can just imagine that the Chamber wants to know and has some ideas about it. I have already had an exchange of views with Mr Van der Staaij on religious freedom. Then that block is over, Mr. Chairman. Then we'll go to Iran and the Middle East. It's gonna take a little more time, I'm guessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u187	I suggest we suspend for two minutes. Then we move on to the third block, Middle East. Then we have another block of migration, then the block against terrorism, and finally disarmament and nuclear weapons. I'm gonna suspend for two minutes and then everyone can continue to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u188	I have another question about the last block, Mr President. You were just a little too fast for me. But I don't want to keep anyone off the humanitarian break, as we call it in the Defense Department. After that, we can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u189	Well, then you'd better start talking briefly if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u190	Mr Ten Broeke, rap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u191	The Minister knows me. It's gonna work. I may have caused a little confusion yesterday by talking about the issue of passports and the pilot. I would actually like to ask the Minister to come up with a concrete vision of the group of Dutch people who should actually apply for a passport worldwide. "Digital, unless" and "external service provider, unless," that's what's being discussed with the Foreign Office. That is actually what the visa regime is like now. I would like to see this, with commitment worldwide, as he has just mentioned, and also involving safe companies. I understand very well that that can still be very difficult at the moment, that there are huge safety concerns, but we have to try to take the lead in this. We should not allow ourselves to be guided by the fear that it will never be possible, because in the future it will be possible to deal with this in a more modern way, together with private companies, trusted third parties. Along those two tracks, if I can get that commitment, then I have the supplement to the written answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u192	The approach is to make it possible to provide services in a digital way, including on paper. And yes, one of the major technical challenges is security: cybersecurity, ensuring that data is secure and that it cannot be broken into. We need to maintain that balance, but the approach is maximum digitalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u193	Yes, and'maximum possible' is, as far as my group is concerned, to provide as much space independently as possible. The principle I have just mentioned, i.e. 'digital, unless' and not vice versa, must ultimately be the starting point for all travel documents, as it is now customary for visas to be issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u194	I hope that Mr Ten Broeke will forgive me for sticking to what I said, namely as much as possible. I've heard very well what his interpretation of that is. I also indicated what objections we should mitigate. There will have to be a balance somewhere. If we can end up with what Mr Ten Broeke says, that would be fantastic, but I am not going beyond what I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u195	I have indeed seen in the written reply that the digitisation of the applications will hopefully be completed by 2020. Hopefully safe, too, as the Minister says. That is, of course, a crucial precondition. I have two more questions that I do not know if the Minister can answer at this time. When it comes to the one-stop shop, it is of course crucial that this minister has power of perseverance towards other ministries. I also hope he feels that way in the Council of Ministers. That's actually my first question to him. My second question concerns the spread of Dutch people abroad in the coalition agreement. We have seen some beautiful things, when it comes to schools, when it comes to elections. Does this minister think that this will meet all the needs that the government could reasonably provide to Dutch people abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u196	If I said yes, I already know that there are undoubtedly things that, if they are not there now, could be improved at another time, so I am not going to say yes. We see it as our mission, and I think that is also the spirit of the coalition agreement, to try as much as possible to facilitate Dutch people abroad, so that they suffer as little as possible from the fact that they live abroad, and sometimes remotely. Onestopshop is part of that. This is not just about foreign affairs, such as passports. That's wider. I hear you very well. This means that other cabinet members must also be involved. That's always a challenge. The more departments are involved in written questions, the longer it takes for you to receive an answer. That won't be any different here. But I heard you right. If I get into trouble somewhere, I can always wink, and I think I will get support there. That's always good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u197	And before we all get into trouble, I'm gonna suspend this meeting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u198	We are on the third block: the Middle East. I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u199	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The Middle East, Iran, is a subject that always demands a lot of attention in this house. It is also a very complex region. I will address several points that have been made about Iran, the Middle East in general, the Middle East Peace Process and Israel-Palestine in particular. First, a few general notes, please. It is a neighbouring region of Europe. It is also one of the most unstable regions in the world with intense tensions. That really is an explosive cocktail. For example, we see a struggle for regional hegemony and spheres of influence. You can actually see that in the struggle between Sunnis and Shiites, Iran versus Saudi Arabia, including an arms race. This also translates into Lebanon, for example, where we have seen the situation of a Prime Minister who has resigned. We see assertive leaders in this region who want their geopolitical place back from the past, in Turkey, Iran but also in the Egypt of Al-Sisi. We see civil wars, some sort of proxy wars, where the regional superpowers fight their battle on a semi-stage but in all seriousness, as in Yemen, Libya and Syria. In doing so, we really need to be careful that Lebanon is not going to be the next stage. We see the lure of terrorism: ISIS, Al-Qaeda, Tahrir al-Sham, formerly Jabhat al-Nusra. We see a very young population with little economic perspective, no regional cooperation and water problems. We see states that are administratively failing and climate change, which also has its effects in that region. If you list all this, you won't be so happy. So it's also really a region that doesn't get so much attention in this house for no reason. Finally, there is the Middle East Peace Process, Israel-Palestine. I'll go into that in a minute. Fortunately, however, we also see sparks of hope, such as the return of the Palestinian Authority to border crossings. I say in all honesty: every day that comes with the fact that it lasts is a day more than I expected. In fact, we're already over it. That's just really good news. Democracy in Tunisia. Uh... It's just a search. There is a little more openness in Saudi Arabia: women are allowed to drive again. You've got to find the lights, too. And ISIS is almost defeated above ground. That doesn't mean they're gone, by the way. But also the nuclear deal with Iran. With the nuclear deal with Iran, I want to move on first. A lot of questions have been asked about that. For example, Mr Van Helvert asked: is that deal under pressure? Yeah, he's under pressure. The Americans have said they want sanctions again. President Trump says Iran doesn't stick to it. I have to say, on the basis of another question from Mr Van Helvert, whether they comply with it: yes, nine times it has been established that Iran adheres to the atomic deal. Mrs Karabulut said it in a somewhat cynical way: Mr Trump totally hated that deal; so did Mr Zijlstra, so he will agree with Mr Trump that it should stop. Well, no. In an earlier article I pointed out the bad aspects of this deal. My main argument was the ballistics weapons program: the missiles are not in it. That is also the central point of many criticisms that I have heard from the Chamber and from other countries. That is also the key point on which things are going a little bit wrong. That's not what I'm saying: I told you so. But that's the situation I was critical of. I therefore agree with everyone that we in Europe should start talking to Iran about those ballistic weapons programmes, about those missiles. But we have to make a divorce. After all, we have reached an agreement that is not part of it. You can find anything, but that's the situation. I said it clearly in an AO last week. That deal's here. That deal is the gift of the day. It would be much worse in the current situation to say "we stop" than in the then situation, because at that time there was no deal and it would have been better to bring it in. But we are where we are now. And from where we are now, it is much wiser for Europe to work to keep that deal going and to get rid of or minimize that ballistic weapons programme. At least we'll have to play on that. The Netherlands will work towards this at European level. I also discussed this with the High Representative Mogherini at the beginning of this week. That's just really hard. Mr Van Helvert appointed President Macron to impose sanctions. He asked if the Netherlands would join them if they didn't get on that missile program. This brings us to a delicate balance. In international traffic it is always good to move in the position of the other. If you want to get somewhere, you have to at least understand why the other person does what he does, at least you have to make an effort. The Iranians have made a deal to get rid of sanctions in exchange for shutting down their nuclear program. They're sticking to that deal. That's what the Atomic Agency is showing. We can say, "You get sanctions because you don't touch that missile program," but that wasn't part of the deal. If we want to move the Iranians to talk about the missile programme anyway, we will have to acknowledge that the deal as it stands now leads to the removal of sanctions. That it will be a very difficult and delicate game to bring in the rockets, everyone will understand. It doesn't help if we, like the Americans, are threatening sanctions, because then the Iranians are going to say: why do we have that deal anyway? They'll get out and we'll be worse off. The purpose of this cabinet at European level will be to keep that deal going. That means we're on our side and we're talking to the Iranians anyway to say, boys, a missile program like that isn't okay. We still want to talk about that, but you can't do that until you've shown yourself you're taking that deal seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u200	The Minister keeps a good story. I came back with the same impression of the trip to Iran. There are, of course, still a number of bottlenecks in terms of sanctions, which Iran is facing. This applies not only to Iran, but also to our business. I call the banking sanctions. I understand the minister doesn't want to grab the stick so much, but would he be open to the carrot? It is up to the Iranians to continue to attract trade. Why not leave the remaining sanctions in the air or reduce them even if they want to look seriously at phasing out their ballistic missile programme? Is that an option the Minister would like to look at?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u201	We have two types of sanctions. I'd like to get a divorce in there. We have human rights sanctions. Nothing is going to happen about that, because human rights are still not okay there, so we're not gonna lift any of that either. In addition, we have agreements under the nuclear deal, slowly reducing the specific sanctions. The role we now have is not so much to ensure that the banking regime goes off and that the sanctions are actually lifted by us, because the problem lies with the Americans. We must now make every effort to ensure that the Americans do not drop out so that this kind of thing can actually change. We can do one-sided things from Europe, but European companies will not act as long as the cross-border sanctions that apply to Iran from America are not lifted. That is why it is so important for the survival of that deal that the Americans remain on the table. Because if they fail, then the real relief of sanctions for Iran will be very minimal. Then for them the plus is the way to do it. Our efforts are aimed at the Americans, so that they remain on board so that sanctions can then be lifted, and at the Iranians, to ensure that they do not say at some point: we are done, greetings. We have to keep both sides on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u202	That's a thin line on which to balance. We are between the Americans and Iran. So it's the art and it requires tactical maneuvers to see if you can get on with both. The Americans may be threatening to impose additional sanctions if the ballistic missile programme continues, and we may be a little more reluctant to do so, because we are afraid that will put the rest of them in danger again. My point was this. Can we use the banking sector towards the Americans to get the Iranians to do something about that missile program?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u203	Here you come on the delicate game. In another discussion we talked about timeliness, but there is absolutely no indication of it here. Because we are actually talking about a kind of very complex right across. You have to prepare for that for a long time and do it all at once. Because the Iranians won't want to talk about that rocket program as long as they see the Americans coming in and the Americans might drop out and there's no sanction technically. The Americans will say: lifting sanctions, ammehula, because the rocket program. And Europe is trying to tie that up. The specific acceleration of a particular trajectory is only going to interfere with the process. So it is a very thin string over a very wide and deep ravine. And that is what Europe is still trying to overcome. The only thing I can say about such regimes as the banking regime is, of course, that part of those talks, because it is part of the sanctions. But I think it is not realistic now if we are going to move forward and hope that the Iranians will do something about the missiles, given that it can only be done with the help of the Americans. If we take that step, we're probably going to take more steps and hopefully come to something that can actually work. But it is very delicate and with absolutely no guarantee of success. And that is actually a sad observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u204	Shortly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u205	Finally. The Minister has our support if he really wants to increase the pressure. How he does that, he has his own room for manoeuvre. But for him to expose the missile program, he'll get our full support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u206	The Minister is quite right to say that it is very delicate. And it becomes even more delicate when you consider that because of the role in the Security Council next year, the Netherlands also has a responsibility to lead the Sanctions Committee. And then we are being looked at with extra eyes to see whether we are doing this fairly and whether we also see and want to acknowledge, which the American Government does not recognise at the moment, that Iran seems to be complying with the rules of the game that have been agreed under a deal that, unfortunately, is also inadequate as far as I am concerned. Because I agree with group leader Zijlstra, who says those ballistic missiles should have been there, but yes, that deal would never have come. So we're where we are now: we're dealing with that deal. It's gotta stay up. But in addition to the deal, sanctions are also possible, and they should also be possible when Iran does not comply with the Security Council resolutions already adopted. There are at least two resolutions in which those ballistic missiles are already mentioned. To the taste of my group, Iran is close to it or even over it. Iran must also be kept separate from that deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u207	Sure. I just made another link: we also have sanctions for human rights. You're looking at what sanctions are set up for. If we stick to it, we have to deliver the other side. Nuclear: nine times checked, nine times green light. When it comes to human rights, but also when it comes to other resolutions involving sanctions, we will look at them separately. Because it can't be that we say at some point: we want that deal to stick that we let everything go. No, there are different regimes for different reasons, and they will be applied differently. But it is now extremely precarious, so I also say to Mr Ten Broeke: if you are now threatening sanctions on the basis of the ballistic missile programme because of that other resolution, you are going to get in the way of this process; you must be careful with that. Eventually, we're gonna have to try and keep this deal going. As far as I am concerned, this means that the other side of the coin is that in the end you can actually work on those ballistic missile programmes. Because I think that is very necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u208	The Minister said so. If you are going to threaten sanctions now, then I think Mrs Karabulut correctly described in her first term: you are driving the reformers who are still in the hands of the conservatives. You're pulling out the robe under Rohani, who in my view deserves a little support. But what you can do is what led to this deal. These are sanctions which have gradually been stepped up, followed by a step-on-step system. So you don't have to threaten directly with it, but you can indicate what the milestons Iran has to meet outside the deal, which are related to those ballistic missiles, which can already go far beyond the direct threat Iran is experiencing. You can put that in the picture. There is also a plus, for example the banking regime that Mr Voordewind has just mentioned. Because it is necessary to make investments possible there. That is not happening because the Americans can actually simply veto it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u209	That's exactly where the dilemma lies. I agree with Mr Ten Broeke on this point from a to a. But if you put that structure down now, the Iranians will not disconnect it. They will say, "Listen, I was promised relief from sanctions. I do what I do. Then you can come here with a different sanction regime, but why should I move?" That's the precarious situation we're in. I agree. Mr Voordewind said the same thing, and Mr Ten Broeke says it now: if you can lighten that banking regime, you will lighten it for Iran, but you will have to appeal to them on ballistic missiles. But we know that movement one, enlightening the regime, will only happen if the Americans move. They're not gonna do that separately. So it's all connected. That's what makes it so complex. And so we really need to operate on stocking feet in this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u210	Can I suggest that walking on stocking feet can indeed happen with some kind of delay, as we did in the period preceding the deal? There's a plus and a minus. So there's also a carrot. The suggestion that I would like to make, and which we have all heard in Iran, is that we could, for example, see if we can guarantee investment that companies are doing in the Netherlands. That's not happening right now. Investors benefit from this. The Minister could look into that or at least be briefed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u211	Because of these stocking feet, we want to see on all sides how we can move that process forward. That also applies to keeping that rocket program in the air; well, we don't keep it physically in the air, but it is a subject that needs to be dealt with. That's what I'm gonna do, just to make sure we still have a chance to get out of here. In fact, I would say to Mr Ten Broeke that a carrot can sometimes help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u212	That it is difficult and that one has to walk on stocking feet, I fully understand that. I think that's why we're discussing it here, because if things were easy, then we weren't talking about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u213	We'd have solved them by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u214	Yes. I understand that the Minister says: what Macron is proposing, I do not think that is so sensible. They made that deal in exchange for sanctions, and they might see sanctions, including for other things, in conjunction with that deal. But then the question is: how bad is it supposed to get? If Iran would only do tests with those missiles, that would be bad enough, of course, but they actually shoot them, if only from rebels in Yemen towards Saudi Arabia. At what point do you say, whether on stocking feet or not, that this is bad enough for us to come up with other sanctions? The Americans, for example, have imposed a sanction on companies involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u215	That whole process around the nuclear agreement with Iran, but also the extremely explosive state around the Persian Gulf, requires you to know things for sure. Mr Van Helvert referred to the Iranian missile on Riyadh, but we do not know at all whether it is an Iranian rocket. I've also seen all kinds of messages coming by, but I haven't seen any confirmation or any evidence that it's an Iranian missile. We know, for example, that in Yemen, before this conflict ignited at all, scuds were present that have been modernised. You know: the assumption is the mother of all fuck-ups peep. But we must avoid getting into it. Because if we assume that that rocket belongs to the Iranians and threatens it, when we don't even know for sure, then we might as well make accidents in a process that is so precarious. So, yeah, if that missile that was shot at Riyadh turns out to have been delivered by the Iranians, then they're doing a pretty bad job. Then they will also be addressed by Europe, because they will be heading in the wrong direction. But I want to prevent us from making statements here and possibly taking action on the basis that someone has said that the thing is from Iran. That someone had an interest in that too, because it was Saudi Arabia itself. Let us try to keep facts and images apart and build policies on what we know. And let's try to keep up this case, which is really explosive there, because if those two countries are really fighting each other instead of having a proxy war, then we have to get on our feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u216	Very nice. Thank you for this clear answer. The Minister is actually setting a limit: if we are sure of this, then that is a reason to say that there is something really bad going on right now. My question then is what we are doing at the moment to ensure that it comes from Iran or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u217	Sure. If Iran knowingly delivers a missile to the rebels and those shooting at Riyadh, that is a massive escalation of the conflict. That's how Saudi Arabia explained it immediately. But that was too short a turn, because it has not been established at all. In fact, in my opinion, the statement from that side has also led to it being sharpened. The Netherlands, Europe calls on both parties, on both sides of the Persian Gulf, to prevent this kind of escalation, not only in deed but also in word. Words can sometimes have a very important meaning in situations like this. We really have to try to avoid that. We will also say this to both sides in the talks there when I go that way: boys, this should not be, because the situation is already explosive enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u218	I very much agree with that. I must say that, before I went to Iran, I had some reserves, because of human rights and because of the restrictions that Iran imposes on women, for example. But I am glad that I have been there, because I have also seen another Iran: an Iran, a society that is fully developing and which is forcing change from below, whether the ayatollahs want it or not. My question to the Minister is as follows. I have heard many times: this deal is extremely important to us, because it ensures economic development and economic development is important for human rights. The reasoning is that if the Americans were to blow up this deal, that only the conservatives, the ayatollahs, would be playing into the hands of the ayatollahs, and that would also be a loss for us, because that would risk them working on a nuclear programme, and indeed the risks of conflict. Does the Minister share this analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u219	Yeah, I'll go with that. That is true for Iran. You also saw it when the deal was concluded and the promise was there that sanctions would be phased out slowly, with a view to economic progress, perspective, a piece of prosperity, the emergence of a middle class and thus eventually more freedom. That's the hope of the country, of the people. I'm not talking about the people in power. I'm talking about the people in power. If that hope disappears, the extremes win. This is seen not only in countries like Iran, but in all countries, including Western democracies. If hope disappears, the extremes win. That will be no different in Iran. That is why everything is aimed at keeping that hope really alive, so that that movement can eventually be made. By the way, we do not trust the Iranians in their blue or brown eyes, because the regime there is still not of a department that functions as we believe a democracy, a country, should do a legal order. But the observation that you have to look at what the driving force is and what that means, I share.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u220	Thank you. If there are any developments in the contacts with the Americans, could the Minister perhaps describe which way they are going? Of course, they're talking right now. Congress is busy there. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u221	What I can say is that I talked to Mrs Mogherini about it last Monday. Here too, it is important to show that Europe is united. It is the one who makes that very clear on behalf of all of us, and towards Iran and towards other interested parties, including the US. If I come to speak about this myself, I will, of course, do so, because we think it is very important. This is really an area in which we, as Europe, can prove that we can act together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u222	I'm going in on the rocket that was fired at Riyadh from Yemen. I saw a report in the media a few days ago saying that Lieutenant General Harrigian, who controls the Air Forces Central Command in Qatar, said in a news conference in Dubai: that rocket belonged to Iran, Iran's marks were on it. He said that publicly. I don't know if the Minister knows that message, but I'd like to know what he thinks of such a message.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u223	It is known that Iran has delivered rockets to Yemen in the past. So the fact that there are rockets in Yemen with Iranian markings is no surprise. There are even rockets that have been modernised there, which has increased the range. It's about whether Iran has supplied modern missiles to shoot them at Riyadh because of the conflict that's going on right now. That would have been the escalating action that Mr Van Helvert also asked for. That's the point. It's not about there being rockets. That's the point I'm making. There were rockets there. They have indeed been supplied by Iran and also by North Korea. One of them could have been shot off, an old one. Iran is now being blamed for this, and that is causing a verbal escalation of the conflict at the moment. Let us hope that it does not lead to a real escalation of the conflict. So the statements made at the Dubai press conference also show nothing other than that the rocket does indeed have Iranian markings. They do not show what it is about, namely: is that rocket a modern rocket that has just been delivered for the purpose of initiating this escalation? That's what I care about. The fact that an old rocket was fired by the rebels is not surprising, given what Saudi Arabia is doing in Yemen. That's way out of line. Well, then it's not too crazy that they shoot back once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u224	Then I note that the Minister is actually asking for proof that will never come. What he's looking for isn't locked up anywhere. If that's how it happened, it's never gonna be on paper. So there's not going to be any evidence. Does the Minister wish to communicate with the Chamber at any time in writing about this report and its follow-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u225	I have just said the following to Mr Van Helvert. If at some point it would appear that the scenario that Mr De Roon has just outlined is correct, and that Iran has indeed acted in this way, then we have a completely different case. Then Iran has actually escalated. That must have consequences. There's no discussion about that. I'm from the GBV department myself. I'm a good farmer's mind. In Yemen, we've had the situation for a while that you barely get a mouse into the country. The only thing that comes in comes in through Saudi Arabia controlled channels. Somehow, logically reasoningally, I have some difficulty in thinking that the Iranians have managed, while you are not getting into the country, to get into a missile via a channel controlled by Saudi Arabia. I just don't see it. If it turns out that's the case, we're definitely gonna act on it. But I think we should all keep this kind of logic going, because we are really talking about a serious conflict here. I will not repeat it because of the language, but assumptions are very dangerous here. We have to know, and then we'll act. But we need to know first, and now we don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u226	Continue with the block on Middle East policy and the Middle East Peace Process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u227	For the sake of time, I am going to the Middle East Peace Process, the Palestinian Authority and Israel. A little joke we used to make during the formation is that it might be even faster to make peace in the Middle East than to break out of the debate here in the Chamber. But who knows? Let it also be an objective of our foreign policy to make that happen there. Mr Van Rooijen, Mrs Karabulut and Mr Kuzu asked how this minister views the Middle East Peace Process and the two-state solution. Let me be clear: the two-state solution is pursued by this cabinet. This Minister, too, believes that the only real solution is a two-state solution. So I do not share the view of Mr De Roon, who says that Israel runs to the Jordan and that the Palestinian State is called Jordan. That is not the policy of this cabinet, and it is not going to be. So it's a two-state solution. Let me also be clear in response to Mr Kuzu and Mrs Karabulut. They said that a strategic moment of recognition of the Palestinian State could help. Is that what I'm gonna do? The two-state solution is like a peace deal with Iran, which is a complex form of equal crossing. I believe that if you acknowledge the Palestinian State separately, you will take the two-state solution further away. So I don't see that happening. We must work on crossing the two sides equally. That's the only way it's gonna work. Then questions were asked about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u228	I should first like to give the floor to Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u229	How can you talk about a two-state solution? The word "states" is very important here. Which two states are we talking about exactly if you don't recognize the one?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u230	Then you're talking about the two states that were created at the moment of equal crossing. Then you have a Palestinian State and a recognised Israeli State, through the requirements laid down by the Quartet. That's exactly the exchange that needs to take place. We've been talking about that for a long time. Let's hope it comes to this one time. Exactly this crossing is the only promising one; something that everyone has already established in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u231	We also take that view, but at the same time we also see an opposite movement. By acts of one state, in this case the Israeli State, the two-state solution is made more difficult. The Minister himself indicated in his own words that the two-state solution would not come any closer if one state were to be recognised. Then I'm starting to lose it a little bit. We're talking about a two-state solution, but we only recognize one. Acknowledging the other state will ensure that this two-state solution is further away. I don't get it. I think very few people understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u232	Then I'm just gonna take another shot. Look, the two states are the end point. Then there is a recognised Palestinian State and an Israeli State, recognized by the Arab world and the Palestinians. That must be done at the same time. We've been talking about that for a long time. This minister's assessment is that you are taking the process the wrong way if you would unilaterally, at a strategic point, proceed to recognition of the Palestinian State without a moment when you regulate everything. I understand that there are parties who think it might be wise to give them that position, which might give you a more equal negotiation. That is an opinion of a number of parties. The Minister's view is that this works counter-productive. This cabinet will work to address both sides on both good and bad matters. If we could get to the stage in this cabinet period in order to get the parties to the table and get into an endgame, which would be nice, then that endgame will mean that we have to cross immediately. I fear that a game that has already taken a step forward will lead to the withdrawal of the Palestinian Authority. Maybe he'll step back. Because let's face it: we see it on both sides. At the moment when we are just a little more fond of the Israelis, they often say that it is moving in the right direction for them. Then they're gonna hang back a little bit. Same thing you see on the Palestinian side. It is up to us to ensure that the balance is kept to the maximum. This cabinet believes that, if we were to achieve this, that balance would mean a two-state solution, right across, both recognised and viable at the end point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u233	A final word, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u234	Of course, closing. This is a discussion that has, of course, been going on for years. The Minister expressed the hope that the end would be reached during this period. I would like to ask him how realistic he thinks that is. Is he expecting a breakthrough in that? Is he going to make a breakthrough in that situation himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u235	I started this contribution with comparisons with predecessors that were made. There are many more illustrious names who have tried to bring this process to an end. If the Dutch Government can contribute to this, in whatever role, then I will certainly not back down. We also need to be realistic. This is a subject that has been going on for a long time. How should I put it euphemistically? It is not entirely possible to exclude the failure of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u236	Of course, I listen to the Minister very carefully all night. There's a lot of continuity in it. Do I hear correctly that this really is a change in the policy that Minister Koenders put forward? He did, however, leave open the possibility of a unilateral recognition of the Palestinian State at a strategic moment. Are we actually going back to the line previously expressed by this Chamber in a motion in 2011, namely that there should be no unilateral recognition of the Palestinian State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u237	I have not followed every debate completely. As far as I can remember, Mr Koenders has also constantly indicated that he wanted to get into the two-state solution. It is an appreciation, however, let it also be clear whether it helps unilaterally at a strategic point in calling out the Palestinian state. His assessment was yes, mine is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u238	I can tell the Minister that Koenders did not recognise the State of Palestine either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u239	No. And I don't think it's out of the question that I can't do it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u240	However, the comparison of equal crossing does not apply here either, because you simply have an occupying power that makes the two-state solution increasingly difficult because of the expansion of illegal settlements. That's what my question is about. The Netherlands has a policy of discouragement. Now I have stumbled upon the fact that the Dutch embassy in Israel is an Israeli company, Shufersal...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u241	A grocery store.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u242	...a supermarket chain, indeed, promotes while that chain does business in illegal settlements. This is contrary to Dutch policy. Could the Minister respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u243	Now I'm gonna have to go dig. Why do I think our embassy does that? This supermarket has a Dutch month, so I say out of my mind; it is not a week, but a month, a Dutch month, in which he promotes articles from Holland, from the Netherlands. I think that's very good. Great! Do it! Holland promotion on its feet. In addition to branches in Israel, this supermarket indeed also has branches on the Westbank in Palestinian territory. The Dutch embassy was very careful. Its activities focused only on the supermarkets in Israel. The embassy has also always indicated that we have a policy of discouragement in relation to the Palestinian area. Because not only for the embassy, but also for companies, such as supermarkets, it will be impossible for them to be active only in Israel. It's not like you only have Palestinian supermarket chains on the West Bank and others only in Israel. There's overlap in that. Then you have to separate it properly. That's what our embassy did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u244	You can't have a little discouragement policy. This is a chain. Those companies are all part of that. In the occupied area, in the illegal settlements, Dutch companies indeed do business. So I don't understand how this relates. Unless the Minister says that we are abandoning the policy of discouragement, I cannot imagine that, of course, this does not relate to that. They are indeed promoting a Holland line. That means they benefit from the economy of illegal settlements. Mogherini also says that all activities in settlements are illegal. This company does that. I would ask the Minister to look at this case, to inform us and perhaps to explain in a letter why he thinks this relates to the policy of discouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u245	That's what I want to do. It listens closely, so let's avoid drawing right here next to the line. Let us be clear: it happens in the context of a Holland promotion week. The embassy has clearly indicated it, but let's share the exact details again. Moreover, should that idea arise, the conclusion cannot be that the Netherlands has changed the policy on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u246	You promised me a letter. Is it possible to send that for the upcoming AO RBZ to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u247	When will we have that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u248	Early December.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u249	Yeah, I think I can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u250	Fine. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u251	A number of specific questions have been asked, including the perverse incentive of money going to Palestinian prisoners from the Palestinian Authority. Mr Voordewind and Mr Van der Staaij asked for this. Let us be clear that we are constantly calling on the Palestinian Authority to do so. The Netherlands considers that the family of prisoners, where there is a socio-economic need and need to do so, can receive compensation. But that the fee is higher when the penalty is higher, just has a perverse incentive in it. In fact, the worse what you've done, the more you get. These are also cases where terrorist attacks are included. That's a suggestion that shouldn't be attached to it. We are constantly telling this to the Palestinian Authority. We are trying to get more countries behind this at European level. That worked, by the way. The previous cabinet has done a good job. We shall continue to do so. We're really not okay with this. It will only work if we can broaden that European coalition. A number of countries are involved, but there are still insufficient. We will continue to draw attention to this in the coming period, including in RBZ-Raden. In the view of the Dutch cabinet, it is also a very bad thing for the Palestinian Authority. It undermines their authority. That's what we say to them all the time. We shall continue to do so and continue to raise it at European level. I hope that at some point we can really make a fist out of Europe with a broad front and put an end to this. It's just a bad practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u252	Thank you for the commitment to do this widely in Europe, but just for clarification: I assume that this is also happening in bilateral contacts with the Palestinian Authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u253	Sure. We are trying to broaden this contact with the Palestinian Authority, so that not only the Netherlands does so, but more and more countries do so. That therefore has a certain effectiveness. Mr Van der Staaij said that sometimes aid money flows to terrorist organisations. Let us be clear that we have no evidence that NGOs supported by the Netherlands or their board members in Israel or other countries have committed activities that could be characterised as terrorism. If you say it's about terrorism, it has far-reaching consequences. This must therefore be done with care, while respecting the rights of individuals and organisations. The source of the accusation was usually the NGO Monitor. I say it very simply: I honestly can't do much with it. It is very often very vague accusations. For example, someone would be related to a PFLP member. They're accusations at such a level. Yes, Mr President, that is no reason to describe organisations as providing support to terrorist organisations. If it is established, then there is no doubt that there will be an act. But such an accusation deserves careful support and it is lacking. Then we shouldn't go along with that kind of footage. I already gave an example of what happened to Mr Kaag. I'm gonna say that again, because I thought that was really wrong. "Really scandalous," says Mrs Karabulut. That is another example: something is thrown into the ether for a while and that image is constantly fed while it is based on nothing. In fact, the opposite is the case. We shouldn't want that kind of practice, not even in this house. Moreover, I am not suggesting that Mr Van der Staaij would like to do so, but I would like to draw that very clear line here. With the Women's Technical Affairs Committee in the Palestinian territories there was something going on and we have also stopped doing so. Mr President, I do not think that I have arrived at peace between Israel and Palestine because of my part of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u254	You jumped all three at once, so I'm gonna go straight ahead. I shall begin with Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u255	There is no peace yet and it is probably not going to be achieved in this Chamber either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u256	Ideals we have to keep.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u257	A question about those human rights organisations that this minister has already said we will continue to support. I think that is really very important, because in the current climate, reducing that support could actually be interpreted as capitulation to, let me put it this way, a social debate in Israel, but also in Palestine, which is hostile to NGOs. So I think that's an important commitment from this minister. If the Minister happens to go that way or speak to his colleague in the past few days or months, we don't know when that will be. Then it is important to indicate that the Netherlands attaches importance to the work of these organizations. The Knesset has recently adopted legislation that does not happen uncoincidenceally, let me put it this way: organisations such as B'Tselem and Breaking the Silence, courageous people, really in the corner. I think it would be important for the Netherlands to show that we support these organisations and that we consider that to be unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u258	Where organisations contribute to the objective of Dutch policy, we will continue to do so. Because, frankly, I don't know every single organization, I'm not gonna say: fine, we're gonna keep doing that. I'm just making a little bridge to something I've forgotten, abusing your interruption. The same applies to the reconciliation projects. Asked whether we should continue to do things for that purpose. That is what we are going to do, but we must continue to see whether it is effective and whether they are pursuing what we want. I say that too, because we sometimes see a certain fragmentation. Back to this point: we will continue to support organisations working on the peace process and condemn human rights abuses. The condition is that they do so in a good way and from an objective point of view. So it has to be with these critiques and if that gets murky, we will also talk to them. If that does not apply to these organizations, then you have a year and if there is some noise here and there, then we are just having a conversation. But the intention is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u259	I find that a reassuring answer, because of these organisations I know exactly what is happening. I think this minister's staff knows that too. Let me ask you a question about the funding of these organisations. If the minister says "shrinking and it can be clearer," that's fine. Nor will I say to the Minister: you must necessarily finance this organisation or this organisation. That is not up to me, but I would like to say that it is an important nuance that it seems unwise at this time to reduce the overall level of aid. This is independent of who and to which organisations this aid is granted. If the Netherlands were to reduce human rights support at the moment and with this social debate in Israel, that would be interpreted as: you see, the Dutch also agree with us. I wouldn't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u260	Let me put it this way: precisely in order to keep the balance in the debate, the Dutch Government does not want to send signals that disturb the delicate balance and that applies to all aspects. If that were the case here by taking a particular side, we certainly should not do so. If, by the way, parties disrupt that balance sheet themselves and we have an impact by financing it, then so is what I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u261	I believe that we have now reached the end of the MOVP block. For a few years now, we have been afraid to call that MOVP, because the P stands for trial, and a process has been gone for a while. But there is still a little bit of light on the horizon. It is a development on which I would like to ask a small reflection from the Minister. This development has to do with the American administration which is now in existence and which, as far as I am concerned, is quite rightly criticised, including from this Chamber. But there is, I believe, one promise that the American President has not yet broken, namely that he still wants to work on the start of a peace process. Kushner, Greenblatt and David Friedman are more Jewish and more pro-Israel you don't get them to be quite busy now to at least make something of a development possible. How does the Minister see that? Is the Netherlands prepared to offer all the space and support for this? It is popular for the American administration to be particularly critical at the moment. There are often good reasons for this; we have just dealt with Iran. But that doesn't apply to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u262	I think it is very good that the Americans want to take steps. We'll give them plenty of room for that, too. Where they can use help from us, we will offer it. We have good contacts on both sides. We will also want to use them if that can help in this process. But we all know, no, we all know, without "but" - that a process that could possibly lead to a successful outcome will require the Americans to be involved. The fact that they want to be involved again is a good sign. That is what we said in the debate just now: we need to see where it comes from. But as a cabinet, we think it is a very good signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u263	To make that possible, the Americans themselves have cut a bit into their own meat. Of course, the current American President had promised that he would make short cuts with the Palestinian Authority. They seem to be his closest friends now. He promised they'd move the embassy to Jerusalem. I am sure Mr De Roon will promise that again this evening. But they didn't do it. The Americans are also engaged in actually involving the Arab Peace Initiative in the parameters that may be presented. I think it is wise to involve Sunni countries, on which the Palestinian Authority is also very dependent. In the past, the Netherlands has been a bit double about that. I think it is good that these countries should be allowed to do so, and yes, I would also say to Mrs Karabulut, through you, President: Saudi Arabia should also be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u264	You can look very pessimisticly at the situation in the Middle East and this process, but, for example, in the area of the economy, the links have remained, even more so, between the two parties. We in the Netherlands have played a role in this. But you can also look at a bigger picture. I was talking about the great conflict that simmers around the Persian Gulf. With an optimistic look, you can say that the two regional superpowers, Iran and Saudi Arabia, are so busy with each other that they might want to get rid of that continuous message towards Israel and the Palestinians. Maybe there's even something possible right now. Time will tell. We will facilitate everything we can. We also know that if anything happens, it will always be drawn at the Rose Garden. Whoever is doing it has shown the Norwegians, very good work eventually it happens there. The American involvement is needed. The Netherlands will contribute where it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u265	I had another question to the Minister about the truth about the missile that was fired from Yemen towards Saudi Arabia. Mr De Roon also said that we may never find the truth about that. On that point, I would like to say the following. The Reuters press agency gave the floor to Ambassador Haley of the United States on 7 November. She describes that rocket as "a type of weapon that had not been present in Yemen before the conflict." The minister elaborated on whether it was an old rocket or a new one. This ambassador is giving a very clear answer. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to consult with the United States on the extent to which we can see this as real proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u266	For the time being, we do not have any of the Americans. How shall I put it? It has received clear evidence that this is the case. We should also remember... We have some past experiences, of course. That is why I refer to assumptions. The evidence must be clear, also looking at which parties sometimes make statements. The Americans too have interests. Look at what the U.S. administration is holding for position. Mr De Roon said: well, the Americans are abandoning the Kurds and everyone is focusing on the Russian Federation. Frankly, I see a very different trend in the Middle East. The Americans are clearly picking sides again. They really side with the Sunni camp, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, and against Iran. Then with that in mind, you have to look at expressions. So I'm not going to assume that if the Americans say "this is it" at that point, it is. I like to be convinced, but not just with statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u267	There too, I am very pleased with the commitment of this Minister. That is why my question was whether there might then be consultation with them. I'll say it nicely. Is it perhaps an idea to ask America: hey, your ambassador just said that to Reuters and who's gonna prove it, so why don't you show us the evidence, because we're curious too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u268	As far as I know, but I'll double-check it, as far as Mrs Mogherini's concerned, it's already happened. If it isn't, we're definitely going to walk that route, because it's about something, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u269	Will you come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u270	Well, I really didn't get that question answered in second term from the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u271	Oh, no, I understood if you were going to ask that question. No? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u272	And then there's a check, double check, double check, because we've previously had supposed evidence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. Then a war started which turned out to be based on lies. Anyway... My question concerns the expansion of illegal settlements. Two elements are important to achieve this two-state solution: a unitary government and the cessation of illegal settlements. What action does the Minister intend to take, as the Netherlands and at EU level, against enlargement? We see that this is happening, which has simply made a viable Palestinian state impossible and plunged the Gazans into humanitarian misery. What action does the Minister intend to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u273	When it comes to settlements, the Netherlands will take place like those things, which continue to condemn, as in the past, and appeal to Israel. Because they don't help in the process, to put it mildly. We all know that if it happened in Area C, that's really the red line. But also outside: in every situation where there is an expansion, we have this discussion every time and the Netherlands will also appeal to it because of the borders of '67 Israel. We're not going back on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u274	That has happened in recent years, and it has to be, but the point is that it doesn't work. In the case of the illegal annexation of Crimea, sanctions have been imposed. When is the point that the Netherlands and the EU are going to impose sanctions? Because this has been going on for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u275	Two things. We have a policy of discouragement. There is a variety of ideas about this, but we have that for this, among other reasons. But let me also be clear about sanctions. Then I'm going back to the discussion about Iran. This process is also a stocking foot process. For decades. And if we're going to throw the sanctioning instrument in there, my guess is that's not gonna help the process. So I would strongly advise against that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u276	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u277	"Kousenfeet"... The Minister has to be a little careful with all kinds of issues to put together. There is no country in the world that has been occupied for 50 years. Iran hasn't occupied a country for 50 years. As I said, there are parallels with Russia that annex Crimea. Perhaps the Minister should think about it for a while, but perhaps he can acknowledge that the speech has so far had little success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u279	Well, honestly, that's not entirely true. With great regularity plans are announced and there is a lot of fuss, but in the end almost nothing happens or sometimes nothing happens. We must recognise that too. Things happen that can't. But we sometimes have plans where hundreds of homes are announced and five are built. So I sometimes have the impression that we have to be careful, here too, to let us play. We need to see what's really happening. Where it's really over the line, we'll talk to them. Again, we also have the policy of discouragement. That's not for nothing either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u280	Are we getting to the migration block?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u281	If that's what you want, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u282	Yeah, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u283	Then who am I to be against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u284	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u285	Migration. A lot of questions have been asked about it. For the sake of time, let me just look at the coalition agreement, because that is what it was about. What does it say? I thought it was pretty clear. It says we want to bet... Mr Van Helvert said that this is one of the most important tasks of this minister. I think that's a little overzealous. Why? It says that we would like to make migration agreements with countries in North Africa, for example, in line with what was once set up in Turkey. We have also indicated in the coalition agreement under what conditions. Mr Voordewind asked about it: material compliance with the Refugee Convention. Mr Voordewind also said: it means a short procedure in Europe. That is not quite the right term, because we are not going into the procedure. I'd like to get a proper divorce. It is not an asylum procedure, it is a matter of establishing whether one is covered by a deal and whether one can be returned under that deal. Take the example of Dommov. He's not under a deal, so he just walks in. Right now, we don't have any deals. Mr Van Ojik asked which safe third countries are currently there. None. Something that was evident from the formation period was a text message that I received in my role at the time as negotiator of Mr Dijkhoff, you also know well. When the negotiations with GroenLinks failed, he texted me: it is strange that in the seventeenth economy of the world coalition negotiations have failed on the fact that the circumstances in which a possible deal with a country still to be determined should be shaped in the future. Actually, that's what it's still about. We've written down the terms and conditions under which we could make deals. Those deals still need shaping. That is subject to strict conditions. It's one of my tasks to do that and try to do it. But these conditions must be met. That is why I am taking something away from the most important task, because meeting these conditions is not easy. It is therefore not possible to say that this is going to work very easily in North Africa, but it is a line that needs to be set up properly. I think that's what it says, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u286	It is good that the Minister should clarify what is in the coalition agreement. I was there yesterday and I was there earlier, but we are not going to repeat the cabinet formation as far as I am concerned about what is actually the use of cabinet policy. When I was standing there yesterday, I assumed the stakes were for people coming across the Mediterranean to be returned. They are being sent back to a safe country, there are no safe third countries and so on, but it is the commitment of the policy that people are being sent back. My assumption was that people coming to Europe across the Mediterranean are no longer entitled to asylum in Europe. When I said that, Mr Voordewind said: no, it is not, it is not in the coalition agreement. Mr Van Helvert said: no, they can apply here, but then they have to wait for the results. Then I didn't remember... My question is very simple: can people who cross the Mediterranean and have political grounds for fleeing be that as we are talking about, not economic migrants who still apply for asylum in Europe and get asylum? That was my very simple question, because I understand from the coalition agreement that the government's commitment is that it will not be possible to do so anymore. If I've misunderstood that, I'd love to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u287	The cabinet's commitment is to reach agreements with countries in North Africa, in which, with due respect for the refugee agreement, people here here are also welcome for Mr Van Helvert's absence from the asylum procedure and waiting there. No, there's a short test to see if someone is part of such an arrangement with such a country and if he's in danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u288	Non-refoulement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u289	Exactly. Non-refoulement. But then you go back and you're not in the asylum procedure in Europe. You are going back, as in the situation with Turkey. That is the government's commitment, but then you must have an agreement that meets those conditions. We don't have such agreements right now, and it won't be easy to get them, but this is the stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u290	The commitment is to make agreements with countries in Africa so that we can send people who apply for asylum here on political grounds without having been able to send that asylum application back to Africa. That is the commitment of this cabinet. The minister says we may not be able to do it, but he's gonna do his best. That's exactly the point I made yesterday. That means that people fleeing for political reasons only if there is a violation of the principle of non-refoulement..................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the commitment of this cabinet. I found that out yesterday and colleagues from the coalition said: no, you misunderstood. But I now understand from the Minister, unfortunately, that I do understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u291	Mr Van Ojik always leaves one piece away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u292	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u293	That is that we must reach agreements with countries under specific conditions. We have the commitment to reach such agreements and these agreements have clear guarantees, whereby people are refugees, because they do not end up in a situation where they are returned in violation of the non-refoulement. If you come from another country, a country with which no agreement has been made, and you enter Europe, you will simply enter the European asylum procedure. 'Cause you're not in such an appointment. We have more guarantees than in the Turkish situation, but it is the same principle. That is what we do want, more shelter in the region. Better shelter, by the way. A lot is being taken care of in the region and I believe we are spending 95% of our money on shelter here, while about 95% of the people are there. If we do that better, we can make a huge improvement for a lot of people. That is indeed the government's commitment, but it is in that context. So it is not, as Mr Van Ojik says, that we are by definition sending back everyone who comes here. No, there's a piece for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u294	A short closing sentence, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u295	Yeah, there's a piece for it. And that piece that's in front of it, that's what characterizes this government's commitment. It is going to try to create a situation where, in the government's view, it is justified to send everyone back. I keep saying that, and I know very well that this is within the limits of the Refugee Convention. I know all of that, but I'm concerned with the use of the cabinet. I put it to you, and the Minister said: you understood that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u296	Thank you. That was your final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u297	Still, it's gonna take a little more time, and I'm sorry about why we're doing this. Why do you send refugees in such a situation? They're just refugees back after a test if they're covered by the agreements? That's because we want to prevent them from drowning. This is also the essence of what happened in Greece. One of the things that bothered me personally is what happened off the coast of North Africa in recent months. When you looked at pictures of where boat refugees were being caught, you saw that happening closer and closer to the coast. What we do not want is for the situation to arise that people, even if they are not refugees, try and say: when I am there, I go into the procedure. Then not only refugees will try it, but also the very large group that is not a refugee, but which is coming this way for, by the way, understandable economic reasons. That's the intention behind this kind of arrangement. We can disagree on that, but what we want to achieve is that people are not going to cross that road. They do have the opportunity, through remigration, to come this way, because we do not run away from responsibilities. That's what it says very clearly. It's the stakes that matter. We really need to keep that in mind. It's not like when we say, "Let it come," nothing goes wrong. We've seen that. A lot of people drown. That's not what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u298	In my view, this is the problem that is theoretically true, but that is actually being started in practice, for example with the Turkey deal, but now also in Libya, when it is not being assessed in advance whether all the conditions are met. I agree with the Minister. Who wants people to drown at sea? So the EU is helping the Libyan Coast Guard to bring people to the coast, as the Minister says. Then they're traded for $800. Is that an improvement? We do not want people to come to Europe, so a dirty deal is being made with Turkey and their rights are being violated. Is that a solution to the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u299	"A dirty deal with Turkey." With all due respect, if an appointment has shown that it works, it's that deal. And for a moment, everyone forgets that quickly, but how did this country stand when these appointments were made? We had locally out-of-control meetings because of a stream of refugees walking over our shoes. Then you have to have the courage to move on to this sort of thing. Then you can't just stand on the sidelines and say it's a disgrace. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That was done by the previous cabinet, and so will this cabinet. Then it is indeed easy to comment from the sidelines, but it has worked. We can't run away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u300	Three things. One. Things got out of hand locally because the cabinet screwed up. People didn't want to listen to people. Two. It got out of hand in Europe because Europe didn't act and didn't take its own responsibility. Three. Europe has let itself be called ringelors, and so has the Netherlands, by this Turkey deal and by Erdogan's cart, which does not respect all human rights, including those of refugees. So these are not sustainable solutions. I understand. You'll be off the hook for a while. It's out of sight. But, I mean, we live in 2017. People are traded in Libya for $800. Surely Europe should not want to participate in this? There have just been sums transferred by the Italians to all kinds of merchants in Libya who do the most terrible things to people. Those aren't solutions, are they? Those African countries you're talking about, hardly anyone wants to make a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u301	Through me, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u302	Is the Minister at least prepared to check in advance, when the deals are concluded, before they enter into force, whether they comply with all international laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u303	That is clearly stated in the coalition agreement. There's not a word in French or Spanish or Russian or whatever you want to use for it. It's very clear. We intend to make that kind of arrangement. What these agreements have to comply with is very clear in the coalition agreement. You can disagree with that, that's something else, but what they have to meet is clear. So that is not the picture Mrs Karabulut sketches; as if we wanted it to be what is actually going wrong in Libya now. That is really not what Europe wants and wants or wants. It's just wrong what's happening there. You should not make such links, I say to Mrs Karabulut, because that is not what the coalition agreement says, and it should not be suggested in any way, because then we are really having the debate in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u304	That is not what the coalition agreement says, but that is the practice. If you say that you disagree and that you cannot tolerate people being traded in Libya, you should also say: okay, I will now take action with Europeans to at least suspend cooperation with the Libyan Coast Guard until we get things in order. If you mean this, you will now take action to prevent an open prison in Greece.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u305	Mrs Karabulut, thank you very much. This was a final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u306	Here, too, the link is made with the Libyan Coast Guard. By the way, every fugitive they pick up from the sea at that moment is a drowning man, who drowns if they don't pick him up. That's the end of it. Mrs. Karabulut says don't do a coast guard. But the consequence is they're drowning. It might be useful to pick them up after all. Then they'll be brought back. I do not run away from the fact that sometimes people end up in situations where everything is wrong, by the way, most people don't. We can also see that a stream of people are getting back on track by agreements from, for example, countries in central Africa. That too is a positive development. And that is what we want: for those people to go back to their country, build their own country and find the economic perspective there. Maybe Mrs. Karabulut can look at these things a little more positively. I do not run away from the mistakes, but it would be good if Mrs Karabulut also looked at the things that go well in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u307	A small correction to my quote by Mr Van Ojik. What I said yesterday is that there are no refugee deals now and that the people are now simply being taken into procedure. If there is a refugee deal in a particular region from which someone comes, the government believes that there will be a shortened procedure. If he comes from a region where there is no agreement, then there is also simply an asylum procedure. I just wanted to make that right to Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u308	You were mentioned. It's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u309	I certainly didn't mean to tell Mr. Voordewind...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u310	But you'd already been in this interrupting circle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u311	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u312	Do you want to interrupt again about the same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u313	The minister is going to tell us what was actually the intention behind the bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u314	But we have had this little debate about the interruption. I'm gonna take a look at the time when we're doing all the interrupting debates three times. I am not going to give anyone more than three interruptions on one theme. That is my firm intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u315	So this is my second one, huh? Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u316	No, we're not going to do that again on the same subject. If you have another topic, you have a complete interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u317	I would like to comment on what the Minister said, namely: I would also like to tell you why we are doing this. We were just having a debate about the precise commitment of the cabinet. Well, that's clear to me now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u318	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u319	It wasn't yesterday, it is now. Then the Minister said: I would also like to explain why we are going to do this, because we do not want people drowning in the Mediterranean. That is, of course, an objective which my group is very much in favour of, and I can assume that everyone here in the Chamber is very much in favour of. So the discussion about how to prevent people from drowning in the Mediterranean must certainly be conducted. You can do a lot of business about that. You can improve reception in the region. You can tackle the root causes of migration. You can send back people who are not entitled to asylum. You'd better guard the boundaries. You can do a lot of things. But that requires the commitment to ensure that people fleeing for political reasons are told that they can only apply for asylum in Africa and that we send them back there, so I say again for clarity, including to Mr Voordewind...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u320	What is your specific question, other than the one you have already asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u321	My question is whether, in view of the fact that we share the objective of preventing drowning in the Mediterranean Sea, we can agree that many things can happen other than what the cabinet wants to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u322	There we find each other far-reaching, because about the whole list that Mr Van Ojik listed is also in the coalition agreement. That is what we are doing. This is such a complex problem that you don't solve it with one measure. The total is needed. That is a matter of short and long breaths. Because removing root causes is an important part of the coalition agreement. Mr Van Ojik knows better than anyone that that will take a long time, but you have to start with it. The cabinet is open to any measure that helps to solve this problem, both in the short and in the long term. I think that sometimes we differ on what is efficient or not. Anyway, otherwise we'd probably be one big, cozy political family. Mr. Chairman. Terrorism. Mrs Karabulut asked what 16 years of war on terror, which I simply continue to call the fight against terrorism, has resulted. She goes back 16 years, to 9/11. By the way, it was terrorists who flew into a tower. There was no Western attack at the time. That was a terrorist attack. Then there was an intervention in Afghanistan, with an international mandate. There, a free haven of terrorism has been tackled, and successfully. Bin Laden and Al Qaeda have been driven out. Yes, the stabilisation of Afghanistan is a long-term issue and with great sacrifices, including in the Netherlands, both financially and personally, because there are people who have lost their neighbors. This applies even more to other countries. Of course, there have also been interventions that have been less successful; I am not running away from that. You might even wonder if they were wise. Sometimes you have to look a little further than the short term. Let me give you an example of Libya. That's where we intervened. That was understandable, because we saw that in the east of Libya a group of people could be chased over the blade, let's just put it that way. I wanted to say "bad off" first, but that's too mild a wording. Then you have an obligation to try to do something about it. You may wonder if our intervention afterwards was as wise as you look at the anarchy of the current situation in Libya and the number of victims it has brought with it. That is a fair question from Mrs Karabulut. But I think it goes far that Mrs Karabulut seems to suggest a little bit that all Western intervention, for example in Iraq, has to go to the trash of history because it is only bad. Not only I personally, but also this cabinet, because that is indistinguishable, are 100% behind the intervention in 2014 against IS to protect the Jezidis. It's very good that we did, because otherwise those people would have just been killed. That's what we did with F-16s and then we started training. That's good. This cabinet also fully supports the intervention of the French in Mali. That was necessary to prevent the emergence of a new caliphate. That didn't happen, and that was successful. We have now reduced ISIS to 96% above ground, but the battle is not over yet. Mr De Roon has asked a question about this; I will come back to that in a moment. So to put all this down like this, it's not the cabinet line. If intervention is necessary, then we should not back down. But we must always think about what it means, not only in the short term but also in the longer term. It is right for Mrs Karabulut to say that. The fact that radicalisation has multiple causes is absolutely a fact. That's not because the West is throwing bombs somewhere, although that's not without effect either. Hat is about religious and political matters. Sometimes there is tribal discontent or even family suffering. It's a cocktail of socio-economic backwardness. Terrorism has many parents, so to speak. I certainly do not want to bring it back to: the West has started bombing and that is why terrorism is increasing. I'm really out of line with that. But it is true that we are not only going to win this battle with weapons; that too is a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u323	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister not only sees the war on terror as one great success story. But I'd like to zoom out with the minister. Indeed, I am talking about 16 years of war against terrorism. This is an important objective, namely to defeat terrorism and bring peace, security and stability. This minister rightly wants to defeat terrorism, make the Netherlands safer and regulate migration flows. What does the Minister think has been achieved on these points when he looks back on the past 16 years? Is the strategy effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u324	We are seeing a huge increase in cooperation in the fight against terrorism. We've intervened with the Jezidis and in Mali. Of course there are successes. Is the battle over? No, he needs a long breath. Mrs Karabulut herself indicated that it is almost infinite. I'm not that gloomy, but this is going to take many years. I'm not running away from that. It is a persistent problem that has to do with everything, for example social inequality and religious conflicts. They're not gone from today to tomorrow. These are also important reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u325	It is indeed a complex problem. But let's get back to those results. Let me put a number of results to the Minister in concrete terms. $5 trillion has been invested in this war against terror. That's a 5 with 12 zeros. That's a lot of zeroes. Over 2 million victims have been killed in Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan. The number of terrorists has grown to over 100,000, including the number of Islamic-terrorist groups. There has been an increase in the number of civilian deaths due to terrorism of 400% since 2001. And not to mention, we have millions more refugees. Millions. Can the Minister say that, looking at the objectives, this struggle is effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u326	These figures include Syria. Syria is just a typical case where we have not intervened. And it didn't end very festive there. In fact, that's still going on. So here too, Mrs Karabulut really has to be careful to link all kinds of things, because it's not that simple. I am not going to claim that the war on terror is indeed one large, long-term set of successes. No, it's not. But they're here. The world would, in my heartfelt opinion, have been worse off if we had not intervened on several points. It is always a delicate balance, because you do not know how Syria would have stood if President Obama had intervened after drawing that red line. We don't know. We have not intervened; the country is a great misery. There are a lot of refugees coming from, there are a lot of victims who appear in your statistics. But that's not because the West intervened there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u327	Absolutely. Assad has also caused a lot of civilian casualties, indeed, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u328	And your final remark is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u329	Since it's been a proxy war, it's just... Mr President, my final remark is that I note that the Minister does not go into the facts. I note that there is indeed much more terrorism because of the war on terror. That is something we can all see, and there are many more refugees. Is the Minister prepared to have this examined at least by independent researchers, for example the AIV, because it is so important to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u330	Thank you. I am going to intervene: this is not a final remark. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u331	The answer to that question is: no, because links are being made that are incorrect. We're not going to investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u332	A more successful part of this war on terror is the fight against ISIS. Where the military battle seems almost to be won now, I would like to make a comment about the battle that is about to come. I don't know if the minister's gonna talk about Raqqa anymore. It's written off. But I do find it worrying that a lot of foreign terrorist fighters seem to have escaped. What does the Minister think can be done, for example, in the context of the Global Counterterrorism Forum to find these people again? But I would also like to ask him the following, and that is the other side of this coin. Now that the military struggle is almost over, what can we do about preventing radicalisation? I know that this is a major taboo in Russia, but it is still unlikely to be important to prevent this type of large terrorist organisation in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u333	I'll start with the last question. The fight against the root causes of migration is in many areas in sync with that of radicalisation. social inequality, insecurity and religious tensions are also root causes of migratory flows. So I see a lot of things coming together there. That is also clearly stated in the coalition agreement. The only thing we haven't done is name that link, but there is. So we're definitely going to make meters. Let me get this straight. Did you ask a little bit about Syria and ISIS?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u334	In this case, a little more concrete. I was talking in particular about that particular incident in Raqqa, which the BBC reported extensively on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u335	Oh, yeah, sorry. I don't have any more information about that incident than I did yesterday. That information is also in the letter. There have been agreements made between chiefs and remnants of ISIS in Raqqa. An agreement was made for the protection of women and children who were used as human shields, allowing some 250 to 300 IS fighters to leave Raqqa. As a result, the fights stopped and the women and children were safe. To be honest, I find that worrying from the point of view of warriors getting away. I do understand the fact that, in such a situation, you try to get women and children out of such a terrible misery. The Netherlands has often drawn attention to this. We are trying to get to the bottom of the table, for example with foreign terrorist fighters, because there is another difference between local and foreign IS fighters. We've seen reports that underneath those allowed fighters there would be four foreign fighters. That just hasn't been confirmed. So we are trying to find out now, because that is also of some impact. But that's as far as we know at the moment. Coalition's looking. She didn't participate in the conversations, but someone did attend as an observer. We did not know that, but we did express our displeasure about it, because it would have been nice if we had known.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u336	Your final sentence, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u337	This is the second part of my interruption, Mr President. The final sentence is in the third part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u338	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u339	No problem; it's late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u340	It's early.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u341	It's early; that's true. It's Thursday. I think it's a good idea for the Minister to state this. I also think it is important that he should be honest about the fact that the Netherlands was not there and that we are somewhat displeased about that. Because I understand the consideration when it comes to women and children and maybe even babies. But if foreign terrorist fighters disappear off the radar, and that is of course happening on a larger scale now that IS is losing hand, it is really important that we jointly try to keep them in view, whether within that coalition, within the EU or within the Global Counterterrorism Forum. I would ask the Minister to inform us as soon as possible when it becomes clear how many foreign terrorist fighters are involved and what can be done together to counter them. It's a worrying matter. The second part will be brief, Madam President. I found the letter about the Security Council interesting. I thought there might still be some color in here and there. One of the things I would like to suggest is that the prevention side, which is also mentioned in the letter, should focus a little more on the prevention of radicalisation and terror. In my opinion, this is a real global challenge and the Netherlands must now make a move on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u342	With regard to the Security Council, the request was also broader: can we see how we can pay attention in our year to the trial of IS fighters? Well, that's what we're gonna do. Let that be clear. It's important to keep them in view, just to be able to bring them to justice. We also supported in the Security Council, for example, the British Resolution 2379 on the collection of evidence against IS fighters to ensure that we can actually tackle them when they emerge. By the way, I say that it must be broader than just IS fighters, because there are more parties in the region that have done unhonourable things, not least the Syrian regime. So we're also trying to go wider than IS alone. But let us be clear that the trial of IS fighters is also an important subject for the Netherlands. That is what the Security Council is already doing. Of course, we are going to work on that as well. I admit that further focus needs to be given. That's what we're gonna do. One of the things that matters to us is: where can the Netherlands really act in the year we sit there? It has to be areas where you have the credibility, so you don't spend a year trying to convince everyone that you really know what you're doing, and so you can make a difference. That touches on what Mr Sjoerdsma is asking. For example, it is a question such as: how can we use our expertise in the areas of food, water and that sort of thing, which are often the causes of conflicts? We also want to pay attention to this in discussions in the Security Council, because prevention, the prevention of conflicts, is better than they are trying to resolve. That's what hits each other there. It is not quite what Mr Sjoerdsma is asking, but I think we are coming to an end. We must have the credibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u343	Mr Sjoerdsma asked a few things mixed up, with which he made all his final remarks. That is why I shall now give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u344	I try to follow up on the previous two questions from colleagues Karabulut and Sjoerdsma. One of the civilian deaths that was killed in Libya by stabbing is Mrs Salwa Bugaighis. She was here a few times in the room. Colleagues have met her, too. She was an extremely courageous human rights defender, who was still a party to the first constitution for Libya. She was killed by ISIS, not by Western alliance planes, but by ISIS. I think that we owe it to her, and I would almost say that we owe it to her to stand up very hard for that trial. There is something in the coalition agreement which, in my opinion, is sharper than what is stated in the letter on the deployment of the Security Council. I would like to follow the line of the government agreement and also point to UN Security Council Resolution 2174, which deals precisely with the trial of ISIS fighters. As far as I am concerned, our commitment must be focused on this. The coalition agreement is very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u345	Well, I don't think that's a problem, because the coalition agreement is leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u346	That is why I said yesterday in the first place that it would be good if the Chamber gave its opinion on this matter. I hear that a number of parties also have a clear view of this. We also expect this Minister to make an active commitment and we expect him to come to the UN Security Council with proposals on how to shape that trial. I would like to mention the following example. Just last week in London, a lady who had traveled to Syria with five children came back. She wanted to go back to Syria, but was stopped. Then she started a website to encourage terrorism. She went to court for that and was acquitted, so she could still raise her five children. Of course, that's a great story for those five kids, I hope. But it can't be that we're dealing so differently with former ISIS fighters. That is why, despite what the Minister says about this and what is very good, it is very important that the Chamber gives this as a support for what is not in the UN Security Council letter or in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u347	I know the meaning of the coalition agreement. I know most of the sentences in the coalition agreement pretty well. I'm not gonna take anything off of that. That's just guidance. Ready. We must be careful, however, to suggest that, through the UN, we can ensure that all Member States adapt their legal systems in such a way that we do it in the same way everywhere. It can't be. We are going to try to point to it and get the subject on the agenda, so that countries do not run away from it. But some countries do things that fit into their legal system, even if we think: we would do it differently. That's probably what they're gonna think about us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u348	Absolutely. We should not ask for things that cannot, because then you create your own disappointment but also disappointment with others. But, and that makes it a bit difficult now, the combination with the discussion about the recognition of genocide on Christians is very important. If it is recognised on this point, this Minister may well have a role to play in the UN Security Council, then you can prosecute the ISIS fighters and have them tried for that serious, serious crime. That is where he has a role to play. If that recognition is there, of course you still cannot oblige every country to do it in a certain way, but you have more in your hands to do the good things with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u349	I will respond to the reports on this matter as soon as possible. I have already promised Mr Voordewind this in writing. It is extremely complex, I can tell you. The good news is that you do not necessarily need the genocide treaty to prosecute, because we have already regulated it in our legislation. But genocide also has a very heavy burden of proof. That is one of the main reasons why a different charge is often chosen. It can be proved, but it would be acquitted on the charge of genocide. If we don't want one thing, it's that people are acquitted when we've seen things happen. But we will undoubtedly have that discussion when the cabinet response comes. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna... Let's see...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u350	Mr Van Ojik, do you have a question or are you waiting?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u351	Is the minister moving on to the next block?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u352	No, I have one short comment to make on this front. Mr De Roon asked about the endgame in Syria. We are going to speak in this house about extending missions. Hopefully that will happen soon and then we will go into it in great detail. The general line of the cabinet I can give you in advance. The fact that ISIS has been largely defeated above ground does not mean that ISIS is gone and that we can leave. At a committee meeting where some of you were present, I gave an example of a recent sandstorm in the border area between Syria and Iraq. ISIS had disappeared there, but was present again above ground two days later, when the sandstorm was raged. Two days couldn't be flown by the coalition, and then they resurfaced. In that respect, it's like weeds. We have to take that into account. This also means that longer attendance is needed to prevent us from regretting leaving too early. Now you have an impression of the cabinet's commitment. There is no doubt that we are going to have a great deal of further discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u353	I see that there is still a lot of opportunity to talk about this. Yesterday, in my first term, I asked one question that was written off. That question was also about the final battle against IS, which may not yet be a complete final battle, as the Minister says. There are often reports that there would be orders for liquidation. Coalition members would say to their military, "Don't make prisoners of war." I'm just saying it in my own words. That question has been answered in writing. The Minister said: I do not know; if that were to happen, it would be contrary to humanitarian law of war, but I do not know. I would like to ask the Minister to put a little bit of effort on top of that, because these messages appear regularly. I read a quote in the newspaper of the US Secretary of State tonight. He said to the press: it is our intention not to allow foreign jihadists to survive the battles. That's a quote from the U.S. Secretary of State. That is a statement that one might suspect may be contrary to the same humanitarian war law to which we both attach such great importance. Other countries, including Denmark, are also mentioned, I think. I would therefore ask the Minister to clarify this matter better than just to say: we do not know anything about it. I think that's a little too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u354	For this kind of thing, they're serious accusations. Just asking the question is one thing: gosh, I heard you say no prisoners are being taken. Then you better make sure you have proof, too, and I don't. At the moment when war law is violated and we see it, you can expect us to express our displeasure about it, and I will say it mildly to countries that do so, especially if they are still allies. But care requires, especially with allies, that you do not arrive with: I hear this; what is this? No, you'll have to prove it, too. Then I'll run for you, but I'm just trying to keep myself from being sent out with accusing rumors. I hear the rumors, too, but rumors are different from facts. I only want to act when there are facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u355	I probably cannot provide those facts, but I read in the newspaper that the US Secretary of State says: it is our intention that jihadists do not survive the battle. Maybe the quote doesn't add up, but then it's good to know, right? Then the American colleague probably says to this minister: yes, that's in the newspaper with you, but I really didn't say that. It's in everyone's best interest to know that. I therefore call on the Minister not to be too cautious on that point. I'm not insinuating anything. I hear rumors and I read quotes that worry me. It seems to me to be perfectly legitimate to ask for clarification on this matter. If he has been miscited, I think it is a good thing that we all know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u356	I think you should be very careful in this kind of international relationship. Secondly, America is also simply a rule of law and democracy, with a parliament that deals with these matters. I remember having a similar discussion around an election debate in this house. At that time, the Dutch Parliament also took its controlling task extremely seriously. In America, it's not gonna be any different. If a country guarantees these kinds of systems itself, I want to ensure that the Netherlands arrives immediately with: I hear these kinds of things, how exactly is that? If the Netherlands were to find out that our trainers or troops are catching or seeing things that prove this story, then I or my colleague of Defense and therefore the cabinet, and then we have a different situation. Then we have reason to address them. That is the situation in allegiance. I believe that you should have confidence in the correct functioning of a democratic rule of law. I think America proves it is every day. If the American president announces cases that are unconstitutional, they will be properly corrected in the legal system. You shouldn't walk through that, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u357	Another closing sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u358	We fight in one coalition. We have a common responsibility. I believe that this gives the Minister not only the right but also the duty to ask such critical questions to our allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u359	I actually wanted to go on where Mr Van Ojik stopped. I understand, however, that the Minister is not necessarily waiting to present all kinds of rumors to colleagues. Indeed, that would not do the proportions any good. But these are more than rumors. These are statements, including those made by the United States Secretary of State. The Minister could at least ask how to interpret it. Precisely because we are allies, there should be room for that. I'd like to give that to the Minister. In addition, we will soon have another ambassador here, who will be very welcomed by the cabinet. I think that is a good time to discuss this with him. That doesn't have to be with a lifted finger, but this deserves an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u360	But I'm not gonna do that kind of thing because of a statement in a newspaper, attributed to a colleague. It's not like I'm not gonna do that because it's an ally. We are talking about a rule of law with a parliament that does its job. If the American Minister did make this statement, then I know the American Parliament well enough to know that a whole battery of Members and senators are going to like it. I believe that we should allow this kind of process in a democratic rule of law, especially if it is also an ally. We don't have to climb into the phone right away or to an ambassador who has to come first, so ask him what's going on. No, this minister is off the line: states of law are states of law, democracies are democracies. Let them do their job and don't run right through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u361	It is right that the Minister wondered why the Netherlands did not know about the evacuation of fighters from Raqqa when he heard about it. That was also about allies and it happened in the region where we work with each other. This isn't that different in itself. Again, it's not just unproven rumors. I understand very well that the Minister wouldn't want to do anything about it. But it seems extraordinary to me to ask an ally about what you read in the media. It is about the fact that we stand together to bring peace and justice there. Then you can just ask: how am I supposed to read that statement or did the newspaper write it wrong? I would ask the Minister to sleep on it again for a short night. Maybe he'll think it's a good idea. It's kind of a fact check with the Americans. That's how he should see it; no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u362	Clear. I took a look at my job description, but fact checking wasn't there. I'm going to disappoint Mrs Ploumen anyway. I'm sticking to what I just said. In the Raqqa example, things turned out to be the way they are. Yeah, well, let's see how that got there. But if an American minister says something in an American newspaper and American democracy is the first move, I am not going to run through it immediately as a Dutch minister. I'm just not gonna do that, not even tomorrow after a night's sleep.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u363	Something that the Dutch Foreign Minister can do about is a subject that I raised yesterday during the first term. I have seen a written response to that. We started this debate today with the interlinkage between foreign policy and its effects on the interior. One of the issues that will often come back to this issue in the near future is terrorism. I asked yesterday how the Minister looks at banning symbols and flags that glorify terrorism. The answer to this in the written reply was that this is not the case. My question is why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u364	I'm gonna have to dig. I know about the line of response, but I don't know everything exactly. The essence of what Mr Kuzu said was that he sometimes sees PKK flags when he walks out. PKK is a terrorist organization. He asked me what I'd think if there were IS flags at the door. I'd hate to hear that. So I understand that you, Mr. Kuzu, find the PKK flags horrible. But neither one of them is forbidden. There is one flag banned in the Netherlands and that is the Nazi flag, the swastika. It's illegal and the rest isn't. But I can understand the feeling extremely well. I remember the discussions in this house about demonstrations in The Hague where IS slogans were called and IS flags waved. We have had extensive debates on this in this House, with widely differing opinions. What is freedom of speech? What should or should not be banned? But the question was: should the PKK flag be banned? Let me make a comparison with the IS flag. It's not illegal, either. I do not like either because they are terrorist organisations and they are symbols for that, but they are not prohibited. That's freedom of speech. It's okay in this country. That's a big good. That doesn't mean you have to be happy about it, by the way. I understand very well that Mr Kuzu is not going to be. I can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u365	My group makes no distinction between the flag of IS, Daesh, or the flag of the PKK. As far as we are concerned, they are both terrorist organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u366	I didn't want to insinuate that you thought differently about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u367	The question I asked yesterday was not: why did one flag and the other flag not? It was just about the feeling. Why do we have a shrugging feeling at one flag and why do we have parliamentary debates at the other flag and talk about it for a very long time? Why don't we draw one line after German? That's exactly my question. In Germany, symbols and flags of terrorist organisations are prohibited. Why don't we do that in the Netherlands? The Minister's reply in the written reply was: it is not now on the agenda. My specific question is why this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u368	Again, I can't quite get back exactly how we wrote it down. But the essence of it is that I understand very well the feeling that Mr Kuzu indicates. I don't want to take anything away from that either. I didn't mean to imply that you found one flag worse than the other. Let that misunderstanding go, all right. I didn't have the impression you were implying that. Why isn't it on the agenda? Why don't we do it? We have one forbidden flag. Then you can go for the German movement, namely: forbid the IS flag. That is what Mr Kuzu is actually saying. In fact, the CDA also brought that into the discussion at that time. But I'd call that a sort of soap slip in the area of freedom of speech. The question is, where do you end up? 'Cause that's the one flag. Then there's another flag and then there's another flag. And then you have a doubt organization. It's coming off, too. Before you know it, you're out of line. The majority in this house then believed that preaching hatred is criminal. The cabinet also indicated this in the coalition agreement. In fact, the cabinet believes that this should be extra punished and that the legislation should be adapted accordingly. But freedom of expression, as it is, has also been secured and designed by the cabinet. This means that this freedom of expression is as broad as possible, as the current legislation actually is. This is very unheimic. I'll admit that immediately. Both flags don't make me happy. The organizations they represent have something on their mind. But it's part of freedom of speech. Then we'll be back with Mrs. Karabulut. The circle is almost complete, if I don't have to talk about nuclear weapons anymore, so that's not gonna work. You give the right to freedom of speech to others here. This is without prejudice to the fact that acts are punishable. And those acts are further punished in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u369	Of course, everyone is entitled to his or her opinion, but we are talking here about glorifying terrorism on the basis of flag show and symbol show. There are countries in the world that have forbidden that. Germany is an example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u370	This is your final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u371	The Minister cannot tell me that freedom of expression in Germany is at stake because of this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u372	But a country like America goes even further than we do in freedom of speech. It's almost absolutely there. We have Dutch legislation here. In the coalition agreement, we have made it quite clear that we are going to punish hate-sowing more severely. The actual difference is: think or do. Hatred and calls for violence are acts that are punishable, must be arrested and even punished more severely. No matter how reprehensible: these kinds of expressions are part of thinking. This wasn't a pun, I'm sorry. It's okay to think. It's a fine and sometimes uncomfortable line, but it's the only line that lasts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u373	It's late and I actually only have one suggestion to the Minister. The minister just said that we are going to talk about the missions; rightly so. We didn't really talk about it at all, but I just want to give him a suggestion about the 500 victims who died in that terrible earthquake on the border of Iraq and Iran. I am getting signals that, on the Iraqi side, the Kurds are not receiving support from Baghdad. I think that is a very disturbing signal. We're sitting there with our mission. I'll pass on the suggestion and the distress. If we could do something for the Kurds in Sulaymaniya and our soldiers near the border region, that would be a very nice gesture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u374	We're sitting there on a training mission. You should always be careful not to put people in one situation that they are really not prepared for. I take seriously the signal given by Mr Voordewind, namely that the Kurds must be treated fairly. The Kurds' referendum was, in our opinion, unwise. We warned them about that. They also took a step back; they froze it. We say, like European allies, to the Iraqi Government: you are trying to enter into dialogue and now you must return to a certain balance, but agreements have been made with the Kurds on the design of autonomy and on financial flows. 17% of the budget should go to Kurdish territory, but that is not the case now. These kinds of signals are just bad, too. They feed the instability. The Netherlands will certainly make an effort to ensure that this does not lead to an increase in instability. On the contrary, we want to go back to old agreements to ensure stability in the region. Dan, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u375	The disarmament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u376	Yes, the disarmament. It was about nuclear weapons and the treaty on a ban on them. Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Karabulut asked whether we would seek membership of the new Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The answer to that is no. Before everyone gets into the stress, there's gonna be good news. The treaty is here. It is what it is and there is nothing to change. My predecessor informed the Chamber by letter of 14 July that the outcome of the negotiations was not acceptable to us. I mentioned why. It must be verifiable, the non-proliferation treaty must not be undermined and it must be consistent with our NATO membership. Those are the three criteria. Mr Van Ojik asked: can you do something on those criteria? Verification, for example, is essential. The nuclear weapons ban is above the present one, so the non-proliferation treaty is designed and the verification is less well regulated in this treaty. That is very unwise, because I would like to mention just a few things about the Iranian atomic deal, for example, the verification is very important. There will be verification of compliance with the agreements. In this treaty, you are obliged to rely on the blue-eye principle. When a country says "we're gonna keep it," they're supposed to live up to it, and we think that's too skinny. The second thing to be verified is that you do need the cooperation of the nuclear states. And they all said, "We're out of the game." We have a treaty and that is good, but the countries involved are not in it. That too is difficult to circumvent. And yes, we also have commitments within NATO that we will honour. I fully agree with this cabinet that we must continue to strive for a nuclear-free world. To be honest, I can't imagine people finding anything else. Nuclear weapons are terrible things, especially when they're deployed. But there is also the crux, because one of the reasons why nuclear weapons are not used is balance, balance, deterrent. What should not be done is that, mildly formulated, one of the things that lies ahead of this Treaty is that that balance, that balance, that balance, is upset. Unilateral disarmament, including nuclear weapons, is simply unwise. What can we do? Last Monday, I visited NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg and I discussed this extensively with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u377	I waited because I thought you might have had the point of disarmament. Mrs Karabulut has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u378	I don't think I need to explain to this minister the consequences of the atomic bomb. 70 years ago, a bomb fell on Hiroshima and hundreds of thousands of people are still suffering the consequences. Humanity just can't handle it. I was at part of those negotiations and I was very pleased with the commitment of the Netherlands. Now it is up to politics, this minister, to follow up on this. The Non-Proliferation Treaty is part of the prohibition treaty. I simply do not believe that there could be any possibility of working with both nuclear and non-nuclear states towards signing. I think that should be possible because more than 100 countries, including other European countries, have signed this convention. We must do the same because we, the Netherlands, want this. We don't want nuclear weapons. The Minister also says he wants to move to a nuclear-free world, because we no longer want Hiroshima.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u379	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u380	And those nuclear weapons are now much stronger than they were then. My question is why the Minister does not want to do his best to proceed to the signing of this treaty, for which a Nobel Prize has been awarded to IBAN. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u381	Because the treaty is now the treaty. The treaty is no longer in negotiation and in adaptation. It's the treaty there is. You either sign it or you don't sign it. For the sake of what the treaty has become, the Netherlands has said: we do not sign this treaty. I just gave you the reasons. We do not do that, among other things, because certain verification mechanisms are simply weakened by this treaty. To be honest, I think that is a very convincing argument, because that is simply unwise. The balance must remain in balance, because I do not want Hiroshima or Nagasaki. The Cold War has shown that nuclear weapons were not used in a world in which nuclear weapons are present. And sometimes that was even a lot of nuclear weapons. I don't want to go there, let that be clear! Yeah, it needs to go down, to zero, in balanced steps. Then I come to my conversation with Stoltenberg. Well, that's relevant to this. Of course, he also asked me, "What are you gonna do in there?" I said to him: this is the situation, but we do want to go to zero, and what does NATO want? Stoltenberg was very clear: NATO also wants to go to zero, but not on its own. Mr Stoltenberg, at my insistence, made a very explicit commitment: let NATO act on that point. He didn't mean to sit still with the idea that the Russians wouldn't want to and that we wouldn't do anything either. You can make suggestions. Stay active as NATO acting in the international field to try to get the number down. This requires that we do not take a step in the sense that we drive a few hundred nuclear weapons out the door and see if the Russians follow. That's unwise. But you can make suggestions, as it started at some point around the START treaties: we are prepared to take these steps; are you prepared to go along with them? Then you're acting. If the Russians come along, you can actually go. You should also take the Chinese with you. The world has, of course, become very complex. That is why it is so important that we do not undermine the Non-Proliferation Treaty. It is no longer the simple world of Russia, NATO and China. We also have North Korea. We have Pakistan. And according to foreign sources they also seem to be in Israel. So the world has only become more complex, so it has become even more complex to take those steps. Everyone's looking at other players, and everyone's afraid they're gonna upset the balance. Nevertheless...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u382	I hope that your answer to this question has actually dealt with your whole block. Mrs Karabulut has the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u383	I'll be quiet immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u384	Indeed, we live in a world of Trump and Kim Jong-un, and that is dangerous. The minister says, "I want to go to zero." NATO wants to go to zero. Okay, then let's start with the Minister informing us when the modernisation program is taking place. Also in the Netherlands we seem to have nuclear weapons, in Volkel, American. It is not exactly the case that the Americans are working on fewer nuclear weapons. But in modernising they pump a lot of money; okay, that's the sign of NATO that it wants to go to zero. But we Dutch want to go to zero. That is something we could achieve. Is the Minister prepared to inform us, the representative of the people, as to when this modernisation programme will take place, and to contact the Americans with: Mr Zijlstra, can I have the bombs, please, for modernisation? So can he give us a heads-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u385	I'm just trying to get a picture of how that would go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u386	A tweet, probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u387	A tweet, yes. As you know, the Dutch Government does not comment on whether or not nuclear weapons are present on Dutch soil. We have an obligation within NATO in the field of nuclear tasks. That obligation applies to all countries. No Member State reports where weapons are or are not present, not even by this government. Modernisation is also wise. You have to keep those bitches because they're bitches too, whether they're in the Netherlands or in France or wherever; frankly, I don't care. We want to maintain that balance. The best balance is that no one has them, but that will be a challenge with Kim Jong-un, I guess. But if they are there, in whatever amount, in a balance that gives no one in the world the idea of "let me press a button," then there are nuclear weapons in certain countries. Once again, where that is, we are not communicating at all. Then it is wise to keep them modern and safe. Modernisation is also security. You don't want things to go off because they've gotten too old. So I don't see any wisdom at all in not modernising nuclear weapons. Frankly, this is true both on our side and on those of the opponents, because there too, you do not allow the population to go into a depot at some point in time where these weapons may lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u388	Mrs Karabulut, final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u389	I'm sorry, but we're the people's representatives. If these things are transported, we, including the local authorities, have at least the right to know, because they can be dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u390	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u391	The Americans are open about their modernisation programme. Can't we, as a chamber, get that information? If necessary, confidentially.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u392	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u393	The government will always act within all the treaties approved by the Chamber and with the obligations arising therefrom and inform the Chamber according to its obligations. We wouldn't dare not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u394	Let's get back to the politics of the little steps. I was a little encouraged by what the Minister said. The nuclear weapons treaty is now what it is, we're not signing it like that. But I can hear him say, also in connection with his conversation with Stoltenberg, that taking a strategy of small steps and getting the others involved could be helpful in not disrupting the balance and ultimately coming to a nuclear-free world. With that in mind: how does the Minister see the role of the Netherlands now? What steps could we suggest now? What things could we do now to keep the conversation going and to get it going again in some respects? We might think "we're not gonna sign that treaty and that's it," but that would be a little economical. I can imagine, maybe we should have another time about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u395	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u396	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u397	Again, the treaty is clear. It is what it is, that cannot be changed anymore and that simply does not meet the conditions in which you should take steps. That's not the end of it. It is not for nothing that I raised this in the first conversation with Stoltenberg on Monday. I'll keep doing that. Because this isn't gonna work out in this treaty context... This will work because we are able from NATO, the Netherlands, hopefully we can get other countries to give a push and say: boys, make proposals. You have to make proposals to reduce and then see if other nuclear powers want back in balance. If they don't want to, we can make a deal until we get one way, but nothing's gonna change. My efforts will continue to be directed towards continuing to push within NATO, because ultimately an alliance such as NATO is going to have to take steps, but it will also have to take steps for China and Russia, because there are nuclear weapons facilities there. Everyone's gonna look at the other one, so it's either a switch or everybody's gonna stay put. My ambition is to make sure that steps can be taken. That means pressing in NATO, seeing if countries want to join and make proposals. If China and Russia say they don't want to, we're not crazy, but at least we tried. Maybe it'll work out later than it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u398	I am pleased to note that the Minister wants to play an active role and that we will certainly be discussing what this role is and what steps can be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u399	It is a difficult dossier, because you can also see that the Americans, because they do not believe in the fact that the Russians might want to act. You see a development on the Russian side, let's not run away from that either. Let me put it this way. We must avoid creating a situation where they say: 'Don't let that disarmament happen, we are going to focus on non-proliferation of others, such as North Korea or countries where there is nothing yet.' The Netherlands' commitment is to ensure that it runs in parallel, that we simply use Article 6 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty widely and try to combat disarmament, but also non-proliferation. There is a tendency to want to separate it, because there is some kind of pessimism about the chance of success in bringing it back. I see it as one of my tasks to try to keep that flame alive, because it's just terrible things. Each less nuclear weapon is one. But it's balanced. Mr. Chairman. This seems to me to be a wonderful statement to end with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u400	I couldn't agree more. At least that's what you're gonna end up with. I'm looking at the members. Shall we suspend for two minutes? Five minutes? Of course. There's a need to suspend for five minutes. Mr. Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u401	Just a little longer. This is the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u402	Oh, excuse me. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u403	Well, no, I mean, there's gonna be a couple more blocks now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u404	No, we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u405	Can I ask a question about the written reply? Can I do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u406	Is it about this particular block?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u407	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u408	Then I would ask you to do so in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u409	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u410	We are going to continue the debate with the second term of the Chamber. We have agreed that there will be no interruption in the second term, except for Mrs Ploumen. She gets two because she wasn't allowed to be interrupted in her first term. That is what we have decided. But she only gets two, otherwise we're gonna have to take a breakfast break and we're not gonna do that. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u411	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. I think that it was indeed excellent because of clarity, and that should certainly be recalled. Thank you very much for that. That doesn't mean I was satisfied with all the answers, so that's why I have a few motions. I'm gonna recite it right away, given the advanced timing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and to move the Dutch embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u412	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Netherlands will take a seat on the UN Security Council in 2018;]] [[noting that the Netherlands wishes to draw attention to "the root causes" of conflicts with the UN Security Council;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint Islam as the cause of jihadist terror and to lobby the other members for an official statement on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u413	I forgot to mention in my first motion that it was co-signed by Mr Wilders and I would like to correct that. The third motion concerns Turkey. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Turkey seriously violates civil liberties, such as freedom of the press and freedom of expression;]] [[Whereas the financial support of an authoritarian regime which is increasingly away from democratic and constitutional principles is extremely undesirable;]] [[noting that Brussels does not want to terminate the accession aid to Turkey directly and completely;]] [[whereas the Netherlands should not wait for measures from Brussels and act independently;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the Dutch part of the accession aid to Turkey (proportionally) on the EU's payments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Roon and Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u414	I must say that yesterday, when I referred to a motion on the Armenian genocide two and a half years ago, I was wrong when I claimed that it had been adopted. She was rejected, though there was a large minority in favour of that motion. So I wanted to correct that mistake, but I would also like to give the Chamber the opportunity to correct its mistake at that time, and that is why I am tabling a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is broad scientific recognition that the Armenian genocide should be classified as genocide;]] [[calls on the government not (longer) to talk about "the issue of the Armenian genocide" but about "the Armenian genocide,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Roon and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u415	Then I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u416	Thank you. You have made friends in your group, because you have given them three minutes of speaking time in other budgets. Then I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u417	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin, of course, by congratulating Mrs Ploumen on her maiden speech. She mentioned a number of times the new relevance. I checked it again. I also found this debate to be of a high degree of new relevance. It was short and clear in the answer, but also light-footed in a certain way. So maybe we saw some of the creativity that I was talking about again. I liked to hear that the new Foreign Minister in his introduction seemed to support a new principle and that was the principle "do not let your principles stand in the way of your ideals." Maybe we can agree to that. The freedom of speech he sang, quoting Voltaire, is something we should be very concerned about right now. It has been somewhat underexplored in this debate, but you can also see in our interiors the Minister spoke about this: foreign policy in the interior................................................................................................................................................................... We saw it in the American election. We saw it at the Brexit. We saw it in the French elections. We saw it with all the referenda in Europe. We heard a few days ago from the Spanish Government about the Catalan referendum. We see it around attacks in Hamburg, in London. We saw it again recently in a debate that took place here. The Russian Ministry of Defence performed it to make a copy of a game, a game and to present it as evidence of so-called cooperation between IS and the US. There is even a Member of Parliament in this Chamber who repeated this. Unfortunately, he is not in the debate today. I can't talk to him about that here. But worry about it, Mr. Chairman. They're also addressed today. I would like to mention a particular concern which I did not raise in the first term. It is about another part of our external borders policy. It has been a lot about migration, but there is also a threat of migration, albeit to a lesser extent, from Venezuela. I want to be brief. It's late. Our kingdom shares a long border with Venezuela. We have also asked some questions about this in the past. The EU has now announced new sanctions. That's good. I want to know from the Secretary of State whether we're getting along with the Americans right now. I would also like to suggest to him whether that might not be wise, because then we can also influence the Americans, perhaps. I think this is important because of our special position. In any case, I would like him to be a little more assertive than the previous minister. That should be possible because the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, our former colleague Mr Knops, has tabled a motion with me on this matter. It seems to me that there is a need for assertive action. Mr. Chairman. In the context of this new commerciality. This debate was also about what should be realpolitik, what are the choices you have to make. I was accused by a number of speakers that there was not much difference. It's all the same as it once was. I've been looking at it a little bit, including in those party programmes that we're all separating from foreign policy. And I don't see it. I do not see how you can achieve a nuclear-free world and global agreements through unilateral disarmament. That you think you're getting women behind the wheel in Riyadh on a motion from The Hague. That you think you're promoting lhbt rights in Africa by financing gay prides from Europe. That you think you can enforce peacekeeping in Uruzgan without adequate armament or a mandate of violence. There are parties who argue for that. That you want a humanitarian intervention to prevent genocide in Benghazi, but that you do not want the American Fifth Fleet or NATO to interfere. I can't. That you want to free Jezidis from Mount Sinjar, but you can't bomb for that. That you want to defeat ISIS by arresting warriors instead of liquidating them. That you beat ISIS without going to Syria. That you think you can free the Palestinians by locking them in a non-existent state. That you can break ties with countries and then demand a conversation with your human rights ambassador. Those are exactly the differences that matter. Those are the moments when you have to have the courage to make choices. And those choices are best summarized with "new relevance." Mr. Chairman. There's a correction I was hoping to make. This has to do with the written response to a letter on the Dutch Regional Partnership Fund. We would like to see an increase in it. I'm gonna read you a motion right now. The motion was also signed by Mrs Ploumen, I say with some pride. Mr Servaes will be pleased. Give him my best. That concludes my second term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2015 the Chamber by means of the Servaes/Ten Broeke motion (34400, no. 26) called on the government to mobilise additional resources through social transition programmes to contribute to achieving stability in the ring around Europe;]] [[noting the positive experience of these programmes and their visible results in North Africa, the Middle East and Eastern Europe;]] [[noting that the Demissionary Cabinet did not include in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the year 2018 the increase in the NFRP budget requested in the Servaes/Ten Broeke motion;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal as soon as possible to alleviate this reversal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Ploumen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u418	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank all those who have given us the opportunity to hold this debate for so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u419	Thank you. And you have one minute left, too. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u420	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister. I thought it was an interesting debate. It is also good to hear what exactly is meant by this new realism. Mr Ten Broeke has taken some time to give more substance to this. To what extent this translates into Dutch policy, we must, of course, wait and see. It is a little late to discuss it now. I see in a number of things that have changed tonight, a lot of continuity. I'm happy about that in itself. That foreign policy, for example, is domestic policy, I remember, to name one more, from a minister, Mr Van Mierlo, who recalibrated foreign policy from that point of view. In my view, we all believe that we should have a realistic foreign policy. No one's against it. We all agree that we must be particularly effective and not just pursue our ideals and principles without paying attention to possible results. I believe this minister is also from that school. I think we can say that we are talking about constant factors that have been dominant in Dutch foreign policy for a long time. This does not, of course, mean that we have been given the assurances of the Minister on all points in this debate that I had asked him in the first term or in the interruptions. That's why I still have a few motions. The first motion was motivated by my deep desire to make Dutch foreign policy greener. I spoke about this yesterday and today in some of the interruptions. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pressure is being put on people who are defending nature and agricultural land against large-scale economic activities and are increasingly victims of violence;]] [[Whereas the loss of precious agricultural land puts pressure on livelihoods and deforestation contributes to the destruction of ecosystems and climate change;]] [[calls on the Government to pay particular attention, within the human rights programme, to supporting conservationists who are persecuted or threatened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Ploumen, Mr Kuzu and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u421	I too am proud to say that the motion has been co-signed by Mrs Ploumen, just like Mr Ten Broeke. I congratulate her on the beautiful maiden speech. Then I have another motion aimed at the greening of Dutch foreign policy. It's about Nord Stream. Questions I had raised on this matter have been answered in writing by the Cabinet. I am going to try to take a shot at the position announced by the Minister. I hope that the Chamber will call on the Minister to adopt the following position. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Nord Stream 2 pipeline perpetuates our energy dependence on Russia, maintains our dependence on natural gas and increases the vulnerability of Eastern Europe;]] [[Whereas dependence on fossil fuels needs to be reduced in order to achieve the climate objectives;]] [[Whereas the relationship with Russia needs to be reviewed and diversification of sources, suppliers and supply routes is necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to support in this spirit the European Commission's proposal to bring gas pipelines originating outside the EU under the Energy Union so that the EU can achieve the objective of a reliable and sustainable energy supply,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u422	Then I have a final motion in response to the discussion we had on the observance of humanitarian war law and what the Minister said about it. Actually, he says he wants to see hard evidence before he takes action towards the allies. However, I would like to call him on the understanding that there is at least enough evidence at the moment. Let me say 'instructions', let me express myself very precisely. There are sufficient indications, which is why I would like to refer the following ruling to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observeing reports of targeted liquidating of IS fighters by France, the UK and the US;]] [[noting that the Cabinet does not seem to have any independent information on this matter;]] [[calls on the Government to seek information within the coalition against IS on possible violations of the Geneva Conventions and to ask for safeguards to ensure compliance with these Conventions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u423	Mr. Chairman. I see I have 13 seconds left. I would very much like to use it to thank you and everyone who has this debate so late with this brand-new minister, as I said yesterday. We're going to have a lot of debates. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u424	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u425	I only have two minutes, Mr. Chairman, so I'm gonna get started real quick. First of all, congratulations to Mrs Ploumen on her maiden speech. It is good that there are now three Limburgers on this committee. It is not only a matter of patience for Holland, but also for the whole of the rest of the world. Mr. Chairman. I would like to return to Mrs Karabulut's question on the modernisation of American nuclear weapons. I was a little shocked when the minister opened the door saying, "What's not broken is not to be repaired." I thought, "Is he talking about those nuclear weapons?" But that was about something else. The CDA is in favour of this modernisation. Of course, the CDA is aiming for a nuclear-free world, but in balance, as the Minister so well said, and within the agreements we have in NATO. I will do the question about the written questions later, because I will not be able to do so in time. I'm going to move on to the motion I'd like to table. As I said, I think it is right that the Court should make a ruling on that very important issue of combating, prosecuting and prosecuting ISIS fighters. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that during the period of membership of the Netherlands of the United Nations Security Council, the government intends, inter alia, to promote the fight against terrorism, but that an explicit reference to the fight against ISIS and the trial of ISIS fighters is missing from the letter on the engagement of the Kingdom;]] [[noting that the fight against ISIS, as well as the recognition, prosecution and trial of the barbaric crimes of this terrorist organisation, are of great importance;]] [[whereas the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, parliaments in the UK, Canada and the US, as well as the US Government and the independent international UN Commission of Inquiry for Syria consider that ISIS is responsible for genocide;]] [[Whereas the obligation to punish genocide already applies in the event of a reliable identification of a serious risk of imminent genocide;]] [[calls on the Government to actively engage in the UN Security Council and to come forward with proposals for the fight against ISIS and the prosecution and trial of ISIS fighters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Helvert, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u426	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u427	I now give the floor to Mrs Karabulut of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u428	Mr. Chairman. Head's off. Congratulations to Mrs Ploumen and to this Minister. I look forward to the many debates we will have. For the sake of time, I immediately move on to my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that after more than 16 years of war against terrorism there are not less but more terrorist attacks, including against the West, and organisations such as Al-Qaeda have not been defeated, but have just increased in strength and extent;]] [[considers that the fight against terrorism should be effective;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct and provide financial resources for an independent investigation to find explanations for the counterproductive results of the war against terrorism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the violence of war in Yemen has resulted in more than ten thousand deaths, large flows of refugees, a cholera epidemic and an unprecedented humanitarian crisis;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is joining the UN Security Council next year, where such issues of war and peace are on the agenda;]] [[Considers that no opportunity should be missed to contribute to the end of the immense suffering in Yemen;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider the war in Yemen as a priority during the year in the Security Council and to take initiatives to end military actions, including ending all forms of military support to the warring parties, and to improve humanitarian access to the area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that hundreds of demonstrators have been arrested in the northern region of Rif in Morocco over the past year and that years of imprisonment are hanging over their heads;]] [[noting that human rights organisations claim that many have been arrested while peacefully demonstrating;]] [[calls on the Government, in contact with the Moroccan authorities, to call for the release of these peaceful demonstrators;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to ensure that trials against demonstrators are conducted fairly and in accordance with international standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that human rights in Turkey are increasingly under serious pressure;]] [[Considering that the President of Amnesty International is in prison in Turkey and calling on human rights organisations to release him immediately and that charges against him are withdrawn;]] [[calls on the Government to give its explicit support to this call,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas reports of American nuclear weapons on Dutch soil are regularly being published and are going back to the US for some time due to an expensive modernisation process;]] [[noting that the Americans are transparent about their nuclear weapons and modernisation programme;]] [[Whereas the Dutch parliament does not know when the American nuclear weapons will be transported and transported;]] [[considers that this hampers the controlling role of the parliament;]] [[calls on the government to be transparent about US nuclear weapons stationed in Volkel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-22]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-23]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-24]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u429	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u430	Thank you. You have a whole minute left. Then I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u431	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply and, of course, congratulate Mrs Ploumen on her beautiful maiden speech. As far as I am concerned, there were two points at the heart of the debate. The first point is bringing ideals closer. Preferably with jumps, but, if you have to, with steps. In this discussion between the desirable and the feasible, I thought another intermediate solution might be nice: ideals are the most feasible. The second point of this debate is continuity. Much of the good work of the previous cabinet, and that is also the good work for which we should be grateful to Mrs Ploumen in her previous post, is being continued. But then with just a little more money for foreign affairs, for development cooperation, for defence, for human rights and for human rights, so I say to Mrs Ploumen, a little more European than it was. Yesterday she complained a little bit about the length of the European paragraph. It's twice as long. I am not even talking about all the things that are going on about asylum, about the European Public Prosecutor's Office: that is a debate for the next time, and about the attention to nuclear disarmament and arms exports. Continuity, therefore, and I could not escape the impression that there was occasionally a bit of disappointment about that continuity. However, the differences between Minister Zijlstra and group chairman Zijlstra were explicitly sought. But I think that the differences between Minister Koenders and Minister Zijlstra may be smaller than those between Minister Zijlstra and group chairman Zijlstra, so I paraphrase a colleague of mine. Mr. Chairman. Universal human rights, a sensible subsidy policy and migration policy, which I saw as a step forward, even Mr Van Ojik think: well, did we just let it go? But I'm sure we're gonna talk about that around here sometime. Right to asylum, yes. Non-refoulement, yes. Better conditions for migration deals, yes. I would also like to add that, because we did not actually talk about this: we are also going to resettle more people than ever, Mr Van Ojik. I see you're at the Interrupt Microphone. There's something you want to tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u432	We agreed we weren't gonna do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u433	No, I provoked it, Madam President. I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u434	You really provoked it. Yeah, that's kind of true. Well, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u435	At some point in the debate, someone said "I honestly don't know who it was that Jomanda was sitting behind the speaker chair." No, it was with the Prime Minister this afternoon. Now it seems as if Jomanda is standing here behind the chair, because he even saw me think something. That's very interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u436	I saw that frown disappear off your face. I have one more question for this Minister, despite the hour. It's something to consider and not necessarily answer now. If we can tighten up the priorities for the Security Council, I would like to give you one more thing. This is linked to what this Minister has also talked to Stoltenberg about, namely those nuclear weapons. Because I think that's the platform where you can talk about nuclear weapons. This is also in line with what Mr Ten Broeke himself suggested in 2015. He thought it was a good idea for the debate at PAX to take a turn here in the Security Council. I therefore hope that the Minister will take that into consideration. Then my motion. Three times is a charm. It's been suggested three times. Now we're really gonna do something for journalists in need. I am very grateful for that, partly on behalf of my coalition parties VVD, CDA and Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas freedom of the press is a major asset;]] [[whereas journalists are the defenders of free speech;]] [[noting that journalists worldwide are threatened by the practice of their profession;]] [[Considering that in some countries journalists end up in prison without any form of fair trial and lack of adequate legal assistance due to a lack of financial resources;]] [[Whereas journalists face difficulties in the form of, inter alia, security training, obtaining insurance and legal aid;]] [[calls on the government to release funds within the Human Rights Fund to support Dutch and foreign journalists in need,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Voordewind and Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u437	Mr President, I hope that these 45 seconds will also be allowed to go to my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u438	I saw on the list that we finished it upstairs. So you'll just have a minute. Then I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u439	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the colleagues for the warm welcomes. This is just the beginning, I'd like to say to them. Many thanks also to the Minister for all the answers and explanations. There is no doubt that we are going to talk a great deal about the issues that have been discussed today and yesterday. I look forward to that; let me say that. In our first confrontation, the Minister has disappointed me, well, confrontation is a great word for what has happened, though, with his rejection of the Netherlands' commitment to a thematic sanction regime. I am disappointed because he is failing the Netherlands. I quote his own words: 'We must bring into the Security Council where we can make a difference and where we have built credibility'. That's right here. I am also disappointed because, in the words of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, structural violence against women continues in conflict, which not only destabilises families and communities, but also destabilises a country, and makes reconciliation much more difficult. In this respect too, such a thematic sanction regime is therefore a good thing. It is a robust mechanism, which may not be easy to achieve; I do not take anything away from it. But the Netherlands would do itself credit if it did make a start. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that sexual violence against women in conflict areas is too often unpunished;]] [[Considering that the Secretary-General of the United Nations has called for concrete steps to improve the protection of women in conflict areas and that the UN Security Council may establish thematic sanctions regimes;]] [[also noted that during the debate on the Government Declaration, the Cabinet expressed its intention to continue to defend women's rights internationally;]] [[believes that the Netherlands can play an important pioneering role in supporting women who are victims of sexual violence in conflict areas;]] [[calls on the Government to work in the UN Security Council to establish a thematic sanction regime to punish sexual violence against women,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Karabulut and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u440	Mr. Chairman. I have a second motion. It's about moving to a nuclear-free world. I heard the minister right. His willingness to be active and to take smart steps fills me with approval and joy. I have a concrete proposal for it, which I have tabled in a motion. It's not meant to be the only road map, but it's probably one that we can start with. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet wishes to actively engage in a nuclear-free world within the framework of its all-encompassing obligations;]] [[noting that the Netherlands was the only NATO Member State present in the discussion on the International Treaty for the Abolition of Nuclear Weapons;]] [[Notes that there are a number of European States, namely Ireland, Austria, Malta, Moldova, San Marino, Switzerland, Sweden, Cyprus, Liechtenstein and Vatican City, which have signed the International Treaty for the Abolition of Nuclear Weapons;]] [[calls on the Government to give further concrete expression to the bridge function it plays between nuclear powers and the rest by consulting both the European States which have signed the Convention and those European States which have not signed it (as NATO member) in order to explore the possibilities for a joint European commitment towards a nuclear-free world,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u441	Good luck, Minister! Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u442	Thank you. You have two minutes left. I give the floor to Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his refreshing and sober answers. That tastes like more. I look forward to the next debates with this Minister. He said to make the desirable feasible. That's how I put it in my own words. He also said: that may be better with ideals than with principles. Well, I think principles and ideals are doing just fine, too. So that's gonna have to be all right. It has to go in the right direction with small steps. That also led us to step into this cabinet. This sober approach was also reflected in the response to the Middle East. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to keep pressure on the Palestinian Authority within Europe as well as towards that perverse stimulus. He has also given good answers as far as we are concerned about the other texts on the Middle East. Religious freedom is an important spearhead for us, but also for this new cabinet. We have the next motion on this, which I would like to read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas religious freedom as part of the Human Rights Fund has received particular attention in recent years;]] [[Whereas, within human rights policy, the government pays special attention to vulnerable groups, such as Christians, thereby remaining a spearhead of foreign policy;]] [[calls on the government to step up its commitment to religious freedom under the Human Rights Fund during this period of office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Van Helvert and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u444	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank everyone for their efforts, including at this late hour. I look forward to the next debate with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u445	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Kuzu van Denk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u446	Thank you, Mr President. This minister had indicated that we would see a completely different side of him. That's right. We have seen a different Mr Zijlstra today than the chairman of the VVD. That doesn't change the fact that we won't always agree. You can show another side today at this late hour. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the army in Myanmar is guilty of large-scale human rights violations;]] [[noting that the government indicates that the army in Myanmar has significant economic interests;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure in advance and ex post, in facilitating all forms of economic activities in Myanmar, that revenues from these activities are not in any way in the benefit of the Myanmari army,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u447	Mr. Chairman. The second point is freedom of faith. As far as DENK is concerned, religious freedom applies not only to Christians but to everyone in the world, whether they are Muslims, Buddhists or Jews. We don't care. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Government, in foreign policy, is committed to promoting the international legal order, including freedom of faith;]] [[Considering that the Uighurs in China have been suffering for years from restrictions on their freedom of religion, for example in the form of surrender of religious objects or restrictions on children's names;]] [[calls on the Government to continue addressing the human rights situation of the Uighurs in international and bilateral contacts with China and to stress the importance of concrete improvements in the human rights situation of the Uighurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u448	Mr President, if I exceed my speaking time, I will compensate for that in another budget. I'd like to have said that in advance. The third motion concerns the discussion we had with the Minister on banning symbols of terrorism. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only one flag is currently prohibited under the Dutch law, namely the Nazi flag;]] [[noting that the German Minister for the Interior sent a letter to the German Länder and the German security services prohibiting the display of flags by terrorist organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal prohibiting the flags of terrorist organisations appearing on the terrorist lists of the Netherlands, the European Union and the United Nations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u449	My final motion is brief. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to recognise the Palestinian State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-V-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u450	The Minister will answer the Chamber in his second term, giving an appreciation of the motions. It may be that he wishes to make another comment on the amendment tabled, but I think that there has already been a sufficient exchange in the debate and that he has appreciated it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u451	Mr. Chairman. I did. Let me repeat it for the sake of completeness. I reject the amendment because it concerns a specific amount. I do see an encouragement in looking for extra money for the Human Rights Fund. That's what others have indicated. Five motions have been tabled to identify certain areas within the Human Rights Fund. I'm going to come up with something specific, but I can tell you that they're all going to be judged by the Chamber. That also means that I'm looking for extra money. I've been looking at the cover, but I'm not gonna use that specific amount for that one post. Raising will be necessary, I can tell. This is going to require choices and I am going to inform the Chamber as soon as possible. That was the amendment. Mr De Roon's motion for a resolution 12 about Jerusalem: dissuade. If you don't mind, I'm just going a little fast, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 13 on Islam as the cause of terrorism: dissuade. The motion in part No. 14 to stop pre-accession fees for only the Dutch part: dissuade. The motion in part No. 15 on the Armenian genocide: dissuade. In my view, the government has been given a very clear guidance from the coalition agreement. Mr Ten Broeke rightly calls attention to fake news. That's good on the agenda. We must take this very seriously. We do not allow sanctions against Venezuela to go up in line with those of the United States. They're moving on. But I am very pleased that at the first meeting where I was, we were able to arrange for the sanctions to be applied now. We will continue to bet on getting a behavior change. The motion in part No. 16 on the increase of the NFRP: Court of Justice, but with the remark that there is no budget in the coalition agreement. So here too, I'm going to see where there's room in the budget, but the 40 million that was ever mentioned... Fortunately, in the motion, it is about minimising the difference. I'm gonna try. But here's what I'm gonna give you. Judge Room, then. The motion in part No. 17 by Mr Van Ojik on land rights: Judgment Chamber, with what I have already indicated. The motion in part No. 18 on Nord Stream II, I advise. Maybe it's even more convenient to hold the motion until the cabinet response arrives. I understand that Mr Van Ojik really wants a ruling now, in anticipation of the cabinet response. If he wants that verdict, I'll advise against the motion. My suggestion would be to hold on. The motion in part No. 19 on humanitarian law of war, given the discussion about America and democracy. The motion in part No. 20 by Mr Van Helvert on combating ISIS: Court of Justice opinion. The motion in part No. 21 by Mrs Karabulut on independent investigations into the war on terror: dissuade. The motion in part No. 22 on Yemen as a priority, I advise against it because the motion implicitly calls for an arms embargo. We want to control this instrument of every test. But I get the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u452	Mrs Karabulut would like to clarify her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u453	The Minister doesn't want to condemn the events. The only thing this motion requires is to make Yemen a priority. And yes, in the end you will have to come to the end of the military action. Isn't this what the Minister can see as support for his policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u454	We don't know that option anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u455	We don't remember him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u456	What I can give you is this. The fact that Yemen will have to be a major concern of the government in the coming years is not a discussion. My predecessor put so much time into that for a reason. We're just gonna find each other on that. The text here on arms is an implicit call for an arms embargo. I don't want to. If you were to take out any suggestion around that, I think we could ultimately pass judgment on Chamber. But that can't be the way the motion looks right now. If you are still looking for an improvement in the text, I have just outlined where the opening is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u457	The invitation's over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u458	In the motion in part No. 23 on Moroccan demonstrators are requested to be released. That is interference in the course of justice in Morocco. So I can't help but dissuade it. We will certainly pay attention to it when following the lawsuits, as I have indicated. Then the motion to part No. 24 on Amnesty International. That's under the judge. I'll tell you what. So it's always a little babysitting. You're asking in the motion to make a call. Fine. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 25 is about the modernisation of nuclear weapons. I have already indicated this in the debate. Therefore: dissuade. Mr. Sjoerdsma. I believe that the difference between the group chairman Zijlstra and Minister Zijlstra is not so great either. But I think that the fact that you compare me with the predecessors and predecessors is also a compliment. I accept that. The UN Security Council: a platform to talk about. I certainly have that consideration. It is indeed a platform that can be used for this purpose. They are also, quite frankly, the most difficult countries to talk to. But I've heard your consideration. Then the motion to part No. 26 on journalists in distress: Court opinion in the light of previous comments on the five. Mrs Ploumen, I hope you forgive me for not having immediately congratulated you on your maiden speech. I still do. It was a pleasure to be able to debate with you in this way. For me, it is deeply disappointing that you are deeply disappointed by the thematic sanction regime, because I do not recommend the motion in part No. 27 on the subject. What I have indicated is that we both underline that objective. To be honest, I find the instrument that is now at the centre of the debate to be subordinate. It's about the purpose. We agree on the goal. I don't think the cure is appropriate. And actually, since we're focusing on that right now, I'd advise against that motion. That is without prejudice to the words I have said, because you are quite right about the purpose. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 28 on nuclear weapons and bridge functions. I have already indicated very strongly that I continue to focus on nuclear weapons. But with the bridge function you must be careful, because that is the bridge function to the treaty. That treaty is not going to change, but we will continue to work to move forward. I have already said that this is actually the playing field for the countries that have nuclear weapons, the alliances that have nuclear weapons. That's where it has to take place. The countries I need to find a bridge with are those that do not have nuclear weapons. That's easy to sign. The difficulty lies with the first group. I would like to take steps to this end, and of course you can discuss this with me all the time. That's why I don't recommend that motion. The motion in part No. 29 on freedom of religion: judgment Chamber. I told you that before. Then Mr Kuzu with the Myanmar motion on item No. 30. I would advise against this motion, because there are no sanctions, and even with sanctions, it is actually impossible to ensure that there is not a penny there. But without a sanction regime, which is not there, that is completely impossible. The Netherlands argues for this. That's right, and it's gonna stay that way. Let that be clear, too. I advise against this motion for the reasons I just indicated. This is without prejudice to the fact that the Netherlands does advocate the introduction of sanctions against Myanmar. We just didn't get it done. Did I say something else? No, I meant Myanmar. If I said another country, I hope I didn't just cause a diplomatic riot, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u459	That's always fun at night. Someone's awake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u460	Then the motion to part No. 31 on the freedom of religion of Uighurs: Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 32 on the flags of terrorist organizations: I get it, I dissuade him. This is where the dividing line lies between the cabinet position and Mr Kuzu's position on freedom of expression. But for the love of God, I have every understanding. Then the motion to part No. 33 on the Palestinian State. It won't be surprising: I'm telling you that too. Mr. Chairman. Then I wait in suspense for the votes. I thank the Chamber for its contributions and the pleasant debate. And I thank you and all the people here for the length of time, the presence and facilitation of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-8.u461	Thank you. I too would like to thank everyone for their commitment, their interest and, indeed, their support.
