ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	The first speaker I give the floor is Mr Wassenberg. He will speak on behalf of the Party for Animals. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are again talking to the Minister about gas extraction by the NAM, this time under the Wadden Sea; a unique nature reserve and world heritage, for which we have an international obligation of protection. But the Wadden Sea is threatened by gas extraction and the sea level rise. That's the conclusion from a recent scientific report from the Wadden Society. British newspaper The Guardian recently called the extraction of gas under the Wadden Sea "gas grab," a grab, and the NAM participates in it with all its consequences. Nothing to worry about, says the NAM, things are under control: "hand on the crane" principle. But the State's surveillance of the mines doesn't feel the same way. In a letter dated 12 May, the SodM writes that the reports that NAM had drawn up on the effects of gas extraction on the Wadden Sea can go into the trash because they do not make sufficiently clear how the soil is falling in the longer term, but knowledge about these long-term effects is a prerequisite for drilling for gas. If after all this time the NAM is now drilling for four years and researching the conditions is not being fulfilled, we can't just say: NAM, go on with what you're doing; those long-term effects will come in the long term? If the conditions for extraction are not met, the extraction must stop. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. We are in the process of making the same mistakes in the drillings under the Wadden Sea as in the extraction of gas in Groningen, as the NAM proved to have insufficient regard for the long-term effects of gas extraction. On 8 April there was an interview with the NAM director in the Volkskrant. In response to the newspaper's question whether the NAM had underestimated the problem in Groningen, the NAM director said: "Underestimate implies a presentation of the future. But it happened to us, too. There was no plan." Also for the Wadden Sea, according to the SodM, the NAM has no representation of the future and there is no plan for the Wadden Sea either. Unfortunately, gas extraction is not the only threat to the Wadden Sea. Two weeks ago, physical oceanographer Sybren Drijfhout said a beautiful name in this case, also working for the KNMI, his lecture as professor of Dynamics of the Climate at Utrecht University. His message was: due to changes in currents, sea levels on the Dutch coast will rise more rapidly over the next twenty years. That is a very dangerous development. A sea level rise can have disastrous consequences for the Wadden Sea, because then many more areas do not dry out during ebb. The consequences are much more serious if the sea floor falls simultaneously as a result of gas extraction. Then the consequences are incalculable. We're running out of time. The Wadden Sea is in danger of drowning. We have to intervene before it's too late. The Wadden Sea is a beautiful, unique piece of Dutch nature that should not be destroyed by short-term economic interests. We need to leave the gas under the Wadden Sea where it is. The Animal Party wants plans for new extractions, such as those at Ternard, to be immediately shut down and current extractions to be reduced as quickly as possible. I would like to receive a response from the Minister, because I am considering a motion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. The other day I was allowed to ride on a flat bottom to Oerol. You'll see how beautiful this Wadden Sea, our world heritage, is. Seals lay in the sun as in your most beautiful holiday memory. We all have a duty, but we also have a desire to preserve that area for now and for later. Mr Wassenberg mentioned a whole set of good reasons and concerns that I will not repeat. The area is important for the inhabitants, the people who earn their living there in recreation and catering, but also for our children's children. The threats are great. The soil is falling due to the extraction of gas, but also through salt extraction, and the sea level is rising due to climate change. I have told the Minister many times, but shouldn't you just keep the gas underground in that place, because we know that we can't bring some 40 to 50% of all known reserves of oil and gas above ground, can we? Then start by letting it sit in those places where you're at risk of irreversible effects. When it's gone, it's gone. It's not coming back. As Mr Wassenberg said, the long-term effects are simply not being taken into account. I have a specific question. We have looked at the delta scenarios for sea level rise, and they have a different set of assumptions than the scenarios used by the SodM for sea level rise. You can guess three times who thinks the rise is the fastest. If we need to strengthen our dikes, we do think that sea levels may rise at a faster rate, but for gas extraction we adjust those scenarios every five years and seem to be not so bad. So one of my appeals to the Minister is to use one starting point for the Netherlands for the scenarios we use: what can, what should and how do we keep it safe? I also asked the Minister earlier about salt extraction under the Wadden Sea. In addition, hundreds of litres of diesel are pumped into the Wadden Sea. He'd see if there's a much safer way for me, if you insist on salt extraction, to cover it up nicely. I come to my last question. Through action by residents and MPs we have prevented drilling at Schiermonnikoog and Terschelling. What about authorisation for other areas? Again, such reports reached me that there are plans for new gas drilling just above Ameland. To sum up, let's keep the Wadden Sea clean and beautiful for everyone, for now and for the future, and let's leave the gas where it is. Keep it under the ground!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. Coincidentally, it was my very first work visit to the Wadden Sea. It was just not so beautiful and sunny, but ice cold and very windy. Yet I saw very clearly that the Wadden Sea is a unique nature reserve. It is a breeding ground for birds, a nursery for seals and it is full of fish and shellfish. That is why it is on the UNESCO list of world nature areas for a reason. The Wadden Sea is so special, because it is shallow and regularly gets dry. If the Wadden Sea were to get much deeper, it would be a disaster for the fragile ecosystem. According to a report commissioned by the Wadden Society, the Wadden Sea could eventually drown. The Wadden Sea is at risk of standing permanently under water due to rising sea levels, under-sand supplements and bottom descent. The Minister considers that the assumptions of the study on the increase in water, the growth of sand and the impact of mining are not in line with current insights. To know if the Wadden Sea is actually at risk of drowning, it is important that we have certainty about these assumptions. What causes the difference between the data on which the Minister bases himself and the data used in the Wadden Society report? Is the Minister's expectations at the top and thus the room for use for salt and gas extraction at the top, at the bottom or in the middle of the bandwidth of uncertainties? Is the Minister prepared to ask an independent external agency to give a second opinion on the Wadden Association report? The NAM has been failing for almost two years to carry out research into the integral effects of future soil decline in the long term. The technical implementation was insufficient and the data used did not satisfy the requirements. The results are still uncertain. This research was a prerequisite for drilling for gas in the Wadden Sea. The NAM now has until October this year to carry out the research properly. What is the consequence for the NAM if the investigation again does not satisfy? Without this research, do we have sufficient insight into the long-term consequences of soil decline? What kind of investigation does the Minister use for that? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether the recommendations of the Audit Committee on the use of the multiple measurement methods for the dynamic soil movements of the mudflat floor have been followed by the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. It's not getting anywhere. "Proefboring at head office NAM" headlined the Nieuwsblad van het Noord on 7 April 2000. The SP built a large drilling tower on the lawn one day earlier for the headquarters of gaswinner NAM, owned by Shell and Exxon. On that tower was the text "If drilling doesn't hurt." In addition, there was a sign with "Bodemslope." Enter at your own risk." The action was a protest against gas extraction under the Wadden and in the Biesbosch. The slogan was a reaction to the theorem of the NAM that drilling for gas would be possible, because the soil would not go down anyway. Seventeen years later, there are still many protests against gas extraction under the mudflats. There are protests against new extraction at the village of Ternaard and last year there were strong and successful protests against gas extraction at Terschelling and Schiermonnikoog. Moreover, the Wadden Society protests against the gas extraction that is taking place. She's worried about......................................................................................................................................................... Seventeen years after the protest of the SP, many millions of gas have been extracted under the Wadden, but there is still a lot of uncertainty about the impact of gas extraction and the extent to which this unique UNESCO world heritage is at risk. That's very serious. On 12 May 2017, the Inspector-General of Mines wrote a letter entitled: NAM study on soil decline not to the satisfaction of the IGM. I quote from the letter: "Because the study is not yet to the satisfaction of the IGM, the NAM currently does not comply with Article 5 of the assent decision Ameland, Article 3 of the consent decision Anjum and Article 14 of the consent decision Moddergat, Lauwersoog and Vierhuizen (MLV). The NAM is therefore in violation here." The NAM is in violation. The Inspector-General of Mines speaks of "significant shortcomings." It's a good thing they're threatening a penalty now, but it's late. Can it be done before 31 October 2017 or is it not legally possible? Again, important flaws. The SP is very concerned about this. Figures that have now been shown show that the decline in soil have already been referred to very well by previous speakers, which is considerably more than expected. In addition, we simply know far too little because of the "important imperfections." Shouldn't we reduce or stop the gas extraction under the Wadden? Shouldn't we block all the new mining? Shouldn't action be taken much earlier if the NAM doesn't meet the requirements? Is there no need for more clarity and therefore more independent research? Besides, I'm gonna leave it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I call Mr Graus. He shall speak on behalf of the Party of Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr President, it is Party before Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	I was just thinking about it. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	Party of Labour and Party of Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	Go ahead, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you, Madam President. I know that the Minister, apart from his Moto Guzzi and his loving wife, also has a weakness for the Wadden Sea. That's because I've had to ask him some questions about residents of the Wadden Sea. He also appeared as a connoisseur of important residents of the Wadden Sea. This was already apparent from the questions about humpback Johanna, who stranded on the Razende Bol. He even turns out to be a true marine mammal specialist from time to time. But it's also about the Wadden Sea being world heritage. I personally am a great fan of the Wadden. Although I live in one of the most beautiful provinces of the Netherlands, I stay there at least once a month. Preferably on Texel, I have to be honest. But I certainly spend a lot of time in the Wadden Sea. Because I'm still waiting for the acid rain... I still don't have an itch on my head... and on the polar bears that would all go to waste, I still want to ask what's right. Because one scientist says sister and the other scientist says so. That's what I've been dealing with all this time I've been a Member of Parliament. I don't know who to listen to anymore. The Minister may have a solution. The NAM says it's under control. Is this correct, Minister? We have little or no confidence in the NAM, especially after all that has happened with regard to the mining-related earthquake file in Groningen. As soon as there is a danger to humans and animals, we want action to be taken. We also wanted the gas crane to be turned off in Groningen. Is that necessary here, too? Again, I'm not an expert on the subject. I'm saying that honestly. Some people say, "Don't let it make you crazy; it doesn't make any sense" and others warn that everything is going to go down. What's the Minister's response? Because he can rely on the knowledge of hundreds of officials, while I have to do it with one and a half employees. We can never fight that. We also want an independent investigation to be carried out. I think Mrs Beckerman just said the same thing. If she wishes to table a motion on this, if that proves necessary, if the Minister does not offer the investigation, I would be happy to support it. Before I can say anything useful about that, I must await the Minister's reply. I am not here on my own behalf, by the way, because I am not a spokesperson on this dossier. I'm replacing Barry Madlener, who unfortunately is ill for a long time. I can't believe you know that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	It is good of you to say that, Mr Graus. We wish Mr Madlener well. I see an interruption by Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks, so you may return to the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	The PVV and we have a great difference of understanding about climate change, but we share the warm heart for nature values and the Wadden Sea. So I wonder what the PVV thinks of salt extraction under the Wadden Sea. In the layer that covers that whole salty water, that salty brin, are hundreds of gallons of diesel oil. Could we perhaps, together, prevent it from being pumped into the Wadden Sea? Don't you have to say, just leave that salt there; there were places in the world where we could get salt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	Those are very difficult questions, because I am not the spokesperson on this file. I'm only here as a replacement. But Mrs Van Tongeren knows from the time that I was on the energy file, between 2006 and 2010, that we always stopped when there was a danger to humans and animals, because animals are no less important to us than humans. That's why I asked that question. If Mrs Van Tongeren has listened carefully, she has heard that I have said: quite a lot of scientists have approached us, Barry and our group, and I am right to do so. But what are you supposed to believe? After all, some things that scientists have predicted have not happened and other things that were not even predicted have happened again. It is therefore very difficult for us to take a well-considered decision on this now. I therefore await the Minister's reply first, because I would like to discuss this dossier with my group and the spokesman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u15	Perhaps Mr Wassenberg could give you some additional information in his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u16	Above all, I have a question for Mr Graus. Mr Graus and I share the same beautiful province, but we also share a fascination for the Wadden. The PVV also knows that the extraction of gas in Groningen has led to a bottom drop and that gas extraction under the Wadden also leads to a bottom fall? How big is the decline in soil still to be investigated, but does he agree with me that if all this is not known when it is in the conditions, the conditions are not met and the permit is not actually correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u17	Of course I share that. I can't get past these facts. Let the following be very clear. Perhaps the descent in the bottom is instantly alarming, but Mr Wassenberg also knows that until now nothing has been known that the animals of the Wadden Sea have suffered from it. At least that is not known to me and I suppose not to the Animal Party. But if there is a danger to marine mammals, then we would like to see action taken. Mr Wassenberg knows our position on Groningen and Groninger gas, of which I am the spokesman. We want it all to be reversed because there is a danger to people. Then it's about people's lives. I think that the whole Chamber should gather from left to right to act against it if there is a danger to humans and animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr Graus must also know that there is a danger to animals, because if the soil sinks and sea level rises, then the Wadden Sea will change anyway. Then areas that are now drying out won't be dry anymore. This means great differences in animal life and in bird feeding areas. That means a very substantial change. So if the importance of the animals is also important for the PVV, then she should also look at the rise in sea level and the fall in the bottom, because there really is a lot changing in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr Wassenberg is a biologist. I can't match that. I'm not a biologist, he is. Of course, there are always changes. Mr Wassenberg also knows the evolution of the earth; let us not fool each other. Only now is the question of how fast it is going to be and what the consequences will be in the short term. But the evolution of the earth is not going to stop him, me and all of us. Those changes are going to happen over the next thousands of years, but we are now acting for decades to come. I would like an answer from the Minister on this. We may be able to work together if there is a danger in the short term and we can oppose it if we have any influence on it at all. If human action affects that, then I think we should all get together. I'll share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thank you very much, Mr Graus. The next speaker will take the floor. That's Mrs. Aukje de Vries. She shall speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr. Chairman. The Wadden Islands, the Wadden Sea and the Wadden coast together form a special and unique, but also a very dynamic nature reserve. The Wadden Sea falls partly dry at low tide and is therefore an important area for migratory birds. Tourists and tourists enjoy the Wadden, the seals, the beautiful beaches and the wadwalking. But there are also people living in the Wadden region who earn their living there. The VVD therefore wants a balance between nature and economy. On the one hand, this unique area must be protected. On the other hand, people in the area must also be able to recreate and live and earn their living in fishing, tourism and ports. We are curious to see how the Minister views this. The area must, of course, be handled with care. It is therefore right that there is a strict protection regime, with Natura 2000, the structural vision of the Wadden Sea, the Nature Protection Act and the Birds and Habitats Directive. With the new Mining Act, there has been a stricter regime for mineral extraction in this kind of vulnerable natural areas. It is known that the Wadden Society is against gas and salt extraction in the area. The report we are debating has been prepared on behalf of the Wadden Society by a climate journalist who is also involved in the Fossil-free action group. Other parties look at it differently. In the magazine De Ingenieur, stopping the extraction of salt and gas is called a dummy solution for preventing the drowning of the Wadden Sea, because it has hardly any influence. In a comprehensive response, the cabinet indicated that the current policy line is sufficient and that it works. The VVD supports that line. The activities in the area must, of course, be carried out with care. It must be safe for man and nature and any new insights must always be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u22	I hear Mrs De Vries saying that it has little influence, but does the VVD agree with me that gas and salt extraction in any case are not conducive to nature and to preserving the world heritage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u23	I have said that other parties indicate that it has no influence. Margins have been indicated. I believe that the Minister has made this clear in his letter. There are also a number of safeguards, and I shall come back to this in a moment, on the basis of which new insights will be looked at as they arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u24	I asked if it would make it better. Is it gonna make the world's heritage better if you win salt and gas? My colleague from the VVD said: it doesn't get much worse. But if you have such a beautiful, unique area where so many people have to earn their living, as Mrs De Vries said, would you rather not want things that make it even a little bit worse? It's not gonna get any better, is it? That was my question. Do we agree that gas and salt extraction will not improve?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mrs Van Tongeren keeps putting words in my mouth. I have indicated what else is being said. I said a report was prepared on behalf of the Wadden Society. I also referred to the policy line. As far as we are concerned, it must be done responsibly. You have to make sure it's safe for man and nature. There are a number of safeguards for that. I also have a number of questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u26	Maybe we should wait and see. Or would you like to continue with this, Mr Wassenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u27	I do have a question about the information on which we base ourselves. No one has any doubt that gas extraction leads to soil decline. The NAM doesn't doubt that either. The question is how big the effects are. No one has any doubt that sea levels are rising. I was just talking about the physical geographer and professor of Dynamics of the Climate, who said that sea level in the Netherlands will rise very rapidly in the next twenty years, especially due to currents. These two things together, the rise in sea level and the fall in soil, are not denied by experts. Surely they must lead to changes in the Wadden region? Doesn't the VVD realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u28	It's nice that the Party for the Animals indicates these two things, but I think you should also look at the sedimentation and disposal of sand. You have to look at all three things and you have to include them in the "hand on the crane" principle and the predictions about what it's going to do as a total. We are dealing with three issues, but Mr Wassenberg forgets to mention the sale of sand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u29	The sedimentation does not contribute to the Wadden Sea keeping the Wadden Sea. It can only contribute further to the whole sanding. That doesn't matter here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u30	It's either one of two: it's sandy or it's drowning. I am just a little lost when the Party for the Animals is again talking about blandness, while I think the report of the Wadden Society is about drowning. As I pointed out, we always have to take into account any new insights, for example when it comes to monitoring the sea level rise in depth, the deposit of sedimentation, for example of sand, and the fall in soil. Can the Minister explain exactly how this is handled? How does this process work, so that new insights can be rapidly incorporated into policy-making? As far as the VVD is concerned, it is good that the finger is constantly held on the wrist and there are enough checks-and-balances to adjust if necessary. There is an annual advice from the Audit Board, a five-year update of the sea level rise scenario and the "hand on the crane" principle. The course of the investigation of the NAM about the extraction shows that the system also works. There's a penalty over the market. We are curious what the follow-up steps will be if the penalty payment is imposed because the NAM has not met the required requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u31	There are still a few interruptions, at least from Mrs Van Tongeren. I do not know whether Mrs Mulder stood up for an interruption or because she is almost speaking, but Mrs Van Tonger has at least the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u32	I'm trying to find common ground. I assume that both the VVD and GroenLinks would like us to use a set of very well validated figures in the Netherlands, which includes the most current insights of scientists. Does Mrs De Vries agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u33	You have to look at all the insights and weigh which are the most logical. I have therefore indicated that I would like to know from the Minister how these insights can be quickly translated into policy-making. However, I think it is a little quick to say, on the basis of one report, that things have to be different now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u34	Does Mrs De Vries find it odd with me that the Delta Commissioner uses a completely different set of assumptions to look at the rise in sea level in the Netherlands than is used in the KNMI scenarios, which the supervisor, the SodM, is looking at for gas extraction? It's one country and the sea level can only be at one height.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u35	I'm not an expert on the Delta programme. I think it is important to await the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. We have many special and very beautiful areas in the Netherlands. The Wadden Sea is one of them. I'll be happy when I get on the boat to one of the islands and I sail over that beautiful Wadden Sea. We must, of course, deal with this very carefully. If we look at the mining activities in the area, we have actually developed a special approach to this, namely the 'hand on the crane' principle. With this you constantly watch how the sedimentation, the bottom drop through mining and the sea level rise are related. According to the Minister, the literature study carried out on behalf of the Wadden Society does not prejudice this point of departure. The CDA follows the minister in this. When reading the Wadden Society report, our group was unclear as to why the sediment supply that is now available, and which is being measured, would suddenly fall dramatically. Can the Minister confirm once again that the sediment supply is high at the moment? As far as the rise in sea level is concerned, of course, there are all kinds of models. The CDA wonders whether mining activities in the Wadden Sea take into account the same expectations as those used in the Delta programme. GroenLinks has quite rightly made comments on this, in our group's view and in my view at least. We would very much like an answer to that. Finally, the CDA finds it worrying that after four years the NAM does not yet comply with the requirement set out in the extraction plan for the locations Muddergat, Lauwersoog and Vierhuizen. If the NAM doesn't want to meet this, she shouldn't be winning gas. This behaviour of the NAM, especially with all the problems in Groningen, is unacceptable. The CDA is counting on the SodM to continue to maintain it correctly and firmly and that the NAM will stop once and for all to walk away from it. Can the Minister outline what will happen if the long-term residency study is not or is not properly presented by the NAM? In that case, what are the follow-up steps of the SodM, State surveillance of the Mines, and the Minister? This is what we're worried about anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u37	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has indicated that he would like to pause for five minutes in order to prepare the answers properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr. Chairman. I very much share the views of the spokesmen that the Wadden Sea is a unique area. It is the world's largest contiguous area of sandy and muddy plains that dry out during a period of low tide. This means that it has not been designated by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site for no reason. Also the people in the Netherlands who have participated in an assessment of all nature reserves, and have indicated what they think is the most beautiful nature reserve, have identified the Wadden area as the most beautiful area of the Netherlands. Of course, economic activities are also taking place in this area. Mrs Van Tongeren already referred to that. These are tourist activities, activities which enjoy the beauty of this area, but there are also economic activities in the field of gas extraction and salt extraction. People deserve their living with the opportunities that exist in that area. The way the government deals with the Wadden Sea is laid down in laws and visions. It is quite right that we have done so, because such a beautiful area must be protected with consistent policies. We have recorded this in the Mining Act, in the Nature Protection Act and in the structural vision for the Wadden Sea. We have described precisely what should and should not be done in that area, how the consequences should be assessed and how they should be taken into account. We have agreed that activities in that area should only take place if those activities do not lead to a deterioration of the area. It is very important that we have done so, and we must stick to it. The Wadden Sea itself was protected. We discussed this recently when we discussed the amendment of the Mining Act. We have said that the protection of the Wadden Sea should not only be limited to the Wadden Sea itself. The Wadden Islands should also be included, as should the coastal zone north of the Wadden Islands. We should not allow new mining activities to take place throughout that area of the coastal zone north of the islands, the islands themselves and the Wadden Sea. It's been decided. The law has been adapted for this purpose, but at the same time it has been said that you can do activities from outside those areas, drilling obliquely towards the Wadden Sea. There are, of course, a number of conditions in this respect, which I am going to go into in more detail. One condition that applies if you were to drill north of the coastal zone, for example to gas, is that this should then be done using an existing platform at Ameland or in such a way that the visibility of such an activity is limited. I think those are important conditions. In concrete terms, there are now two activities in this area. Firstly, there is the extraction that the NAM aims at at Ternaard. Other extractions are under way, but there is a new extraction at Ternaard. Secondly, there is a extraction by Frisia, where salt is also extracted from Harlingen below the area. For gas extraction in the Wadden Sea we have established the principle of hand on the crane. This means that we must ensure that the extraction of gas takes place in such a way that the natural values of the Wadden Sea and its surrounding area are not affected as a result of extraction. I explained this 'hand on the crane' principle in detail in a letter I sent to the Chamber last May. The starting point is that sedimentation, i.e. the growth of the height of the sea floor due to sand sediment flowing from the North Sea between the islands through the Wadden Sea, can keep track of the bottom drop and the rise in sea level. As a result of that sedimentation, you have a certain operating space, as we call it. It must be such that it allows you to keep up with the decline in soil caused by the extraction of salt and gas and the rise in sea level. As long as the bottom descent rate due to gas extraction is lower than the available operating space I just mentioned, there is no deterioration of the natural characteristics of the Wadden Sea and therefore no damage to nature. We need to be able to monitor and assess that critically. We do this by establishing, every five years for the next five years, what the sea level rise scenario is that we can expect and thus stay within the rules. At the same time, for the next five years, we are setting a sort of target scenario, in which we anticipate what is to be expected and also take into account a possible increase in sea level. This is updated once every five years. This is an important opportunity for us to follow developments. But that's not all we have. Reporting shall also be carried out on an annual basis. Exactly how information should be made available under a measurement and control protocol, a measurement plan and a monitoring programme. It must be supplied by the parties involved in mining in that area. That information is not being assessed by me. We have a separate committee for that. This Audit Board gets that information. Next, it is assessed whether the space that is there is indeed such that no damage is done to nature, and whether it remains within that space. We have been applying the "hand to the crane" principle for years. We've been doing that since 2007, so we've been doing it for ten years. So far, it has always been shown that there is no damage to nature and that there is no reason to apply the "hand to the crane" principle. This means that there is no reason to stop the extraction of natural gas in this case or to take other measures in this direction. It can also be salt, at the extraction from Harlingen by Frisia. I have already said that we set that scenario every five years. Some spokesmen also say that we should have independent research. I think that the spokesmen must realise that we are, of course, independent with each other. We are the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I am the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Chamber of Commerce are independent. We do our work in such a way that we are not dependent on the NAM, Frisia or the Wadden Society. No, we're independent in that. This also applies to State supervision of the Mines, to the Audit Committee, to TNO, the scientific institute that we employ, and to others who supply the material to TNO. TNO is used to ensure that the information we need to make decisions is of sufficient quality each time. For this purpose, TNO uses data from KNMI and Deltares. These are all objective data that become available and public. Anyone can take note of that. Then there are reports and we take decisions. I think that we are doing this very carefully and that it is absolutely necessary to do so carefully, because of what I started with, namely that we are dealing with a unique area. We must maintain that area and ensure that the activities taking place there do not go at the expense of the natural values in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u39	Many scientists who contradict that say that the Ministry is not entirely independent, because the State naturally receives revenues from gas extraction. In this sense, the government is not entirely independent. What is the Minister's response to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr Graus, the Party for Freedom and the House of Representatives, would not be independent either, because the House of Representatives, as co-legislator, together with the government, sets the annual budget. It includes income and expenditure. There are many sources of income, but that does not mean that the Lower House, the government, our state supervision, our scientific organisation TNO, the KNMI, Deltares or the Audit Committee would not be independent. These are all bodies that are very well aware of their responsibilities and that are also very well able to bear that responsibility in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u41	We don't rule. We are representatives of the people and I am also an animal representative. Of course, I had nothing to do with that. If I were Secretary of State or Minister, I might also have to keep an eye on it in terms of: wait a minute, we need the gas extraction to get certain budgets, including from my ministry. At a time like this, I wouldn't be as independent as I am right now. I'm completely independent now and so is the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u42	The House of Representatives has budget rights. The Second Chamber shall adopt the budget by law. This means that there are revenue in all kinds of ways, but that does not mean that the House of Representatives would not be independent. Every debate proves that the Chamber is. I'm independent, too. The government is also independent. All the agencies I've just mentioned are, too. It is not that we need to disqualify ourselves in this respect. That would be very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u43	However, I would like to add a few words to the questions put by Mr Graus. In the first report on the Groningen gas extraction, the Research Council for Security came to a different conclusion. It said that there was too much entanglement between all the players in the gas building. A number of players that the minister just mentioned, such as the SodM, the KNMI and the Ministry, were mentioned there in particular. So perhaps the Minister has taken measures that have reduced it now, but in the recent past it certainly has. TNO calls itself "the preferred research partner of Shell" on its own website. That is all right and you can validate research, but that indicates that Mr Graus may have had something of a point. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u44	You can be a preferred research partner of Shell and still be independent. Half of TNO is financed by public funds. Half of TNO is also financed from the market for all kinds of projects. TNO is very capable of maintaining independence. This also applies to the ECN, the Planning Office for the Environment, Deltares and the SodM itself; it applies to all these organisations. It would be very foolish for us to assume that all these parties would not be independent. They are indeed independent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u45	The Minister didn't mention the report of the Security Research Council, but an incredible stack of e-mails leaked in 2014. This showed that between the SodM, the NAM and the KNMI there was supposedly a negotiation oversight. The Minister undoubtedly remembers those e-mails, in which it was said, for example, "Can the NAM live with it if I adjust this sentence in this report a bit in that direction?" This is part of the material that the Security Research Council has also looked at. This shows, as the Research Council for Security concluded, that it was a closed stronghold, with only the profits of the companies at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u46	Those words by Mrs Van Tongeren disqualify State supervision of the Mines. I absolutely don't want to do that. I think that, when it comes to reports, the State's supervision of the mines is very wise to apply hear and hear again. If I have to make a report on GroenLinks and I write down a number of things in it, I will first give it to GroenLinks with the question to reply. I can then think about it, perhaps amend my own texts to finally adopt the final text. I can still be independent because of that. It would be very foolish to pretend that all the agencies we have in our beautiful country, which are conscientiously doing their work and are independent, are one grey mass that wants to make all kinds of things happen at the expense of nature. There is absolutely no question of that. The authorities we have in our country are doing their work conscientiously and independently and, as far as the Wadden Sea is concerned, are aimed at ensuring that this policy is followed: only allow economic activities that do not affect natural values.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u47	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Van Tongeren, you may respond briefly again, then the Minister can respond briefly again and then Mrs Beckerman is next.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u48	There was a personal reproach in the Minister's words. I did not say at any time that all these institutions would say anything. I have quoted very specific examples of a particular e-mail exchange and I have quoted the judgment of the Research Council for Security, which has clearly criticised this. I am very pleased with a great deal of work done by these institutions, and the Minister knows that, but it is not the case that in the Netherlands nothing has ever been said against the independence of these institutions. In fact, our own Research Council for Security has said that there was a lot to be done. This minister knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u49	An e-mail exchange becomes available because we have a Public Administration Act, so that all these things can be investigated. I have already said that it is very wise, if you are to supervise and you want to do things, to give the person that we are talking about the opportunity to take note of them first and comment on them. Then you can see if there is any reason to change the wording. I think it is very healthy that there is criticism of the actions of institutions, because criticism allows you to improve things and do even better next time. What I wanted to say, and that was what this discussion was about, is that if we want to know independently what things are like, we should be lucky to have the Audit Committee, State supervision of the Mines, TNO, Deltares and the KNMI available for this. I also believe that the cabinet, the Minister for Economic Affairs and the House of Representatives are independent institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u50	I don't get it anymore. Yesterday we had a debate here on the extraction of gas in Groningen. We had a brief exchange of views on independence. I'd like to quote a letter that came up yesterday. You say in that and I give a literal quote so that we cannot misunderstand each other: "However, I have made the conscious choice not to fully integrate the two programs for the reason that the NWO program is fully funded by Shell, which could potentially affect the Knowledge Programme Effects Mining of EZ and SodM in its independence." So yesterday we debated a letter in which the Minister says that this investigation is paid for by Shell and may therefore not be independent. This was used by the Minister as a defence of the criticism of the Research Council for Security why he had not come up with one research programme deep underground. Now I hear the Minister say the opposite: it doesn't really matter if Shell is doing research or if Shell is paying for research, because it is independent. I'd like some explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u51	Yesterday we discussed the situation in which there had to be an independent scientific research programme to ensure that the information we receive from the NAM could be verified by that independent research programme. At the same time, the Research Council for Security has said that there is another research programme, namely NWO, which you should actually merge with. So it's going to be one program. I said: I do not think that is right, because the NWO programme is 100% funded by Shell. I think it is good to leave aside the independent scientific programme that we are setting up. But that doesn't mean that if TNO does work for Shell, for SodM, for Qatar's government or for what, TNO's independence will be affected. TNO is financed half by the government and for the other half by the market. That includes parties like Shell. There's no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u52	Then I'm going back to Groningen. By the OVV, wider than just for Groningen, it was said: start up such a large knowledge program, because there is still too little knowledge. We have just had an exchange of views on this. Today we are debating again and, in fact, we are finding that there is still a great deal of uncertainty. Several Members of Parliament ask: can we not examine that again independently, so that we at least have that clarity? Otherwise, we will continue to have these discussions. That is not such a crazy question, even given the fact that yesterday, in the debate on Groningen, the Minister clearly admitted that this is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u53	The Minister replied to this question and then continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u54	It's not that crazy a question, but it's not that crazy an answer I give. And that answer is that we have established that every five years we have a sea level rise scenario for the next five years and we have a scenario for those five years afterwards. Then let's monitor all developments every year and let's make a report on them. We then check it against the user room that results from information we receive from TNO, Deltares and the KNMI. We're going to have that whole thing evaluated by the Audit Board. It's all as independent as it can be. If you don't think that's independent anymore, what's independent in this world? I believe that we have organised this very independently in a very careful way, with the aim of ensuring that we can establish that activities that we allow in the Wadden Sea area are not at the expense of the natural values in the area. We have linked this to the "hand on the crane" principle. If something turns out to be wrong, then we are going to intervene, then we are going to reduce the extraction of gas or salt in that area. Every year we follow that and every year it turns out that there is no need to reduce this extraction, because it all remains within the permitted operating area. You can ask all kinds of questions, but those questions can also be answered. I very much appreciate having the opportunity to do so again tonight. Then there's the report we're talking about tonight. Mr Wassenberg referred to a scientific report from the Wadden Society. I think it's an interesting report. It's from a investigative journalist, Mr. Schuttenhelmet. He has strong views. That's, I think, good for a journalist. He thinks all coal power stations should be shut down. He has now done a literature study for the Wadden Society. That's what we're talking about tonight. I am fine with talking about this, but a literature study by a journalist on behalf of the Wadden Society does not let everything we have legally regulated, what we have regulated in the structure vision, what is in the Nature Protection Act, what is in the Mining Act, lose its value. That's out of the question. What we can establish is that the operating area has been established in view of the consequences of the sedimentation, the sand that is being transported to the Wadden Sea. The effects of the rise in sea level and the decline in the bottom of the Wadden Sea as a result of mineral extraction are thus offset. As long as that is the case, we have no problem with that. In addition, we must realize that they are different quantities. Mr Schuttenhelm's literature study states that sea level will rise by two or three metres over the next 100 years. I don't know if that's true, and I'm assuming it's half a meter. Anyway, it says two or three meters. The decline resulting from mining in the area is a few millimeters per year. A few millimeters! The operating area shall also be expressed in millimetres per year. All in all, it is my conclusion that the extraction taking place in the area remains within that operating area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party would very much like to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u56	I still have to correct the minister. I haven't mentioned the Wadden Society report yet. I have just mentioned it, but it cannot be otherwise, since it is the reason for this debate. I've been talking mostly about rising sea levels. It is not the Wadden Society that warns about this but a physical oceanographer and a special professor of Dynamics of the Climate. The latter says sea level is going to rise sharply over the next 20 years. He said that in his lecture at the University of Utrecht on 22 June. Well, that's a little different. That's where the bottom descent comes in. The fact that there is a descent in the bottom is something that everyone agrees on. However, the NAM cannot tell how big the soil is, because the long-term effects have not been properly selected. That's also what the SodM criticizes. So the rise in sea level is not a matter of discussion, nor is it a point of discussion!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u57	The scenarios for the next five years and the next five years are precisely about the rise in sea levels. All available information, all measurement data and all developments shall be taken into account. Then we look at how it's working out for the Wadden Sea. At the same time, consideration is also being given to how mineral extraction in the area works. How much is the bottom of the sea? Well, there's that sedimentation on the other side. That is, the rise in the sea floor of the Wadden Sea by sand entering the area. Turns out they're shutting each other down. On the co-growth potential of the Wadden Sea as a result of sedimentation, the report of the Wadden Society, a literature study, states that it would be a factor two to three smaller than that assumed in the policy. A model study by Deltares, also such an independent institute, shows that the co-growth potential is actually a factor three greater than what we use. So we really are on the cautious side, and we continue to be within those carefully defined limits which aim to prevent the degradation of the natural values in the area. It is also very good to note that in its last ruling of 23 November 2016 on the extraction of salt, oblique under the Wadden Sea, by Frisia from Harlingen, the Council of State states that the co-growth potential in the area has been carefully set at 5 millimeters per year. The whole system that we set up ultimately leads to that conclusion about the size of the co-growth potential and about the possibilities within that co-growth potential. That system has therefore been reviewed by the Council of State and assessed by it as carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u58	I would ask the Minister to respond a little less to interruptions. I shall first give the floor to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mr President, I have to think about what it was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u61	The Minister will continue to defend that report from the Wadden Society. That report is the reason for this debate, but it is no more than that. I'll give him that, but it's something else that matters to me. We are talking about the rise in sea level and the Minister says that we do not know exactly how big it is. But we are also talking about the bottom descent and we do not know how big it is. How come we don't know that? We don't know that because the NAM didn't do a good research. The SodM blames the NAM, too. This does not fulfil the conditions of authorisation. Does the Minister agree with me that the licence is not actually valid?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u62	No, I very much disagree with Mr Wassenberg. He says we don't have any good data on the bottom descent. But we have very precise, very good data on the soil decline. It is measured very accurately, and it is then followed by all the bodies I have just mentioned. We also have very precise data on the rise in sea levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u63	Long term!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u64	We have this data both for a period of five years and for the next five years. In addition, every year we get a report stating what is happening. It's all being followed exactly, and then it's being reviewed again. The argument that we do not have these data is therefore completely wrong. Mr President, you are impatient, but I was asked whether I would also like to comment on a report...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u65	I thought I'd give Mrs. Van Tongeren the opportunity to interrupt. The Minister had just begun answering the questions put by the Chamber. I would therefore like to say that Mrs van Tongeren is interrupting, and then the Minister continues to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr President, if you give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren, I will of course keep my mouth shut, but I was still answering Mr Wassenberg's question. If you want to interrupt that answer...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mr. Wassenberg is back. So it seems that we can continue with Mrs Van Tongeren's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u68	I don't understand that, but it's probably just me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u70	The Minister said in his reply that there are clear figures on the degree of soil decline. I take Ameland as an example. There's a 1991 prognosis. Then there is a forecast of the soil decline from 1998 and it is already 100 millimeters below that. Then there is the recent bottom descent, measured in 2012. It's under there again. So you can see that on the basis of the best figures we always make a prognosis, that the next prognosis is already lower, and that what we now measure is underneath it. So now we are 200 millimeters below what we thought would happen on the basis of the best figures of the independent institutions of 1991. That's measured; it's not a prognosis. So because we're wrong every time with the projections, you should be on the side of security. You should update it, see what's going on. Where the Minister gets his assurance that things are going well, I do not understand, because our forecasts are wrong every time, and not on the side that there is less bottom drop but always on the side that there is much more bottom drop; 100 millimeters is quite a piece!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u71	I will try to answer Mr Wassenberg's question later. As far as Mrs Van Tongeren's question is concerned, we have agreed on the 'hand on the crane' principle. This means that we follow from year to year exactly what is happening. Those figures shall be established from year to year. They are also placed within the framework of a sea-level rise scenario for five years and a scenario for the five years thereafter. Then we will see whether, as a result of the activities that we allow there, we are getting above the operating area. This means that, on balance, there would be a deterioration of the natural values of the area. Ten years in a row, each year, it has proved that this is not the case and that we did not have to apply the 'hand on the crane' option. It was not necessary to win less, because there was no degradation of natural values. We should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u72	Again, my point is this. The best institutes say at some point that the soil decline is at a certain level. In 1991, fifteen years ago, it was said that the soil is going down so much. So that's over a longer period. Seven years later we say: oh, we were next to it; the bottom goes down 100 millimeters more. Then we measure, in 2012, and then we see that we are still 100 millimeters below. What I am trying to say is that our predictions from the past have thus been demonstrably incorrect. Then how can the Minister say he's sure for the future from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u73	We apply the "hand to the crane" principle over a period of ten years. We have a variety of figures at our disposal, from all possible independent bodies that we can only use in the Netherlands. Then we have that data checked by an independent audit committee. The Audit Committee has found ten times in a row that there is no deterioration of the natural values in the area and that there is therefore no need to reduce the extraction of gas or salt in the area. That is the answer I can give.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u74	Please continue with your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u75	I was replying to Mr Wassenberg; it was about the so-called LTS study. The current policy is based on research material. That research material is available. We have model studies from TNO. TNO compared and passed on all possible models, about six models, and drew conclusions from them. We have measurement and monitoring reports that become available every year. The SodM, which also follows this whole, oversees a separate study that I wanted to have done by the NAM, a study that is even more long-term. The NAM did that study. The inspector-general has said that this study is not to his satisfaction. He has indicated on six points what needs to be improved. The NAM is now working on this and has been given the time until 31 October 2017. I assume that the NAM will remove the shortcomings identified by the inspector-general, who is in charge of the State's supervision of the Mines. From that moment on, in addition to all the material we already have, we also have a longer-term study that meets the requirements of the inspector-general. That's very good. Then we have even more clarity on this important point. We were also asked what we would do if it became apparent that the study by the NAM was not prepared to the satisfaction of the State surveillance of the Mines. Then it needs to maintain state surveillance. If they think it's important that this longer-term study is there, but if they don't get it in the quality they think it's necessary, then they can start to maintain it. It's up to them to do that. They may apply a penalty payment or give a new period of time to meet the requirements. They could also decide that extraction should be reduced or stopped. I don't know any of that. State surveillance is there to ensure that something that is important and must be observed is also observed. State surveillance also has the means to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u76	For a moment, I thought that the Minister would only outline scenarios that it will be okay, but he is now quite clear: if it does not work out, the State surveillance of the Mines has enough instruments at its disposal to maintain it. I am confident that the State's supervision of the Mines will do the same. I hope that the Minister will send us a letter on this and that we will look at the other options together if this leads to new insights and if it does not work properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u77	I don't want any risks with the Wadden Sea. The rules we have established, with all the independent bodies we have involved, must all be in order. It has to be followed from year to year. What we have said must be done. If state surveillance thinks that something extra must be done, it must be done. If state supervision is not satisfied with this, then action must be taken. If the use area in the Wadden Sea is exceeded due to the rise in sea level or due to the decrease in soil, the "hand-to-hand' principle should be applied. I have no intention of cheating on the arrangements made. I intend to stick to these agreements very precisely, because I think these agreements are important for the preservation of this unique nature reserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u78	That is an adequate response for Mrs Mulder, so you can continue with the following answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u79	Let me see if there are any points that have been raised by the spokesmen. Mrs Van Tongeren spoke about different scenarios. She says that there are different figures in the Delta scenario than for the Wadden Sea. For the Wadden Sea we are working from year to year, we have a sea level rise scenario for five years and another scenario for the five years after that. For the dikes we look at the very long term. Developments are assessed from different angles. I think that the supposed differences to which Mrs Van Tongeren points can be explained. We want to be able to follow the one because of the "hand on the crane" principle from year to year. The second is that we want to see what is needed in the long term to keep the large part of the Netherlands below sea level dry even at rising sea levels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u80	A brief interruption by Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u81	Would the Minister be willing to have those two side by side? It's really weird when my neurologist sees a different course of my weight than my orthopedic, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u82	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u83	I think we need to respond to any constructive suggestion made to ensure that what we base our policies on can be even more robust. Mrs Van Tongeren notes that there are two different developments, a long-term development for the dikes and short-term development for the Wadden Sea, and asks me to look at where they overlap and whether the figures are consistent. That seems to me to be a valuable suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u84	Well, see? Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u85	I see you looking happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u86	I see it's possible. Great, keep up the good work!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u87	I'll be on the diesel cover. If you win salt, there will be a hole beneath the sea floor. If you don't cover it up, there will be further erosion of that cavity and there may be undesirable developments in the long term. On top of the water in that cavity there is a very thin layer of diesel oil to prevent the crumbling and further erosion of that cavity. That's a used technique. I have no knowledge of a better technique available at the moment. If at some point it is necessary and desirable, for example because there is a better technique, that layer of diesel oil can be removed and replaced by something else. At present this technique is used in the interests of safety and good management of the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u88	I was just as content with the Minister's commitment that I spontaneously forgot to ask when he could send that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u89	A good question!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u90	I estimate that my successor or successor should be able to do so in the third quarter of 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u92	Mrs Van Eijs wondered whether the recommendations of the Audit Committee had been followed. Yes, of course. We are always looking to ensure that the Audit Board has maximum effect. This means that we are taking note of its recommendations with particular interest and, on this basis, we are trying to further improve our policies and efforts. Mrs. Beckerman quoted the SodM letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u93	Sorry, Minister. I overlooked Mrs Van Eijs, who has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u94	I am pleased to hear that the Minister is trying to ensure that the NAM takes on board the recommendations of the Audit Committee. In this case, I specifically asked about the measurement methods, one of which is now used by the NAM and several of which have been put side by side by side by side. It is then about the GPS measurements in addition to the measurements the NAM itself used. Of these, the Audit Committee said: use the different measurement methods side by side, then we can cover the uncertainties a little more and check if deviations are, for example, a measurement error. So my question was whether the NAM also uses these different measurement methods to avoid those uncertainties as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u95	I have been able to answer in a general sense. We use this Audit Committee to properly assess the data provided by the NAM and the data from KNMI, TNO and other bodies. That's what the Audit Board is for. So he has to help me do my job well. Now Mrs Van Eijs is asking for a specific point. That information she cares about, I'll give it to the Chamber. I have listened carefully to Mrs Van Eijs' questions. I will explain this further to the Chamber. Then Mrs Beckerman spoke about the situation that might arise that extraction should stop. In particular, it referred to the extraction of gas. Yeah, it's conceivable that's gonna have to happen. But it is also conceivable, as has been the case over the past ten years, that it is not necessary, because it is possible to obtain gas there in a responsible manner without affecting the natural values in the area. The fact that things were going well in the past does not mean that things will continue to work well in the future. That is why we follow it from year to year. We do this in a very thorough way on the basis of objective data. Mr Graus asked which scientists he should listen to now. I hope he has heard from me that we have set up a system in our beautiful country, where we have very good institutions. We're gonna turn on those institutions. We take advantage of their expertise. What comes out of that, let's review it again by the Audit Board. In addition, we also have the SodM, which assesses the whole. In the end, something comes out that I can rely on in confidence. I hope that Mr Graus also feels that he can do so in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u96	What I would also like to know, because there may be motions about it, is this. State supervision of the Mines contradicts certain matters of the NAM. Therefore, the NAM would not fulfil all the conditions of the authorisation. What conditions are not met by the NAM? I need to know. I must be able to advise my group well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u97	Sure. I referred to the so-called LTS study, the long-term study. In addition to all the information available, SodM would also like to have a look at the future. I've asked the NAM to come up with that. The NAM came up with that. SodM said: I do not think it is good enough on six points; you need to improve that and you will have the time until 31 October 2017. That's what the NAM is working on right now. I hope that the outcome will be that SodM will say about the improved product that NAM delivers: that meets my requirements, that we have something to do with, that is added value. At present, all permit conditions are met, except for this one point. Only the SodM, and that is the right of the SodM, can say at some point: in order to do our job well, we need something extra. That's the study. So that study needs to be done. It's gotta be good. The NAM therefore has until 31 October to do this well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u98	What happens if they don't make it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u99	If that is not achieved, SodM will be able to act decisively. The way they do it is up to them. Ultimately, it could also lead to SodM saying that the extraction cannot be continued in a responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u100	Does that mean that the permit cannot be granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u101	The permit has been granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u102	Withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u103	Each year we look at what is happening and whether these developments are still within the limits of the licence. To be able to judge that properly, there is a lot of material available. But SodM has said: we want more material. The NAM did that, but it's not good enough yet. As soon as it's good enough, SodM can use it. If it's not good enough, SodM will draw conclusions from it. Mrs De Vries spoke about economic activities and new insights. It has also indicated that it considers it important that these economic activities take place within the framework and not at the expense of nature values. I hope that what I have said is in line with Mrs De Vries' reasoning and that she has been given the conviction that, within the framework conditions, action will be taken in a responsible manner and that, as soon as that is no longer the case, action will also be taken. Mrs Mulder spoke about the long-term study. That's what I've been working on. She spoke in particular about the figures. I have spoken about the delta figures and the Wadden Sea figures and made a commitment to the Chamber in time to ask Mrs Mulder. Madam President, that is what I wanted to say in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u104	Thank you, Minister. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. I will give Mr Wassenberg a moment to look at some motions. Oh, I see he wants to start right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u105	Motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u106	Well, I saw that Mr Wassenberg was still discussing it. I thought I'd give him some time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr. Chairman. The Minister is surprised that there are motions, but he should know us a little bit by now. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Wadden region is one of the most important nature in the Netherlands and has the status of Natura 2000 site and UNESCO World Heritage;]] [[noting that according to State supervision of the Mines, the study of the NAM on the long-term effects of gas extraction under the Wadden Sea is still qualitatively insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant a new authorisation for gas extraction in and near the Wadden Sea, as in the case of Ternaard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u108	My second and final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the extraction of gas under the Wadden Sea poses a major threat to the conservation of the Wadden Sea;]] [[noting that the State surveillance of the Mines has rejected NAM's long-term soil decline studies and that the conditions of the gas extraction authorised in 2013 are not met;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the current gas extraction in and near the Wadden Sea until all the conditions of the authorisation are met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u109	I was just asking the Minister about that. The Minister said that six points were not met, but the time had come until 31 October, and then State supervision of the Mines could be enforced. I have understood that otherwise the Minister will have to give me the impression that such a permit can be revoked if it is not complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u110	The SodM writes in the letter on the failure to comply with the permit that a number of articles have been exceeded and that the permit conditions are not currently met. The SodM can take several steps. The SodM has now said: for the umpteenth time there can be another delay. The Party for Animals doesn't think that's the right step. The Animal Party says that if all the conditions for such authorisation are not met, the licence is clearly not drawn up in accordance with the rules in force and should simply not be valid. The Minister can also intervene and say that we will stop extracting gas in that place until all the conditions are met. That is what we want and what we are asking for with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u111	So you're gonna get an as-danmotion; if my aunt had a dick, it was my uncle. Unfortunately, we cannot support such motions, especially after the Minister has replied. I would have liked to have said that in advance. It was apparently a very sympathetic motion, but action is taken if it is not met on 31 October. I simply need to be able to trust the Minister to do so and also the minister's successor or successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u112	The motion is really very simple: if the conditions are not met, the permit is actually not valid and the Minister can intervene. That's what it says. What is happening now is a very complicated game of delay again. That is not what we are waiting for. That's not what the Wadden Sea is waiting for. If the conditions are not met, the authorisation shall not apply or should not apply. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Wassenberg. I call Mrs Van Tongeren van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that we Dutch are proud of the Wadden Sea and the government has a duty to preserve this world heritage for future generations;]] [[Whereas new scientific insights warn of a rapid rise in sea level in the Wadden Sea;]] [[Whereas the regulator, the KNMI, uses scenarios for the maintenance and licensing of permits;]] [[Calls on the Government to update the KNMI scenario for sea level rise on the basis of the latest scientific findings and to send it to the Chamber before 1 October 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Wadden Sea is a unique and protected nature reserve;]] [[noting that natural gas extraction under the Wadden Sea threatens this nature reserve;]] [[points out that the extraction of natural gas under the Wadden Sea should be phased out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-148]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Wassenberg and Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u115	I hope you will allow me to do this, Mr President. I suspect that this is the last debate I have had with this minister in this Chamber. I would like to thank him for all the serious, substantive clashes we have had and for the passion he has for this subject too. Despite the fact that we often disagreed, we tried to work together as best we could in the country's interest. Perhaps we should list the last motion so that we can give it to the Minister, because I know how much he really loves all our motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u116	That is very thoughtful of you, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr. Chairman. D66 isn't filing any motions this time. A number of motions have already been tabled and we will look at them with the spokesperson, Stientje van Veldhoven. I do have a brief question for the Minister. The Minister indicated that the information on the measurements would come to us. I would like to know when that will happen and whether it will be in the form of a letter. Perhaps I can help the Minister a little by mentioning that the measurements to which I refer from the Chamber document on No. 144 come, the letter of February 1, 2017. It contains the recommendations of the Audit Committee, on which I would like to receive a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u118	Clear, Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas extraction under the Wadden Sea is subject to explicit conditions at various times;]] [[Whereas mineral extraction in the Wadden region is heavily dependent on measurement and monitoring moments;]] [[Whereas it was already clear in 2013 what required studies had to be carried out;]] [[calls on the Government to intervene earlier in the non-fulfilment of the conditions laid down in the extraction of mineral resources, which could lead to the closure (partly) of mineral extraction in the Wadden region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of mineral extraction, measurement and monitoring reports are not rarely provided by the economically dependent producer;]] [[Whereas any possible influence on relevant measurement and monitoring data should be avoided;]] [[calls on the government, measurement and monitoring reports that are essential for assessing the effects of mineral extraction on soil decline, to ensure that by default independent monitoring and investigations are carried out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-150]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29684-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u120	I call Mr Graus for his second term. He speaks on behalf of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u121	Yes, for now, Mr. Chairman. I didn't expect it right before the election, but I'm still standing. I must honestly say that I must trust the Minister and some of the scientists who have assisted me. I am also confident that both this minister and his successor or successor will intervene if the conditions are not met, as Mr Wassenberg also outlined. Even if there is a danger to humans and animals, we will not be able to do so. I won't explain what I mean by as-danmotions, but we're not going to support them. I would also like to thank this Minister. It's probably my last time, too, but hopefully it's not the last time I see him. I still have an invitation to the Minister's house and I will certainly use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u122	I thought you were going to the Wadden Sea together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u123	Maybe. Or we're gonna ride a motorcycle, because we're both bikers. The rigidity of a shipping container that he often had as minister did not always suit me well. But that's why he did good for the government. But I have to say, I have always said it, and I say it again now that, despite having collided often and hard, I think that one of the best ministers I have experienced over the past eleven years was putting party politics aside for a moment. I know the Secretary of State is a man of pleasure and kindness in private. I wish him a safe ride.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Graus. I am curious to see what Mrs De Vries is about to report. However, it waives a second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. It is clear that he will look at the difference with the Delta programme and that this will come to the Chamber in the third quarter of 2017. The Minister also clearly states that the "hand on the crane" principle is maintained and that the SodM will intervene at the time when things are not being handled by the NAM. I think that this is perfectly clear and I will not support the motions that have just been tabled on these points either. I can hardly imagine that this is really the last debate with this minister. I'll wait and see; he'll get the farewell words at the drink or something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u126	The Minister has indicated that he needs ten minutes to assess the motions. I can see some surprised looks, but I'll give him the ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u127	Six motions have been tabled and a question has been asked. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Eijs had another question. I had already told her that I would inform the Chamber in writing as regards the recommendations of the Audit Committee. In the meantime, it is possible to tell her that the recommendations of the Audit Board are always followed. I propose that we agree that, if I do not follow a recommendation, I should let the Chamber know. In this case, Mrs Van Eijs can assume that the recommendations will be followed. If it's any different, if it's only on one part, I'll let the Chamber know. I hope that is enough for Mrs Van Eijs. It is also claimed that not all permit conditions would be met, in particular as regards the gas extraction by the NAM in the area. However, the conditions of authorisation shall be met, except for one point. The SodM wanted a good long-term study, but that is not being met at the moment. There is a long-term study of NAM, but it is not good enough. The enforcement process has started and this should lead to compliance with that permit condition by 31 October. Then I come to the motion in part No. 146 by Mr Wassenberg and others, in which the government is asked not to grant new permits for gas extraction in and near the Wadden Sea, such as at Ternaard. There is a permit for extraction in that area, but if there is a supplement or a change, there will be a extraction plan which will then have to be decided. In addition, an environmental permit must be granted on the basis of the spatial rules. This is now happening with regard to the extraction at Ternaard. That is exactly what I have to deal with in accordance with the legal rules that we have laid down for that. If the legal rules are complied with, the extraction plan shall be authorised and the environmental permit granted. That is the way it should be in a rule of law, and we must stick to it. That is why I reject Mr Wassenberg's motion. In the second motion by Mr Wassenberg, on item No. 147, the government is asked to stop gas extraction in and near the Wadden Sea until all the conditions of the permit are met. For independent supervision, we have the State surveillance of the Mines. If the SodM thinks that something is not good on a particular part, it will be maintained. In this case, this has also happened on a component. There is a deadline for this, which is still running. It is up to the SodM to ensure that the authorisation is complied with in this respect. It is not desirable to cross this by suddenly stopping the extraction in the area and abandoning this entire legal process with the involvement of the supervisor. I therefore advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 148 by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Beckerman. It invites the government to update the KNMI scenario for sea level rise and to send that updated scenario to the Chamber. I'm not prepared to do that. Last June, we adopted a new scenario, both for the next five years and for the next five years. We have done so on the basis of the most up-to-date data. There is no reason to cross that five-yearly rhythm, by coming up with something new after a year. That would create problems for ourselves. We have a five-yearly rhythm, with annual monitoring and reporting, on the basis of which we assess whether the "hand on the crane" principle should be applied. I therefore reject this motion by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u129	How big would the new scientific insight have to be before the minister does anything? I understand the five-year rhythm. That is tasty and predictable, but new peer-reviewed studies in Nature warn for a faster sea level rise. When would the Minister say that the scenario should be recalibrated and that we cannot wait another three, four, five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u130	I don't need scenarios and studies for that, but I need measurements for that. Every year it's measured. It examines whether or not the decrease in the soil of a few millimeters per year can be caused by the extraction of gas and the extraction of salt, and whether or not the effects of the rise in sea level are in balance with what washes the supply of sand from the North Sea to the Wadden region. As soon as it becomes clear that the situation is not balanced, that the operating space is exceeded and that the natural values are affected, we must apply the 'hand on the crane' principle. I don't need scenario studies for that at all. For this I need calculations that are delivered each year and audited by the Audit Board, with the whole being supervised by the State surveillance of the Mines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mrs. Van Tongeren, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u132	The measurements show that the projections behind these five-year scenarios are systematically too positive. I gave the example of Ameland. From 1991 onwards, too positive is always projected on the basis of five-year scenarios. The readings are always underneath. The Minister doesn't act on that. Nor does the Minister act on the new scientific insights. I'm sorry to hear that. Nor does the Minister indicate an alarm value on the basis of which he could say: if there is such a great, different insight, I will not wait for those five years. I would like to hear that from the Minister, but now I just hear him say: no matter what happens in science, I am waiting for my five-year period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u133	The reality is different from that outlined by Mrs Van Tongeren. The reality is that last year, on the basis of the most up-to-date data, we were able to establish a sea-level rise scenario for the next five years. So that's a very topical scenario. Moreover, every time in the last ten years the hard figures that became available showed that the "hand on the crane" scenario we have established did not need to be applied, because there was no excess of the operating space. I continue to follow this closely, because I believe that action should be taken if activities are to be carried out at the expense of the natural values of the Wadden region. That is also what Mrs Mulder, Mr Graus and Mrs De Vries said. I think we should do it that way. We are very attentive to this and we have organised it in an excellent way. The motion-Van Tongeren c.s. in piece No. 149 which states that the extraction of natural gas under the Wadden Sea must be phased out is equivalent to the Wassenberg and Others motion in part No. 147. I didn't recommend that motion, so I advise against this motion. In the motion-Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 150 the government is asked to intervene earlier in failing to fully meet the conditions laid down. We have an independent supervisor to ensure that the conditions are met. It is of the opinion that this is not the case and has said that it should be done better. The supervisor has also set a deadline for this. We must also give this independent supervisor the opportunity to do so. We live in the rule of law. We've got everything laid down in laws. We monitor everything and let independent institutions do it. We'll have that evaluated by the Audit Board and by state supervision. If state surveillance wants something extra, it demands it. If that is not enough, state surveillance will give the opportunity to improve it. I think we are doing this in a very sensible, responsible way. It would not be good to do what is in this motion by Mrs Beckerman c.s. Stand. That's why I'm deceiving that motion. In her motion in part No. 151 Ms Beckerman asked the government to have measurement and monitoring reports, which are essential for the assessment of the effects, verified and examined independently by default. I find that a disappointing motion. We have very good things in our country. There are many independent institutions available, each with its own expertise. We all use them to ensure that they contribute to the protection of this valuable nature reserve, the Wadden Sea. All these independent institutes are reviewed by the Audit Board and by the State Monitoring of Mines. That's why I'm being informed. And I'm being checked by the House of Representatives again. We've got that perfect for each other. In my view, therefore, there is no reason to support this motion. So I advise her not to go to the Chamber. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-7.u134	Thank you, Minister. The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. That concludes this debate. We will continue with the next debate, but not before I thank the Minister for coming. In any case, this is the last debate for the Minister's summer recess. We will see if it will be his final debate at all.
