ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u1	We already had the Secretary of State for Finance in our midst. The Minister of Security and Justice is now joining us. Speaking time is, as you know, two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Although a record of cocaine is intercepted, that is kilos and not catches. The number of cocaine seizures is falling dramatically. Everyone is now concerned about the major problems in customs matters. There is much discontent, not only with the customs officers themselves, but also with the police, the judiciary and the mayor. The problem is far greater than drug smuggling alone. Douaniers say that if they have stopped a large shipment of drugs, you can put the clock on the clock that the weeks after liquidations will take place. We know the examples of Amsterdam. If we want to combat drug crime seriously and increase security, we need more people and more resources. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas police believe that South American drug cartels are increasingly smuggling cocaine into Europe and that only 10% of the cocaine smuggled is intercepted;]] [[noting that customs officers themselves, the police, the public prosecutor and the mayor of Rotterdam have serious concerns about the capacity of customs in the port;]] [[Considering that customs should be more risk-oriented, thus reducing the use of generic controls;]] [[calls on the Government to increase customs capacity and to ensure that generic customs controls are not reduced but stepped up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31934-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time and to help you, I can endorse almost all the words that Mr Van Raak has just said. We have had a good debate about the misery in the port of Rotterdam. We've seen how terrible things are going there. Much more needs to be done than the cabinet is doing right now. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are serious concerns about the import of drugs in the port of Rotterdam and how it can be effectively addressed;]] [[Whereas to date the volume of drug imports has not been properly identified and the police and the judiciary suspect that what they are now intercepting is only a small proportion of actual drug imports;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a wide-ranging and independent investigation into the extent of the drug problem in the port of Rotterdam in order to make future-proof proposals to resolve this problem and to report to the Court on its findings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31934-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats also believes that organised crime and drug imports through Rotterdam should be dealt with on a permanent basis. This therefore needs to be done, in addition to what is being done locally in Rotterdam. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to focus on smarter and targeted surveillance and enforcement in the port of Rotterdam, such as camera surveillance, targeted control missions and advanced scans;]] [[considers that this monitoring should be supportive and not at the expense of the capacity of customs officials;]] [[Whereas smart enforcement also requires immediate response to signals (the so-called short blow);]] [[Furthermore, considering that smart enforcement should also lead to follow-up investigations into underlying criminal structures and organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure and, where appropriate, increase capacity for surveillance, enforcement and detection at, inter alia, customs in the Rotterdam port for smart enforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marcouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31934-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr. Chairman. During the general discussion on how to deal with smuggling that we have held before the recess, we discussed drug smuggling in particular. I myself made a point of the necessary cooperation between the various ports. Of course, Rotterdam's seaport is the largest port, but there are more ports in this country. Fortunately, I understand from both heads of government that there is a draft action plan that should lead to enhanced cooperation in dealing with this crime. It may seem a little small beer, but I would like to insist, while we are sitting here together, that we make a definitive plan of the draft plan and take action in so far as this does not already happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u6	We'll wait until the rulers get all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Raak notes that there are concerns. Before I go into his motion, I would like to put a few words to that concern. We're all plagued by a ghost. Mr Van Raak, customs and I too are plagued by the same ghost. That is the idea that a lot of customs capacity has disappeared or will disappear in the port of Rotterdam. I've got it right in front of me. No customs capacity has disappeared in the port of Rotterdam since 2010. Then I'll take the Rotterdam harbour and Rijnmond together. In fact, customs capacity has increased slightly. There are 1,400 men at customs in Rotterdam plus Rijnmond, 700 of them in physical units. That capacity hasn't decreased. Customs stay on strength and the mainports have the full attention. There is no plan to reduce customs capacity. That is my contribution to the fight against this ghost.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u8	How is it that 2,711 cocaine seizures were made in 2011, 1,540 in 2015 and 962 in 2015? Why did that number of catches fall so much? Can the Secretary of State explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u9	I don't know. It's being investigated. I can say that the number of catches in Rotterdam in 2016 was the second highest in the last six years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u10	A lot of cocaine has been intercepted. That also has to do with the fact that those charges are unprecedentedly large. Customs are right to say: if there is an interception, then you also notice that there will be a reckoning. The interests are growing, crime is growing, the influence of the Mafia is growing. But customs officers say they themselves make an estimate that no more than 10% are intercepted. They also say that the figures are being tampered with, that it is said that supervision is being exercised, but that this is in fact far too little in practice. Are those noises which the Secretary of State says: well, the customs officers, they will talk but what; we have it in order with the Ministry on paper, so it will be correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u11	The Minister for Security and Justice will say something about mapping the undermining image. Let's wait for that before we come to judgment. I only mention that the number of cocaine seizures in Rotterdam in 2016 was the second highest figure in the last six years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u12	The Secretary of State is talking about a ghost. I would like to hear from him today that in his view there has never been a plan to bring capacity back, that concepts have gone around, and that we have received a copy of them to bring it back and that they have been withdrawn purely because everyone was screaming murder and fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u13	There is thought-forming about all kinds of fields and departments of customs in Rotterdam. There can be all kinds of proposals to make one smaller and the other bigger, to classify it differently and to shape the cooperation between Rotterdam and nationwide in a different way. For decades there have been constant reflections on how the changed undermining image can get hold of the organization over and over again and how it can do better. However, I say that I have no plans to reduce customs capacity in Rotterdam, that there are no customs capacity in Rotterdam, and that there have not been any in the last six years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u14	Maybe I'll come back to that at another time. Now the Secretary of State says that there has never been a plan to reduce the capacity of customs in the port of Rotterdam. So the concepts which have been suggested to me and which have gone around customs have never existed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u15	I know that there has been a lot of thinking in many areas to reduce one unit and the other larger or the other. However, I do not know of any plans or plans to reduce customs in Rotterdam. I know that there has been thought, even in the past...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u16	This is listening closely!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u17	... about the balance between rural and local. I know all that, but I do not know any plans to reduce the customs effort in the mainport Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u18	The Secretary of State continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u19	I do not wish to give an opinion on the motion on item No. 14 by Mr Van Raak. I would ask him to hold on to that motion and to wait for the letter of capacity, which deals with the Tax Administration and customs, with projections of the use of customs as a whole. The image isn't there yet, but it's definitely coming, because it's been promised. The motion is now premature. The second reason why the motion is premature is because we do not yet have the undermining image. The Minister will explain later. So we do not yet know what problem we are solving and with what capacity. You will. The same applies to the motion in part No. 16 by Mr Marcouch, who is making it a little more ludicrous. I mean that in a respectful way. He says that we need to guarantee the capacity for smart enforcement. It is a policy support if I may interpret the motion in such a way that it states that we must do what is necessary in view of the undermining image. In that case, too, I would suggest that he wait for the footage to come, both the undermining image and the tax administration's capacity letter, and hold the motion. Of course it's up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u20	Mr Marcouch, you may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u21	The verdict on my motion is fine. That's obvious. You are intervening yourself, but the previous motion has not been decided. However, I am curious to see what the Secretary of State thinks about this. What if Mr Van Raak's motion is not stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u22	The motion simply calls for more capacity. I would advise against that, but I would advise the author of the motion to inform himself of these two upcoming images, i.e. the undermining image and the capacity letter, before he decides whether to proceed with this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u23	And Mrs Van Torenburg's motion is for the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u24	Mr. Chairman. This motion in part No. I will deal with this because there are two developments which the Secretary of State has already pointed out and which are of great importance for this motion and its assessment. In general consultation we have exchanged that the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, the municipality of Rotterdam, customs and the Port Authority have agreed to establish an administrative consultation model called the port table. This port table has the task of looking fully at the problems of the port of Rotterdam. Of course, it's not just about cocaine smuggling. There is, of course, more crime in the port of Rotterdam than just the smuggling of cocaine, but the smuggling of cocaine is an urgent problem. We agree with the Court that it is essential to continue and possibly intensify its approach. Then I come to the second part of Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion. I agree with her that research needs to be done on what needs to be done. Fortunately, the assignment has already been given. In fact, the motion has already been filled in. With the funding I made available in this year's budget, thanks to the Chamber, RIEC Rotterdam will draw up an integral undermining image to bring together the knowledge of all individual partners. In addition, a floor stroke will be made to create an integral image. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows the undermining image of the RIEC. That is a very successful instrument. This time it will be very large and complicated, but also very important. The undermining image is then linked to the port table. This leads to a story that is needed to determine what needs to be improved in the Rotterdam port in terms of instruments and technology and possibly also in terms of people. In my opinion, therefore, Mrs Van Toorenburg's motion is already being filled in. Then two things can happen. Mrs Van Toorenburg can say that she agrees with my interpretation. If she thinks the motion is completed by linking the undermining image to the port table, which can lead to an integral picture of what is needed in the port of Rotterdam, then the motion supports policy and I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. But if Mrs Van Toorenburg says she actually wants something else, it becomes complicated. I would like to use energy effectively in this direction and invest in it, because everyone agrees that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u25	I would say in any case that the motion supports policy, because I want this investigation and I hear from the Minister that he is going to do it. I will look into whether I will hold the motion or put it to the vote, as the motion can be seen as a policy support and I think it is an important signal. Maybe the Minister will let me know if he sees the motion as a support in the back and as an important signal. Then I can put her to the vote with the explanation that the Minister is right to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u26	I have already made a decision and have already arranged the funding in my budget in order to do so. It is a little crazy to say that I have now received an important signal when I have already figured out with all the parties that it is necessary. The signal will be given while the attack is already underway. What if King Arthur and his knights are standing on a hill, ordering him to run forward and then someone else comes from the side asking, "Will I give the signal to attack?" It's a little late, 'cause we're already on our way. That signal might be more of a late-night clarinet hit. I'd say the motion is policy support. I support the formation of thought. The Chamber has to decide whether this clarion strike is still necessary in the light of the agreements we have made with all the parties involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u27	That's the Minister's name again. He comes with great theater. But the point is, as a Chamber, we have said that we want to have a serious investigation. The Minister then said, even after pressure from customs, that he wants to link the tables. I'll hold the motion with this explanation. But the theater with the claroon bang was not necessary, because that claroon bang was already given by the customs staff themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u28	At the request of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I propose her motion (31934, No. 15). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u29	At the Van-Raak motion in part No. 14 and the Marcouch motion in part No. 16 we will see what the proposers want. That means we're at the end of the VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u30	Excuse me. I almost forgot Mr Van Oosten. He rightly referred to the word 'concept' in the action plan undermining the ports of Moerdijk and Zeeland. I can inform Mr van Oosten that this action plan will be final. Mr Van Oosten asked if I could share the plan with the Chamber, but I cannot because it also contains operational information. Then it becomes very easy for a criminal in Zeeland to be active there. I would be happy to include the essence of the plan in a letter and send it to the Chamber. I do not know when I can do that, but I hope that this letter can be sent before the summer of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr Van Oosten must have noted that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-10.u32	On the motion in part No. 14 and the motion in part No. 16, assuming they are not arrested, will be voted on next Tuesday. I thank both rulers. I think the Secretary of State for Finance has now done his job.
