ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister. Thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today, we are considering a bill proposing that, in a case of partner killing, the child judge always judges whether contact or association with the perpetrator or the suspected perpetrator is really in the best interests of the child. This decision shall take place on the basis of a request from the Council for Child Protection. Unfortunately, this bill can apply to about 14 children a year. The PVV welcomes the improvement of the child's position as a survivor of a violent victim. The child is often severely traumatized, especially if it has also witnessed the murder of his or her parent by the other parent. The PVV has a question to the Minister about the concept of "interest of the child." Does this always take into account the will of the child? Is it true that this will may deviate from what the judge considers to be in the best interests of the child? I would like more clarification on this point. Then there's another question. How long is it expected of the Minister to have a request from the Children's Protection Council for a contact or transitional arrangement and to have a judicial decision? The proposal provides that the child judge may refuse contact or association between the perpetrator and his or her child for two years. Why limit this deadline to two years? A child may request that the court amend the contact or transitional arrangements. In the note on the report, the Minister does indicate a little bit of how this is going to work. But how is it prevented, for example, from making such a request under pressure from a guardian? There is talk of the possibility that a child may submit a request for amendment by means of a note or e-mail to the judge. How is the child informed about these possibilities? Why is it not possible for the child to declare his or her wishes orally? The PVV hopes that this bill guarantees more and better the rights of a child faced with a very dramatic circumstance. I would like to thank the Minister for submitting the legislative proposal and the President for speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. You just lost your mother as a child, and your father is the suspected or convicted perpetrator. A violent traumatic experience. Each year, an average of 14 partner deaths occur in the Netherlands, with about 26 children losing one of their biological parents because of the other parent. The consequences for the children are miserable. In 82% of children studied, stress complaints and behavioural problems are reported. These include anger, physical unrest, depression and aggressive behaviour. All adults like the victim's next of kin, the killer's family and the unsub themselves, are mostly self-involved, and almost no one is involved with the child. The child mostly just wants peace and quiet. Because of this calm we are debating today the change in the law. The amendment of the law obliges the Children's Protection Board, in the case of partner killing, to carry out an investigation into the transitional arrangements. On this basis, the court shall determine or deny access to a transitional arrangement. In the event of a withdrawal for two years or more, further requests from the offender-parent shall subsequently be declared inadmissible for two years. However, this change of law does not go far enough for the VVD. The VVD stands up for the victim's position. In this case, that's the child's position. We have done so in the past, and we will continue to do so consistently in the future. The safety and importance of the child must be central. The VVD therefore wishes to table an amendment in which the period of inadmissibility of new applications by the offender-parent becomes proportionate to the period of disqualification of the children's court. Our amendment limits the period of inadmissibility to three years. This amendment is in line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights by maximizing it to three years. The VVD wants to ensure the necessary rest for the child better. That is what this amendment achieves. Only the child can make an interim request to see the parent. My colleague from the PVV mentioned it. This provides the child with a safe environment to process the traumatic events at rest. That period and that rest is really necessary. These children do not want to be constantly dragged to court during this rest period. What I would like to know from the Minister is exactly what happens if a child wants to get in touch with the parent. This can be read in the file, but I would like to hear it from the Minister himself. I can imagine that a 12-year-old child, for example, does not know how to apply to a judge or what assistance it needs. Can the Minister give us more insight into this process? Before I finish, at least I want to thank the CDA and the SP. If I am correct, they filed the motion in 2011 which led to this. I am very pleased that these steps have been taken and that we are talking here today about the importance and safety of the child, which are very important to all of us. That's why we're here today. We are also tabling this amendment so that peace can really be guaranteed. I'm rounding up. The child should be at the heart of the issue, and this change of law, in conjunction with our amendment, will do so. I hope that other parties will recognise that at the moment they are being asked to make a choice between the best interests of the child on the one hand and the best interests of the murdering parent on the other. I am counting on the House to support this amendment, because support for it is choosing the best interests of the child. That interest of the child must always be at the forefront.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	Perhaps we will talk about the amendment of the VVD, which we are opposed to, in the event of interruption, but now I would like to ask a question about something else. It is very important that the child's voice is heard and that the child is supported. That's also the VVD's plea. I myself have an amendment in preparation for the purpose of arranging for a special curator. The situation is unique: the father or mother is in prison and the other parent is no longer alive. The statement also refers to the informal access to justice, but, of course, it is very complicated for a child aged 6, 8 or 12. Does the VVD agree that there should be a special curator at all times at the start of the trial?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	This of course depends on the answer to the VVD's question about the child's request to have contact with the parent in specific cases. I am very curious to hear the Minister's opinion on this and the views he can give in it. On this basis, we can assess whether additional solutions are needed in this area. I await the Minister's reply; then we can conclude whether this curator is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	I would not make these matters dependent on each other in that sense. I understand that the VVD is interested in the Minister's answers; I also have a number of questions. This situation is unique in itself: very often there is undersupervision or removal. The judge may then decide to appoint a special curator. If there are conflicts of interest, there is actually arbitrariness. There is, of course, always a conflict in this situation. I therefore ask the VVD once again whether they are open to considering whether we can really regulate in the law that such a special curator is appointed so that the child's voice is always heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	The VVD is always open to proposals and ideas. It is important, however, to first look at what that amendment is about; for example, I have not yet read it myself. So I want to be able to see it first. Furthermore, I think it is very important how the Minister responds to the questions that we and the PVV have asked about the position of the child and how it can look for his parent in the course of justice. If we have a little more insight into this, we will actually be able to better assess whether that amendment provides the solutions to the problems that might arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a law that will hopefully have to be applied as little as possible. It has already been said that on average 14 partner killings take place every year, with 26 children losing their biological parent. That is already extremely violent, downright horrible. It gets even more intense when children then end up in some kind of power game between two families fighting for the children's association, or when they have to visit the killer of their other parent. We know the terrible stories from the hearings a few years ago. It really grabs you to the throat when you read quotes, for example from carers, like this: "She has a low self-image at the moment, because she is the daughter of a killer." Or this: "So we told them Mom was dead. I really had to tell you that Daddy was bad and he did that and went to jail and couldn't live at home either." This is very intense to tell. Or when a kid in an interview says, "I'm scared, but I'm going anyway. Daddy misses me so much. I miss him a little bit, Dad misses me more." These are extremely harsh quotes, which underline the importance of this issue. It is a small group, but therefore the importance of this law, which deals with the remaining parent clause, is no less great. Like Madeleine van Toorenburg of the CDA, my colleague Nine Kooiman has repeatedly argued for this on behalf of the SP. We have said that we think it appropriate that at least we should first examine whether it is desirable and in the best interests of the child, and that we should look carefully at what the child wants. Therefore, the SP Group wholeheartedly supports this law, in the hope that the proposed course of action will facilitate the process somewhat after such a major event. In the case of partner killing, therefore, the children's court must always first assess whether contact or handling is in the best interests of the child, following an investigation by the Council for the Protection of Children. And if this request for contact or handling is rejected, the child should not be harassed annually with a new request for handling. This is a breach of access to justice, which we must also name here, but we understand why it is proposed: because the child can benefit from rest after the traumatic loss of a parent. New legal procedures give rise to stress and unrest, as research has shown. And yet I am going to ask the following question: is there still any possibility of tailor-made work, so that in some cases judges may consider that the remaining parent will be more receptive in a request for association or contact? Judges will also always have to explicitly motivate the time limit in their judgment. Now for the debate on the two-year deadline. On the one hand, the SP welcomes the fact that we are now taking steps with this law. However, we must not overplay our hand. In fact, if we are going to extend that time limit now, we are denying someone access to justice for more than two years, which I would say, with caution, could come up against objections in the First Chamber, but also at the European Court of Human Rights, for example. On the other hand, there are situations in which, even after those two years, it is not in the best interests of the child to be involved in legal proceedings by a request from your parent's killer. So this has to be really customized. That is why we say: could we no longer do justice to this complicated situation by not necessarily extending this deadline, with the possible objections that it might have, but by giving the guardian and the Council of Children's Protection the power to ask the court to extend the time limit in which the parent is not admissible in his application? For example, what is needed could be considered per situation and per moment. So if the child is not yet well and the child benefits from a longer period of rest and really is not waiting for a trial in which the father demands treatment, then this period can be continued by a request from the guardian or the Council for Child Protection. How does the Minister see this? What are the possibilities at this point? And if these possibilities are not yet available, can I have a response from the Minister to this proposal? One question that may be slightly outside the scope of the law is whether the minister can also reflect on the contact and association with the family of the remaining parent; the grandparents and grandmothers, aunts and uncles. What rights do they have and should they, according to the Minister, have? Finally, I would like to have a further explanation from the Minister of his answer to our question on the protocol; on whether or not to decide at one or two sessions on custody and handling. The Minister replied that the Children's Protection Council could recommend that this be dealt with in two sessions. But when is that the case? Is the directive really such that it is being dealt with together in as many cases as possible? After all, the more hearings, the more incriminating the child. In conclusion, once again compliments from the SP on this law, because it tries to make a horrible problem in the legal sphere a little less painful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mrs Van Toorenburg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. You rightly say that I am speaking on behalf of the CDA, but I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Labour Party as well. This is also, in fact, symbolic of the bill we are discussing today, because if there is anything that connects this Chamber, it is our involvement in crime victims. In recent years, several spokesmen visited meetings of the Stichting Aankeid Doet Voorken. Colleagues read names; that was very impressive. They wore ribbons through different cities to express their involvement in the Association Parents of a Murdered Child, Attention Does Speak and all the victim groups that each time call attention to their position. It has never been in our cold clothes, and that is why it is very good that we are having the debate on this today. I'm taking you to a meeting on February 5, 2011. Then I was allowed to represent the Chamber. We always tried to split it up a little bit, and that time I was there. Then grandparents spoke to us about the drama that had happened to them: their child was killed and their grandchildren were in great distress. The grandchildren were forced to go to the tbs institution where, in this case, the father was locked up. They told me how awfully poignant that was and that they got the feeling that no one was looking closely at what was going on. With that message, I went back to the Chamber. The Committee on Security and Justice was directly inclined to look together for what to do about it. We have finally chosen to speak with experts and experience experts first. We have spoken to grandparents and also people who have had to deal with children who were next of kin to victims of violence in a different way. The next of kin were really heard in this room. I spoke to them yesterday. Through me, they would very much like to thank the Chamber for the fact that we have continued on this dossier and that we have looked at what we could do about it. I told you it was February 5th 2011, so it's been a long time. But it wasn't for nothing and there hasn't been a night of ice with this law either. We took a step-by-step look at what we could do. Mrs Kooiman and I, and later also Mrs Bouwmeester, have gone to Utrecht to speak with all kinds of experts and, above all, to hear how big the problem really is. What are they running into? It became very clear that children are extremely traumatized and that they have actually lost two parents. How to handle it best is a search. These people have come to the Chamber to share with us what they believe should be done about it. They really called the Chamber and the Cabinet to action. And a lot has happened. In preparation for this debate, I have read back everything, including what was said at the time. Then you can see that the current protocol of action has already improved very, very much, that better contact is being established, that people are going to stand directly next to the child, that the judges know more quickly what needs to be done and that Youth Services know more quickly what needs to be done. So much has already happened. I think it would be good to thank the Cabinet for these important steps. But more had to be done. Research has then been carried out and the bill we are discussing today has been announced. Let it be said straight away that the CDA is very pleased with the proposal before us that it is de facto the final piece of a complete process that we have entered into with each other. When I look at the law, there are a few things that still need attention. We are very content with the fact that a construction is being chosen where the board will really look at what is needed, that there is a form of "no contact unless" and that it is being presented to the judge who will then check whether it is really in the best interests of the child whether there should be any contact/circulation. The WODC study "Care for children after partner killing" also highlights the importance of preventing a child from being traumatized again, getting stuck in a fight and eventually creating a huge conflict. It also shows how important it is to have some kind of neutral guidance and how important it is to create peace in this very turbulent time when a child has de facto lost two parents. How can we ensure that in this traumatic situation the best interests of the child are guaranteed? There are still a few things we have some questions about, among other things about the provision of information. Can't it be very vulnerable to give the parent who can't have any more information about children? How does the Minister view that? Shouldn't we have something to do with that somehow? Of course, it can be very complicated for a child. There's no more contact. The rest is guaranteed. There has been an opinion on it and a judge has ruled on it. Shouldn't we look at how much information there is still to be exchanged with those who are actually no longer allowed to interact? Then there's another point. The Minister has already dealt with it in the explanatory statement, but I would like us to talk about it today: what if there is a suspicion, but ultimately there is no conviction, because it turns out that the other parent is not the culprit? Then how can we build that contact in a responsible way as soon as possible? That may be very necessary. I think we should talk about that, because if you stop something very rigorous, you also have to think very carefully about how to make something happen again. Are we satisfied with this bill in all facets? Let me be quite honest in this: yes, but there are still some wishes we have, but as Mr Van Nispen rightly pointed out, we should not be asking things over. We're already doing something very radical. We are actually saying that the best interests of the child are at the heart of the matter and that this means that the parent can no longer be involved and that no visit is made and then that other parent cannot even ask the judge for a certain period of time to restore contact. That's a big deal. Then I really wonder whether it would be wise to add another step with an amendment, namely that it would not be possible to do so over a longer period of time. I have studied international case law. Then you can see that there are statements with unspeakable names. I am not going to venture to do so now, but they are all quite neat in the explanatory statement, which shows that there is a very critical point there. I also went to talk to our senators and asked them how they look at this, because I don't want this bill to end. Of course they don't have a final judgment yet, because they deal with it as carefully as we do, but there is a real shock when you tell parents that they shouldn't even turn to a judge for a very long period of time to see if the contact can be restored. So, as much as you might think that such an amendment could contribute, I believe that when you ask about it, you run the risk that the bill will not pass through the Chambers and that very complicated international case law will also be developed to make it plain. In all honesty, I should not think of that, even bearing in mind the grandparents who have asked us to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	Was this your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u12	No. I have another subject after this, but I think the interruption is about this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u13	Very good. Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think Mrs Van Toorenburg is right that you should be careful not to become an Icarus flying too close to the sun, and that you should not shoot through in this case either. There she finds the VVD at her side. Mr Van Nispen also mentioned the need to think carefully about whether you are not asking about it. That is precisely why we have limited it in the amendment to three years. In fact, a two-year denial by the children's court means that the parent is dismissed as inadmissible for two years, not for three years, but for two years. Inadmissibility of two and a half years shall be inadmissibility of two and a half years and inadmissibility of three years shall be inadmissibility of three years, but inadmissibility of four years shall remain inadmissibility of three years. I, too, have studied the case law. I see that a period of three years is in line with the case law and the spirit and letter of Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In fact, that means that there should be no objections in the First Chamber if it is in line with the Treaty. Doesn't Mrs Van Toorenburg think that, if we limit it to three years and ensure that it is in line with the European Convention on Human Rights, we can give more peace to children who, for example, have three years of disenfranchisement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u15	We differ on whether it is in line with the Treaty. Because I don't think so. I don't think it's in line with the case law either. There are several statements in which it has been said quite generously that it is quite possible to deny access to justice for a year; in special circumstances it can be extended and that has been done, to two years. However, I think that we are really at risk of the European Court saying, although I dare not speak before the European Court, that this is a step too far. In a case where the father killed the mother, the judge can say: I want you to have no contact with your child for three or four years. As much as I would like the child not to be forced to think about it at all, I think the risk is very high that we will be flogged back with international case law, because we are doing a lot, and that we will be empty-handed. I don't want to take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u16	A brief reaction. It seems to me appropriate to ask the Minister to confirm that the three-year period is in line with the case law. I think we can get a good answer from the Ministry and then assess whether this is in line with the Treaty and case law. If this is in line with the Treaty and if the Minister confirms that the three-year period falls within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice, does the CDA support the amendment, knowing that we cannot be flogged back internationally?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u17	I'm a very stubborn lawyer, who's been seriously digging into this. I attach great importance to the Minister's judgment, but there is no international ruling on this. This does not yet exist. So it's still interpretation. I've made an analysis of the various statements. It has been said that a year is fine and that maybe two years can be. Whatever the Minister says in his wisdom, I will certainly weigh that up. I do not think he can convince me that we should take the risk of asking over. I would like to include this in an evaluation of the law, which we certainly must keep. This law will not be necessary often, but we will see practical examples. Then we'll know if there's a risk. Maybe judges do say, if I do a four-year denial, someone can't go to court for three years, so I'll cut the time limit. That's a risk there is. I've spoken to judges. There's a risk. If we ask about it, we may have much less benefit from this valuable legislation. We are now discussing this point: would you stop protecting and giving a child peace and quiet? The intrinsic answer is "yes," but actually that is over-questioning and therefore a risk to the law. There's still a risk in it. The situation may arise that one parent has not killed the other parent, but has seriously injured. I understand the reasoning in the explanatory statement, in which the Minister says: that is very fluid; that is much more common in the situation of domestic violence; of course you have to look at the interests, but a rigorous decision like this may not be appropriate. I would like to put the following question to the Minister. What if someone has wounded the other parent to such an extent that the parent can no longer provide care? What if that parent is seriously injured in a hospital, in a coma or can't do anything? What can we do? Do we have enough to do with the protocol of action? Can we share here that we have the request to see if we can find some space in that? There could be some flexibility in that. What can we do in the event of serious violence that does not lead to death? Finally, the Minister also looked at current cases at the request of the CDA. Can the Minister say anything about that? There are things that are happening now, poignant situations that are happening now. Can we also discuss with the Council what is possible in these cases and whether it is possible to take a step in that direction? Short and good, good wine needs time. The same goes for this law. It's been years since grandparents made the call to us. This Chamber has really wanted to hear them and has made sure that today we are dealing with a law that has been properly taken up by the Ministry and which has been preceded by protocol of action. They have made it possible for us to actually give something to vulnerable children, whose position is more properly dealt with by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the clause of the right of contact or association between a parent and a child after partner killing. Let me put it first: a number of colleagues have already pointed this out how profound and shocking these situations are, not only for the children who lose their parents, but also for the immediate environment. It's a very complex case. One child is not only losing a parent to murder, but possibly another who is in temporary and perhaps also permanent custody. The kid's gonna lose his home base in one go. These are violent events that are often still raging at a later age. It is therefore essential for D66 that when the Chamber takes decisions on these issues, the best interests of the child should be number one. That has also been Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Kooiman's approach to the issue. I welcome the fact that this issue has been put on the political agenda. As far as the proposal before us today is concerned, my group sees strong points, but also a number of points of interest, however difficult it may be in this type of debate where emotion also plays a role. I hope that in this debate the Minister will be able to resolve some of the uncertainties. I would also like to clarify the amendments I have tabled. Because this subject is accompanied by many emotions, it is good to look at the facts. The trauma centre of UMC Utrecht presented, also in response to a request from the Chamber for more research, a very thorough and valuable research titled "Care for children after partner killing" in 2014. Fourteen partner killings take place each year, and in most cases, in 94%, the child's desire is fortunately followed in relation to the relationship or contact with the offender parent. With five kids, this was different. In three cases, the child wanted to be involved, but was not granted this. In two situations, the opposite was the case. From the report and the explanatory statement, I couldn't get what's behind it. I do have a question about this, not that we always dive into individual cases, but the voice of the child is an important basis on which this bill is based. It must never be about dealing against the will of the child. So I'm curious what happened in those five cases. I would like to stress that the figures show that in a significant part of the cases, fortunately, the child's wish has been followed. I'm gonna join the bill. As colleagues have already pointed out, this legislative proposal adds an important step, namely that the children's judge will take a decision on the basis of the advice and examination of the board. D66 sees advantages and disadvantages. Especially when there is a conflict between the parties, the independent vote of the judge gives more weight, which can also lead to better acceptance and peace among those involved. This does not, of course, mean that a court ruling will satisfy all parties as a matter of course. We have just talked about inadmissibility, but people can, of course, appeal until that time. That could take a long time. Does the Minister see that, too? I also see that the current practice in practice, namely the mutual agreement procedure, the protocol of action, also has a positive effect on the role of the Council. On the other hand, when parties come together, adding an additional judicial procedure can lead to an additional dynamic of such a legal process. It also leads to additional stress for all parties, including the child. The trauma centre of UMC Utrecht has done this valuable research. I've been talking to that. It's their concern, too. If there is a conflict, then it may happen that parties do not emerge, but what if parties do? Then why take the necessary step to the children's court? I think it is important for the Minister to explain this clearly. In addition, children's judges are extremely busy. They often rely very much on the advice of the council. How do we deal with this situation? How can we ensure that, if a matter comes before the children's court, it can actually form an independent opinion and reach an informed decision? Then I come to the inadmissibility for two years. The Council of State rightly criticised the earlier proposal. I haven't heard from my colleagues about it, but the proposal has been radically changed, revised. By the way, Mrs Van Toorenburg said something about it. In any case, the proposal has been considerably watered down. My question is still, because of these two years, whether it does not cover Article 6 of the ECHR, namely the fundamental right of access to justice for every citizen and the periodic right of access to justice for the offender-parent. I would like to hear from the Minister how this proposal relates to those rights. More importantly, Article 25 of the IVRK states the right of the child to periodic evaluation. If we look at these two years of denial, purely and simply because of the importance of peace for the child, then I think that is a bit too simple a representation of things. In addition to the right to stability and continuity of education, a child also has the right to know and be raised by parents. That's clearly an interest of the child. I am pleased that the legislative proposal has been amended, but as far as those two years are concerned, I wonder whether this is not contrary to the treaties we have signed. With me, the Council of State and a large group of consulted parties, Defence for Children, the Council of Justice, the Council of Criminal Law and Youth Protection, have also wondered why it is not sticking to that one year. This is also common practice in case law. Then one final question on this point. For the unsub-parent, who is only a suspect, that inadmissibility applies again for two years, but what if it turns out that the person is no longer suspected? I'm assuming the inadmissibility will be over immediately. I think so, but I'd like to get a clear answer from the Minister. Then it's about the suspect. A criminal investigation can sometimes take months or years, but in the end it may prove that someone is not suspect and is not the culprit. In itself, that time has been a severe punishment. I saw that the VVD asked written questions about the innocence charge. In such situations, how can we prevent the relationship between parent and child from being seriously damaged and there is a problem of attachment? That is also one of the reasons why I am opposed to the VVD amendment on that point. I'd like a response from the Minister. Did he take that into account? I also think that Mrs Van Toorenburg's comment is right. You shouldn't go to extremes. What's lying there is already quite a step. But why does this proposal focus on murder and why not on an attempted murder, sometimes with all the terrible consequences of that? Why is that outside of this bill? Then I come to a very important subject for my group, namely the special curator. Especially in complex situations arising after partner killing, it is very important that the child's voice is sufficiently heard. After all, one parent was murdered and the other is in detention, in custody. A child may then be torn between the opposing loyalties. I can imagine anything, even when it comes to grandparents, but a child could get caught up in it. You're only gonna be six, eight, or twelve years old, and then you're gonna have to take advantage of the informal course of justice. You're being raised by family or friends who say, "You're not going to your father, are you?" I therefore very much hope that colleagues will support our amendment on the special curator, so that at least in this unique specific situation the child's voice is always heard, that there is a special curator present at a possible hearing and that he can go along with it when a child is heard by the judge. I would like a response from the Minister to our amendment. Then I'll come to the stepparents. The law speaks of the legal parent. I am curious how we deal with the situation of, for example, a step-parent who has the authority and who has family life anyway. They are outside this bill, but they can at some point say, "I have authority. I'm not the legal parent, so I didn't recognize the child, but I do have the authority and family life, so I also want that contact and that association." How do we deal with that? How do we deal with stepparents and foster parents anyway? I refer to the State's Reich Parenthood Committee, which may offer other possibilities. It is important that we make legislation which will continue to be topical for the future. I'm here for enforcement. We all know that transitional arrangements are agreed in the Netherlands to which parents do not comply. The UMC report contains an example of a father who keeps trying to get in touch, although it is not allowed. Conversely, we know from general discussions on family law that sometimes transitional arrangements are really not respected. How do we deal with that, I ask the Minister. Two final points. Situations after partner killing are complex. You may want to close this up with legislation, but what I am missing in the proposal is the UMC report, which I refer to, is that the trauma processing and support of the child in mourning are very important. Sometimes there's PTSD. In the proposal I see very little about that. The UMC made a number of in-depth recommendations and drew some important conclusions. I would very much like to hear from the Minister how we deal with this. It is not just what we have now regulated in this law. The care and trauma care of children are essential. Finally, I have tabled an amendment to evaluate after five years. That's the usual deadline for legislative proposals. There are quite a few questions and doubts. It's new and actually it's quite a unique law. So I think it is right that we should look at effectiveness and effectiveness in five years' time. We can therefore see whether we have any points that we wish to improve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. This bill concerns the rather exceptional but very shocking situation that arises after an ex-partner has taken his or her ex-partner's life, and the decision has to be made whether the children still need to see the surviving parent. According to figures from the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre, this life-defining event occurs about 14 times a year and affects about 30 children. In almost half of all cases, the child wants to continue to see the parent. In 94% of cases, this is met by the guardianship institution. Understandably, such a decision is extremely sensitive. GroenLinks is therefore pleased that the cabinet has taken a very careful look at the meaningful opinions of the Council of State and the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection. As a result, the sharp edges of the original proposal have been removed. The Council of State has also succeeded in removing the necessary bias with a number of well-chosen examples. It is not just fathers who kill mothers; mothers are also guilty of partner killing, as an act of desperation for protection against abuse and sexual violence. This insight relativizes an earlier thesis that in the past children are forced against their will to interact with their surviving parent. The Council of State fortunately corrected that image. This has not been the case as far as we know. Thanks to the Council of State, the cabinet left the initial starting point "no handling, unless." The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is pleased about this. Of course, careful research should indicate whether dealing with the parent is indicated. That research itself should not further increase the already significant gravity in such cases. We can also imagine that, in the end, the parent was wrongly regarded as a suspect. Denying him or her the right of access is then downright grieving and can cause irreparable damage to the parent-child relationship. It is, in short, balancing under extremely precarious conditions. This raises the question of whether this bill adequately meets the need to be able to deliver tailor-made solutions. The Council of State has also put this fundamental question in so many words. Now, in all cases, an application is made to the court for the determination or refusal of association. A period of two years shall be taken as the basis for declaring the parent inadmissible in his or her application for treatment. A child may at any time have the opportunity to review the decision on access to justice, but it must always take the lead in this respect. I have a single question for the Minister. To what extent can this contribute to further Juridisation? In such a terrible situation, it may not be in the best interests of the child at all. Shouldn't there be careful monitoring of how this new system works in practice? I would like to hear more from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. After a brief suspension, we are going to listen to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr. Chairman. A large number of speakers pointed out that the situation of partner killing, the position of children and the relationship with the remaining partner, is very profound and occurs at the same time only several times a year. But the fact that this is such a far-reaching situation led the Chamber to ask, on the basis of the many poignant personal experiences mentioned by several speakers, for a law that properly regulates the relationship of the child with the parent, as well as the perpetrator of the crime. I agree with the Chamber that, although this is a very special situation, it is at the same time so profound that it requires careful regulation. That is also the reason why the cabinet would have liked to participate in the Chamber's request. This is a careful balance, because the position of the child is crucial. Mrs Van Toorenburg made that very clear: in a way, the child lost two parents. At the same time, the right of parents to deal with children is a fundamental right. The right to have access to justice and to put a question to him is also a fundamental right. It therefore calls for careful consideration and also for careful legal treatment. That's why we're standing here with each other right now. Against that background, I will answer the questions in the order of the questioners. I shall begin with Mr Markuszower. He asked how it is now ensured that the interest and specific wishes of the child always prevail. This is because now the scheme is that a child from 12 years of age is always heard. A child under the age of 12 may be heard if he so requests. It is then up to the judge, having heard the child and all aspects involved, to make the child's best interests balance in his judgment. Mr Markuszower's next question was: how long will it take to reach judgment? The procedure envisaged is that the Children's Protection Board will request provisional custody very quickly, i.e. within 24 hours of receipt of the notification. The court will rule on that immediately. Subsequently, the Children's Protection Council will launch a further investigation, with a maximum period of six weeks. Thus, both a very rapid initial assessment and a more extensive, but still limited, investigation are foreseen. Mr Markuszower asked why a two-year period of inadmissibility has now been chosen. This is about the balance that I mentioned at the beginning. You want to secure the child's position, which is very often traumatized in this case. The procedure will be very burdensome for the child. At the same time, you do not want to sweep aside a parent's fundamental rights of association with the child and access to justice with a hand gesture. The longer you make the period, I will go into Mr El Yassini's proposed amendment in a moment, the more difficult you make it for a judge to impose it, because the judge will make that same balance of interests. He will also look at international treaties. In this consideration and in the interpretation that we can give of international conventions in this area, a period of two years has been chosen. Mr Markuszower asked how to prevent a child from being put under pressure to submit a request. I assume he's referring to the role of the guardian. It is, of course, the judge who ultimately judges, a crucial point in this procedure. The judge will judge on the basis of a signal that a child can also submit. "Happy but," I add. He can judge if this is a signal of his own free will. In doing so, the court may seek the opinion of the Council for the Protection of Children. It is precisely this role of the judge that ensures that there is a guarantee, in case there would have been pressure on the child. Mr Markuszower said that an oral request by the child could not be made, but that is possible. Mr Markuszower also asked how the procedure now works if the child himself wants to contact the parent and how a child is informed about that possibility. A child may in general be accompanied by the guardian, on which possibility he can be pointed out by the Legal Loket. So the child can approach the judge himself, which is called the informal course of justice. It can be verbal, it can be over the phone. In this way it is ensured that the child does indeed have access to justice at a low threshold. I come to Mr El Yassini's amendment to item No. 10, requesting that the time limit for inadmissibility be extended to three years. He also asked for an explanation of international treaties. As Mrs Van Toorenburg said, among other things, it is not the case that, under international treaties and the statements made on that basis, you would say that you can conclude what should come out of them on the basis of algorithms. Law is not an exact science, so you try to make an assessment of the purpose of the treaty and how it will be interpreted in a concrete case. On that basis, I cannot say very harshly that a three-year period would be unreasonable. What I can say is that with this law we are taking an important step forward, as far as I am concerned, even balancing on the borders of different human rights, which I outlined at the beginning. I think it is very important that we can also achieve this step. As you try to stretch the border further, the risk is increasing that what we all want to achieve, I have heard that well from the mouth of all the speakers is not being realized. You end up in the classic situation of "the best of the can, the lid on the nose." In that consideration, I would advise against the amendment. In Mrs Bergkamp's amendment to item No. 9 requires an evaluation after five years. On the basis of this evaluation, it should be considered how this has worked in practice. After that, that question should be asked again. However, my concern with Mr El Yassini's amendment is that it would not be acceptable at all that it would be counterproductive. I would be so sorry to say on that ground that I want to gain experience with the legislative proposal as it stands. I come to Mr Van Nispen's question as to whether the judge will have to make an explicit argument as to why he is imposing a time limit of inadmissibility. That will indeed be the case because it depends on the individual situation. It therefore includes the argument put forward by the court as to why that period of inadmissibility is also imposed in that case. Furthermore, Mr Van Nispen asked whether the Child Protection Council, or the guardian, could also ask the judge to extend that period. The question is whether that is necessary. If the parent doesn't insist on handling, you create a procedure that is still incriminating for the child. I therefore assume that the situation is that a parent requests an extension after the two-year period. A new request will then in fact be made. It's possible. That request will therefore be weighed on new grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you for that answer. In that case, however, the child is already involved in the procedure. As has just been discussed, it is precisely the wish of the Chamber of Appeal to make that period even longer to allow the child to rest. I am concerned that a request from the parent alone, who is in detention, for example, can lead to contact or association with the child and cause a great deal of stress and unrest. Then how can we look for a procedure that is least burdensome for the child? If such a request threatens, even before it causes a great deal of stress and unrest for the child, we could, for example, consider whether the Council for Child Protection or the guardian could extend the time limit of inadmissibility, of course by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u23	If the judge wishes to judge such a request, he will have to weigh up all interests again. Then it makes sense that he involves the child and tries to hear it. That brings you to the complex balance, for which Mr El Yassini also sought a solution in his amendment, whether you should extend the deadline yourself. I have said that, under international treaties, I cannot say that this would not be possible. However, I can see that this increases the risk that judges would become more reluctant, because they will say: as I interpret the Treaties, it is an extreme time limit. I would be sorry if this law, in which we all believe, could not simply enter into practice and be tested. That is why I think that the two-year period is reasonable. Mr Van Nispen is right that this could indeed mean that the procedure would have to be repeated if, after that two-year period, there was a need for the parent who was likely to be imprisoned at that time to ask for reassignment. If you do not want to do so, you are actually creating a longer period in which that parent is denied access to justice and in which he cannot rely on the other human rights in question, namely dealing with the child.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u24	I understand this part of the Minister's reply, but I am concerned that we are looking for a method whereby we do not strictly extend the deadline. Then perhaps we would go too far and risk not realizing what we all want. I am more concerned with the search for a creative method, in which we do justice to all interests and perhaps give the child a somewhat longer period of rest. I don't care if we don't weigh the child's interests. But if such a solution cannot be found in all creativity, then it does indeed end; then that is no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u25	I understand the search, but I would also find it undesirable not to allow a judge to involve the child again after those two years. This is also part of the careful consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u26	The SP indicates a good point. That is exactly what we are trying to do with our amendment. The Minister states that the VVD wants an extension of one year, from two years to three years. Now and technically, that is not exactly what we want. We want to make a link between the withdrawal period and the inadmissible period, with a maximum of three years. In situations where the court finds that the cancellation is for two years, that means that the inadmissible period simply remains two years and is not increased to three years. We are trying to ensure that the child gets rest, just as the SP has just said, and is not taken into the mill of justice. Denying three years is a good time. There really has to be something on the basis of this if the judge is to decide to do so. Then there is something really going on, in which the safety and importance of the child are paramount. Maybe they're even at stake. A judge can say, "I'm denying you a three-year period."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u27	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u28	I have one comment and I think I can make it behind the interrupting microphone. I support the SP line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr El Yassini is right, of course, because he explains his own amendment and says that he makes a link between the transitional period and the period in which access to justice is not discussed. That increases the concern I have that for that reason the judge will become more reluctant, for example to impose a three-year period of no association. This automatically means that no access to justice is granted for three years. A judge can say: that is an automatic coupling that has such a major breach of that other fundamental human right, that I would not have imposed that three years of non-engagement that I would otherwise have imposed, at least now. I would regret that in the end. Once again, I understand Mr El Yassini's and Mr Van Nispen's quest to avoid unnecessary burdens on the child, but every solution must also bear in mind its side effects. I think it's a little too big in this case. I shall return to Mr Van Nispen's questions. He asked me if the protocol is really aimed at dealing with all matters in one session as much as possible. I indicated in my reply to Mr Markuszower's questions that the procedure will often be that a provisional provision is made first, very quickly, and then the time is used to carry out a further investigation. This means that I cannot guarantee that as much as possible will be dealt with in one session. Of course, as much as possible will be avoided if there is no urgent reason for this. However, the combination of fast and careful is so essential that we must leave that space. Mr Van Nispen asked what rights there are for other family members when it comes to dealing with the child. It follows the line that all those who are in a close personal relationship with the child may request treatment. It is obvious that grandparents and grandmothers are present, but in this case too, when a request is raised, the judge will always make a judgment, weighing greatly the child's interest. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether a parent who should not be involved should have information about the child. In principle, such a parent is still entitled to information, but also with regard to access to information, a request may be made to the court to deny it. Mrs Van Toorenburg further asked how to deal with renewed contact with children if suspicion falls away. In the procedure as I described it, a very quick assessment and then a heavier weighting in a six-week period, of course, there is a guarantee to be able to go deeper into the seriousness of the suspicion. In any case, in the case of partner killing under the protocol known to you, intensive guidance will be provided for the child. This intensive guidance is even more important if it turns out that the suspicion was unjustified. After all, another parent has still died and there is a very complex traumatic situation. The guidance will therefore focus on the fact that the remaining parent was wrongly suspected and that the relationship, which was obviously equally severely disturbed, will have to be rebuilt. I come to Mrs Bergkamp's questions. She asked me to address the cases mentioned in the WODC report in which the child's wishes were not addressed. That investigation involved five cases. Nor can we find out from the report exactly what was going on there. So I owe her that answer. Mrs Bergkamp then replied to the question of the two-year period. Is that term ECHR proof? In response to questions from Mr El Yassini and Mr Van Nispen, I have already indicated that one cannot say very black and white that a somewhat longer period would not be allowed at all, but that one cannot say very black and white that two years is always allowed. It is my conviction, however, that within two years we will find a reasonable balance between the rights of the parent and the rights of the child and that that period is, in that sense, also EVMR-proof. Mrs Bergkamp also asked whether the proposal did not infringe the innocence clause. The bill is not intended as a criminal measure. It's a protection measure for the child. The judge will therefore consider whether dealing is contrary to the best interests of the child or is in his best interest. That weighting can therefore be considered even if there is only a suspicion and not a conviction. That underlines how important it is for a judge to do that weighing. That weighting itself is not yet a condemnation; that is another course of action. However, the fact that a judge does that weighting ensures that the question is looked at very carefully "is there a suspicion and is the relationship surviving parent-child such that I can impose this very radical measure?" Mrs Bergkamp also asked about the possibilities of denying treatment if there is no conviction. This bill oversees suspects and convicts of partner killing. If a person is not convicted, the Child Protection Council is not obliged to apply for a transitional arrangement under this bill. Of course, there may be other reasons why a judge denies association. It may be that there was no partner killing, but it was domestic violence or any other reason why a judge comes to the conclusion that there should be no intercourse. However, that is not under this law. Mrs Bergkamp also asked how the two-year period relates to the child's right to periodic evaluation. In reply to Mr Markuszower's question, I indicated that a child can always apply directly to the court for treatment. That period can then be reconsidered. Mrs Bergkamp asked why the bill is not in force if there is no partner killing, but if there is serious violence. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked about this. It considered the situation that the violence and injury were so serious that the partner was no longer able to take care of the child. If this is the case, the Children's Protection Board may ask the court to take action. In the direction of Mrs Bergkamp, I already referred to the question of whether it is only in the case of partner killing that you can deny treatment: no, that can also be done in other situations of violence or domestic violence. Then custody or under surveillance may also be requested. Since this also horrible situation is already foreseen, it is therefore not necessary to regulate it in the law. Again, as this law seeks a careful balance between important fundamental rights, it would not be possible to anchor the inevitable gliding scale of violence, which fortunately did not lead to the end of life, but to other injuries, entirely in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u30	I agree with the Minister and I thank him for the answer. I do have a question. We have now settled it well with a partner killing, because the protocol of action will then start immediately. So the police know what to do, as well as the Council for the Protection of Children, but is there any interest in considering whether the Council for the Protection of Children should ask the judge to take a serious look at this and investigate it? Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u31	I think it would be a good idea for me to comment on Mrs Bergkamp's amendment as well as on how, in recent years, we have dealt with situations of serious violence which did not lead to death but, of course, to a very disturbed relationship between parent and child and also to a very traumatic situation for the child.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u32	I understand from the documents that we are getting an evaluation earlier, namely of the protocol of action. Can this particular point be taken into account in order to see whether the protocol of action could provide a solution, regardless of the fact that you do not need this law now, but rather the protocol, on the basis of which the Council for the Protection of Children can ask the court to intervene? So can this point be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u33	I'd like to admit that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u34	I welcome the commitment given to Mrs Van Toorenburg. I do have a question about inadmissibility. The Minister indicated that there are also possibilities after that, but if a suspect is no longer suspect in the end, in other words: not the perpetrator, I assume that this inadmissibility is immediately removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u35	If there is no other... No, I have to put it right: then he can request that that inadmissibility be terminated. That will generally be promised. I wanted to add a hook in the sense of 'if there are no other situations', but that does not apply to inadmissibility, but to the possibility that the handling is still limited at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u36	If I understand correctly, the person who was suspected and who did not appear to be the culprit must, therefore, make a request to the court to withdraw the inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u37	That makes sense to me. I'm just gonna check... No. You know what? I shall come back to that in the second term, because I see two different nods and this is important for the history of law. I come to Mrs Bergkamp's question about the child's guidance. I have already pointed out to Mrs Van Toorenburg that after partner killing there is careful supervision, as is also laid down in the protocol of action. Mrs Bergkamp also asked why the proposal does not apply to partner killings by other than legal parents. Then it's generally about a step-parent or foster parent. At the moment, I am not aware of any such cases, but I am afraid that there is no way that anything like this will ever happen. In that case, however, there will normally still be natural parents. Because there is a step-parent or foster parent, there is normally a parent, who apparently does not or at least does not have the full parental power at the time. That is why it does not make sense for this particular situation to be regulated in this law. Mrs Bergkamp asked whether it had been considered not to make the law as it now stands, namely that the Council for the Protection of the Child always makes a request to the court, but to formulate it in such a way that the request is made only if the Council for the Protection of the Child so permits. That construction was deliberately not chosen because it creates a complicated situation that gives the child more unrest. The law is now black and white in the sense that the Children's Protection Council always goes to court, after which the judge judges. If you introduce a moment of choice, so that the Council for the Protection of Children can refer the application to the court, so I understood Mrs Bergkamp's question, then an additional uncertainty arises. After all, the child must first live in uncertainty about whether the request goes to the gentleman or the lady who really takes the decision, while then the tension over the decision itself follows. This also complicates the position of the guardian. An important reason for the drafting of this law is that, in current practice, a guardian sometimes finds himself in a complicated position because the question of whether or not a transitional arrangement should be introduced actually comes to him. That puts the guardian back in that complicated position. The law is therefore a bit black and white in this area, precisely in order to create in the procedure the peace that we wanted to create.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u38	My colleague from GroenLinks also asked the question about the potentially unnecessary legalisation of such situations. I spoke to the people at the trauma center at UMC Utrecht. Their fear was that it was also necessary to take a step to court when parties came together: for example, the father said that he would accept it and would not have to deal with his child and everyone, the foster family and the child, agreed. Such a trial can bring its own dynamics. For example, the father and the lawyer say that they want something else. That could lead to more unrest. I understand that I cannot completely change the proposal in this respect, but I would like a response to that. Otherwise, I would like to ask the Minister whether he can take this point into account in the evaluation and whether he can ask the trauma centre to look specifically at this perhaps unnecessary judicialisation in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u39	That seems to me to be a sensible proposal. Mrs Özütok also asked me to continue to monitor carefully, given the complexity of the consideration we are facing. I think it makes sense to include this question in the evaluation: does this not lead to unnecessary legal proceedings? If the parent does not ask for treatment, as Mrs Bergkamp mentioned, there is of course no reason to start this procedure at all. The underlying question, namely whether this does not lead to extra judicialisation, I think is a valid one. It is logical to include this question explicitly in the evaluation. I would like to return to Mrs Bergkamp's question, on which I did not have the answer ready: what is the situation if the suspect is no longer suspect? Then there is a change of circumstances and the defendant must indeed make a request. The changed circumstances make that admissible again. The period of inadmissibility is therefore interrupted, but the application must be lodged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u40	Am I to understand that you are embracing Mrs Bergkamp's amendment? Well, that'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u41	There are more amendments. I would like to make one comment on the amendment relating to the evaluation. I do not know if it is meant to be, but as it has been formulated, it is asked to carry out an evaluation every five years. That's forever. I would actually like to ask Mrs Bergkamp to start with 'in five years'. It will then be possible to assess whether another evaluation is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u42	I think this is a good suggestion from the Minister. I am going to amend the amendment in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u43	In this adapted form, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u44	A question about the situation in which the defendant later turns out not to be a perpetrator and thus there is an acquittal, or changed circumstances. It seems to me a little cumbersome that a request should be made and that it should not be granted automatically. I am not so much concerned with making this request as with the fact that the suspected perpetrator had been deprived of access and authority, and later it turned out that he was not a perpetrator. Then why isn't authority or handling automatically returned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u45	I understand this wish, but with the word 'automatic' we assume that enough people, all by themselves, will remember that all the steps that need to be taken are also taken. I accept people as they are, so I just can't guarantee that all those involved do so at such a time. This is a big, emotional moment: there was false suspicion, there is acquittal. I do not dare to guarantee that all those involved will immediately remember that this period of inadmissibility must be broken before the ex-suspect, and that while the non-suspect himself, of course, is immediately ready to see his child again. I therefore understand this wish, but for this very practical reason I think that we would make a promise in this way, while in practice it will often go wrong if we do not leave the initiative with the former suspect, who has now proved innocent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you for this answer; perhaps my choice of words with "automatic" was not so good. What I fear is that a judge will say that the circumstances have changed greatly, that the child is already grounded in the other family, that the grandparents or guardians are now very attached and that the child is also used to the new situation, so that it might be too incriminating for the child to go back to someone who had considered the child as the perpetrator. The judge could thus decide that the child should not return to his own parent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u47	It is therefore very important to make a difference between inadmissibility and the transitional arrangements. As I said to Mrs Bergkamp, if anyone turns out to be happy but innocent of partner killing, that does not mean that there has been no domestic violence or other reasons for supervision or custody in the family. That's why you can't make that clutch. I believe that Mrs Bergkamp asked how that inadmissibility is going. This is directly linked in law to the partner killing, so it makes sense that it can be terminated. You asked if these things couldn't be done automatically. Although I understand this wish, my answer is that, for practical reasons, a request should be made on the basis of changed circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u48	I would like to ask the Minister about this. If a parent of such an act is acquitted, would it not be better, instead of having a request to delete the inadmissibility period, to apply for a full transitional arrangement with the child? According to the law, the parent is no longer covered by this specific legislative amendment. This means that an application may be made immediately and that, on the basis of the legal text we are debating at the moment, the judge will check whether or not this request is admissible. So my question is: is it true that a request for that inadmissibility should be made, or should a parent not make an application for access earlier, because there is a change in the situation and the inadmissibility period automatically lapses because the parent is no longer a suspected or convicted offender?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u49	This is such a specific situation that I would like to return to it in writing. I understand the background to this question. We all hope that this happens, so that people turn out to be innocent, but for legal practice this requires a precise explanation. That is why I shall return to this in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u50	Perhaps the Minister should take up the big poignant point, namely that a child should not be forced to go to a TB institution or prison, so that this does not happen anymore. After all, if someone turns out not to be the culprit, he is no longer in the TBs institution or in prison. So we should not make it any bigger than it is, but at the same time I should like to ask the Minister whether, if he does respond in writing, the Children's Protection Council itself could not have a role in this by indicating that the situation is no longer the same and that the requests are therefore withdrawn. Can that be included in the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u51	I will. By the way, we are trying to imagine situations that can be very complicated, but people can still be in that institution for another reason. In criminal law, you may want to deal with families who do not fully meet the model family, in which father goes to work at 7:30 in the morning with his lunch box. There are relatively more complex situations. That is exactly why I would like to return to this situation in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you. I think it is very good that the Minister should return to this in writing. I assume that this will be for the votes. Can he also say that this must of course be done as soon as possible? There has to be some kind of emergency procedure. It can't be that you have to go through a whole trial with the judge again that takes a very long time. I would find that really unacceptable. I hope that the Minister can take this point into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yes. I'll take the lead time in the letter. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u54	I would like to hear from you what you are doing with the amendment to item No. 9 by Mrs Bergkamp on the special curator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u55	That is very sharp and rightly so! This amendment indicates that a special curator must always be appointed. The appointment of a curator is a possibility that the judge now has; that is possible. By obliging that, you actually create complexity, even where it wouldn't be necessary. I believe that Mrs Bergkamp's concern is that we should not make things too complicated. I agree with her that a curator may be needed, but a judge can already decide to do so. However, imposing that standard makes a situation that is apparently so clear that a judge who doesn't consider it necessary suddenly a more complicated situation. That is why I would not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u56	I would like to comment a little more on that. We have said a few times that this is a very exceptional situation: the child does not really have a home front anymore, father is often in prison and mother is no longer alive. Then there's all kinds of family members involved in trauma processing. A child like that is often stuck in the middle. The guardian is executive, the Council is consultative and the children's judge has to take a decision. In passing, we have indicated in the debate that there must be an informal access to justice for the child. But when you're 6, 8 or 12, you're in a family that might say, "You're not going to your father," when you might want to, you have to come from a good house to find against that will in that informal courtroom. I sincerely believe that in such situations a child needs a special curator from the start of the process. It's not a lot of situations. What Minister Blok says is true: in situations where there is a conflict, the children's court may decide to do so. In situations like this you can say that it is such a difficult and unique situation, that the child's voice must be heard and interpreted by a special curator, who is also specialised in it. So I ask the Minister to feel this for a moment. Hopefully, on the basis of my speech, he will be able to give us some nuances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mrs Bergkamp rightly points out that these are very complex and sensitive situations in which a child is always in a complex lack of conscience. At the same time, I note that the judges who assess these cases are children's judges, i.e. specialised judges. They are therefore well aware that the issues they are being presented are also in the context mentioned by Mrs Bergkamp. Then it is an assessment of the ability of judges to properly assess whether a curator has added value in that situation. My estimate is that a judge who can and wants to make judgment is good. Mrs Bergkamp is a little more concerned about that. All things considered, I think it's just too far to say: it should always be, even if that specialized judge says it is not necessary in a particular case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u58	I do have concerns about it. When it comes to such a specific situation, I think that you should also be open minded about changes that strengthen the child's position. The research of the Kinderombudsman about the special curator states that very often it is not considered. It is really not the case that it has come down that a special curator can occupy an important position. So that's what my concerns are about, as well as the randomness. This is a situation that we can hardly imagine, but you will be 6, 8 or 12 years old and will be raised in a family and feel that pressure, and you will have to find that informal right entrance. In the report of the Kinderombudsman we have also read that guardians are sometimes not entirely objective in it either. It's just a very emotional situation. I therefore welcome the fact that the child is entitled to a special curator by default. I'm hearing the Minister's opinion now. It is what it is. I hope that my colleagues will be able to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u59	I understand Mrs Bergkamp's concern. I would also like to offer her that this evaluation also includes the question of when to use a curator and whether this might not be enough, but a law is very unbearable. If the House here accepts the amendment, which is its right, then then there is no choice either. There's a curator by default. I think that, also on the basis of the signals that Mrs Bergkamp rightly refers to, is a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u60	I share Mrs Bergkamp's concerns and I do not understand the Minister's consideration of this issue. Although every child this happens to be one too many, they are about 36 children per year and 14 cases per year. So my question is: why not? The minister says it's getting more complex, but I don't really see why it's complex. These judges are children's judges and are very professional, but they have a lot of cases every year, around 30,000. The average term of such a judge's term of office is less than 30 minutes. It is the experience of many that, on the basis of the documents submitted, these judges often rule, with the term of office often only 15 minutes. I believe that such a curator at that preparatory stage can indeed play a huge added role in particular the rights of the child and not so much the rights of the guardian or the opinion of the Council for the Protection of Children. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mr Markuszower asks why I think it is becoming more complex. A number of speakers have already mentioned the fact that this legislative proposal, to a certain extent, already provides for further judicialisation and have asked me to pay particular attention to this in the evaluation. Against this background, a mandatory participant is now being introduced within this complex process. With this proposal it becomes a mandatory participant; optionally he is already there. There's always been three players, besides the kid himself. First of all, there's the guardian. Mrs Bergkamp is undoubtedly right to say that this role is varied, but there is a guardian with the task of defending the child's interests. Secondly, there is the Children's Protection Council, which is examining the situation. Thirdly, there is the children's court. Now a fourth player is brought into the field. This happens with the best intentions, but the situation becomes really more complex because participation of the fourth player is mandatory. All things considered, I am not saying that it is a nonsensical or unworkable proposal, but I do not think it is right to impose it in the law. I think it makes sense to look at this in the evaluation: how often is the figure of the special curator used and how does it work in practice? I think that is wise, also given the way in which I want to deal with this law at all. I have the impression that I have many of you in that consideration. It's a big step, though. Let us now gain experience with this law in the first few years and also for this part first check whether it is problematic in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u62	The alternative is, of course, a delay in the process, because if the children's court has to decide that a curator is necessary, it will result in delay. In that case, the complexity of the Minister is still present, with the result that the harrowing situation continues longer for the child. All things considered, I think Mrs Bergkamp's amendment is very sensible. I hope the Minister doesn't want to be shunned after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u63	I do not follow Mr Markuszower. He says there's always a delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u64	Of course, there is a delay when the children's court has the case in hand and says: it is so complex that I appoint a curator. That can happen, as the Minister himself says. That's an option. This leads to delays, because then the whole case will be suspended and the curator will have to look into the best interests of the child. Then we'll be two, six or eight weeks away. That's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u65	Okay, but if the amendment is adopted, the delay will always be there in another way, because the curator will fill in his or her role and ask for time and attention for it. This is happening in a different way than in the situation Mr Markuszower has outlined, but it requires time and attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u66	I'm gonna try again, because I don't quite understand. In a complicated situation with complicated, conflicting conversations, even an adult can take a confidant because the pressure of such a conversation is very high. That's already been arranged in several ways. That's very common. How is this settled in a child's situation? If the court hearing and the whole preparation of it take place and all professionals are working on the matter from their own perspective and professionalism, who will defend the best interests of the child and who will assist the child? I have not been able to understand that correctly, not even from the Minister's words. That's all I care about. Who represents the child? Is that the child's confidant himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u67	That's the guardian now. If the judge has reason to doubt, he can appoint a curator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u68	You say "can." So what is the objection to having it arranged in front, so that a curator is self-evident, does not need to be applied for and does not need to be appointed by the judge? I understand the Minister thinks it's important, because he says the judge can appoint a curator. Then why shouldn't we settle it out front, assuming it's such a complicated situation for the child? Then we can take care of it preventively, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u69	In doing so, the Chamber sits on the judge's seat, by stating: we do not think that the judge makes a proper assessment in such a case, and we therefore require the judge to always appoint a curator. That is the right of the legislator, but it is a bit unfriendly to that child justice. In practice it means that there is always a fourth player on the field. It will undoubtedly fulfil its role seriously, but as a result there is a delay in this matter, I have just spoken with Mr Markuszower in every procedure, not only in those cases where the child court judges: here the curator is really needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u70	A short question, not to tease. Does the Minister consider it more important to defend the child's interests, or to be friendly towards the judge? My group makes the assessment that we are still looking at the best interests of the child. It shouldn't matter to all of us here whether or not the judge is a little offended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u71	I do not think that is a very relevant contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u72	The Minister's only argument was that it was not so friendly towards the judge and that the Chamber would sit on the judge's seat. No, the Chamber wants, if this is adopted, to better guarantee the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr Markuszower has made a fine speech so far, but now he says that I have only put forward one argument. That's not right. I have made a long argument with a large number of considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u74	Thank you. That was the first term. We'll continue with the second term immediately. Mr Markuszower waived his speaking time. I call Mr El Yassini of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I will then go into the amendment that the VVD is going to table. We are still looking, precisely because of the nuance and the European Convention on Human Rights, at the link between denial and inadmissibility. We shall limit it to three years in our amendment. This means that this situation only changes for cancellations of two years or more up to a maximum of three years. We are tabling that amendment and we are counting on the support of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. We have had an extensive and good debate on an important law which is trying to make a horrible problem a little less painful. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, in the sense that there is always a need to justify why a judge chooses a certain period of time. The conclusion of the SP is that in our search for the possibilities to reduce the burden on the child, possibly even after those two years, we do not end up getting much further. I understand the Minister's answer that the possible extension of borders, for example the extension of the deadline, as the VVD wants, or the possibility, which I carefully suggested, that you extend the deadline of the Council for the Protection of Children, also entails disadvantages and risks. I accept that, because I absolutely do not want this important law in the First Chamber or at the European Court of Human Rights to cause problems. It seems to me right that we should gain experience with the law and then evaluate it. I am going to advise my group not to agree to the longer term for denying access to justice, but, of course, to vote wholeheartedly in favour of this important law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u77	I thank the Minister for answering all the questions. We are taking an important step today, because we are placing the child more at the centre. We better protect the child in a situation where there has been a complete drama. Let us be clear that the CDA will not support the amendment that the VVD wants to table anyway because we see great risks in it. Of course, we can look at this in the context of the evaluation. I will present Mrs Bergkamp's amendment to the evaluation clause with a positive opinion to my group. I think it is right that we should properly evaluate every far-reaching law and see if things can be improved. I do have a hesitation about the special curator. It lies in the fact that I do see that we must always be careful with the enormous judicialisation. That is what we now feel compelled to do. We have been encouraged to do so, and we have done so today. However, the question arises as to whether the court should always be obliged to actually appoint that particular curator. Experience has shown that grandparents are very well able to see what the interests of children are. They have not been the ones who joined the Chamber for nothing. So I do not know whether it should necessarily be the case that a child's judge appoints a special curator, because then there will be a partner with whom the grandparents will have to consult, who will take up a position which may not be necessary in an exceptional situation. If the Chamber decides that it will probably be the case often, we are already taking a very important step. I have sufficient confidence in the children's judges not to do so in special situations where there is no need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u78	I understand some of Mrs Van Toorenburg's considerations, but I really do think differently about one remark. Mrs Van Toorenburg says that grandparents are always best placed to assess the best interests of the child, but I am looking at the casuistics. Mrs Van Toorenburg has a history in this file. She has spoken to many people; I have a great deal of respect for that. You can also see that they have their own feelings, which they sometimes project on the child. I don't blame them at all, because it's a horrible situation. That is why I propose to Mrs Van Toorenburg the following. We can just try it together with that particular curator, because at the moment there is not really a party representing the child objectively. We can all think that, but in practice we see that it is often different. That is why I would ask Mrs Van Toorenburg to think again about making the special curator compulsory in this unique situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u79	Of course I'm gonna think about it. When we have the group discussion, we will take a final decision on this. For the time being, I have to say that I am inclined to give a negative opinion to my group. I see, however, that judges also know that the question is whether everyone is sufficiently aware of the importance of the child. The judge knows that he has the instrument, that of designating a special curator, but that it should not necessarily be. That's what it's in for me. There will be situations where family members are also very well able to make it safe, protected and at ease for a child and to provide rest. I wonder whether it would be in the best interest of the child to add another person who is particularly interested in the child's interests. If necessary, the judge will actually designate that person.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u80	That seems pretty clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u81	I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u82	We are now going to listen to Mrs Bergkamp from the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u83	Chairman. I thank the Minister for his contribution. He has indicated that it is a question of balancing between the different rights. I think that the Minister has explained it very well and has struck a kind of balance between all the interests that are at stake. I congratulate the Minister on his speech in this debate. I think he hit the right tone. It's very difficult, but I think it's good that the bill has been amended as we discuss it. I am also pleased with the approval of the Minister for Evaluation after five years. He has promised to include a number of elements specifically, for example the fear of judicialisation. I thank the Minister for that. We have had the opportunity to debate the special curator. Once again, with all these parties, there are certainly a number of things that are missed. That seems to me to be very serious and then it is very nice if at least a special curator comes along from the beginning. I have one more question about the stepparent. The Minister said: I cannot quite imagine such situations, because often there is another parent. Of course you don't have to. It may also be that the biological parent is no longer alive or there may be one parent. I would ask the Minister to respond a little more in detail. I am also very happy that he will come back in writing to the question of what happens if you are no longer a perpetrator and what about that inadmissibility of two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u84	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Özütok of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for dealing with this bill. In his speech he clearly shows and hears that he has really thought things through, in search of balance and balance. He has put forward a good bill to us. Thanks and compliments for that. I welcome the Minister's commitment to include further judicialisation in the monitoring and to carry out the evaluation. If Mrs Bergkamp's amendment is tabled, we will be co-signatory of it. As far as the curator and the interests of the child are concerned, I do differ somewhat from the minister. I believe that, in such a situation, a guardian can of course take into account the interests of a child, but my group is in favour of ensuring that the child's interests are well protected. I will give my group a positive opinion on Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u86	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister for a final word. There are no motions for resolutions, but there is still a question from Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr. Chairman. I did not quite convince Mr El Yassini with my opinion on the amendment. Once again, for me, the balance is how we can ensure as much as possible that this law can also be applied in practice. That is why I have reached my verdict. Mr Van Nispen shares that view. Mrs Van Toorenburg also supports that line. In my opinion, she rightly pointed to the role that grandparents will often play. She added that as an additional argument not to become an always mandatory curator. I thank Mrs Bergkamp, of course, for her kind words. I understand that she will put her amendment to the vote, so I await the opinion of the Chamber. She did ask me to go into the stepparent's position again. Two things play out for me. As I said, in practice there are no cases in which step parents have played a role. There are, however, scenarios, as Mrs Bergkamp said, in which stepparents may be present in a situation where there are or are not parents. If the parents are still there, there may be different sizes of transitional arrangements. Even then, you would have to make a complicated framework in the law. With that, you would no longer do justice to the complex practice. In such cases, it is inevitable that this possibility will always remain open, but that this law will not be applied to it. Indeed, in the short term, I will inform the Chamber of the position of the defendant who was found to be wrongly suspect on further assessment. Mrs Bergkamp was right to point that out. Mrs Özütok also spoke kind words. I will pass it on to the officials who did the underlying work. I already gave an opinion on Mrs Bergkamp's amendment. That will be evident in the votes. I hope to have answered all the remaining questions once I have sent the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-3.u88	On Tuesday we shall vote on the law and the amendments. One amendment has been amended. I thank the Minister for his presence today.
