ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Youth protectors are heroes. They protect the most vulnerable children, who grow up in an unsafe environment with parents who are in deep trouble or even in the criminal circuit. More and more youth protectors face aggression, intimidation and violence from parents. I find it terrible that youth protectors are so threatened that they can't do their job anymore. More and more specialized teams should be deployed that do their job anonymously to protect children in extremely unsafe situations. Youth protectors deserve our protection in carrying out their important task, as do all people in public jobs. Teachers, cops and nurses deserve all the appreciation and respect so they can do their important work. That's why I have the following questions. How is the Secretary of State going to guarantee that youth protectors can do their job safely? How does the Secretary of State assess his own proposal to allow youth protectors themselves to make the decision on the under-supervision rather than having an independent judge do so? Is the Secretary of State not afraid that this will make the work of youth protectors even more complicated and face even more aggression, threat and intimidation? What is the Secretary of State going to do for these hard workers in youth protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. The message to which Mrs Ypma refers is, of course, very worrying. It is just as good to indicate the increase in numbers. Unfortunately, because it prevents youth protectors from being threatened, we have the National Expertise Team Youth Protection. The number of calls has indeed increased. This also has to do with the fact that in 2016 provinces such as Friesland and Limburg also called on this team to better protect the youth protectors in more difficult cases. Previously it was mainly North Brabant and the big cities in the Randstad that did so. It is good that the team gets more familiar and is used more often, because that makes it safer, but it is of course ridiculous that it is necessary at all. So it's good that we have it, but it's ridiculous that it's necessary. It's not normal for you to attack people who are trying to protect your children or that young people themselves attack their protectors because they don't agree with what's happening. That's outrageous. It is to be commended that the youth defenders are doing everything they can to continue their work. It's a good thing we have the National Youth Protection Expertise Team. How can we make sure it's safe? That's why we have that team. You can do your job with more effort. So you'll be protected. The awareness of the team should lead to the regular youth protection work being done where it can and the team being deployed where necessary, so that the youth protectors are physically protected. I have indeed made a proposal to have the decisions taken by the Children's Protection Board and to have the judge look at them only on appeal. In this particular case, it will not matter very much, I think, because in both scenarios it is not the youth protector who makes the decision. Either that is done by the judge or by the Children's Protection Board. Apart from this discussion, the Chamber adopted the Klein motion in the course of its examination of the budget, in which the government is urged not to go through with it. We will, of course, take this motion seriously into account in the further development of our plans for the Council for the Protection of the Child and its decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	I say about that bill: just don't get started, because there is no support for it in the House of Representatives. I'll give that to the Secretary of State again. Where can the youth protectors dealing with aggression and violence and intimidation by parents go for help and support? How does the Secretary of State assess the fact that there has been a fivefold increase in the number of cases dealt with by the National Expertise Team Youth Protection? Is the LET-JB able to cope with the increasing demand or are additional teams appointed? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that employees can always be deployed immediately in unsafe situations and that no child has to wait until it can be helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	The employer himself is the primary responsibility for the safety of the employees. This is why a risk analysis is always carried out by the family guardian in the event of a possible unsafe situation. Then it is about the safety of the child and the safety of the youth protector. An additional colleague can then be employed or additional protection offered. The National Expertise Team can also be used if it is really a very difficult case. That is where the first responsibility lies. There are also possibilities to make a protected declaration, anonymously and at the location of the institution, so that you cannot trace which youth protector has rightly reported this terrible treatment. Indeed, the number of cases of the National Expertise Team has grown steadily, from 10 in the first year to 47 cases in 2016. This has mainly to do with the broader knowledge of the team. More and more institutions and municipalities make use of it and appeal to it. There is therefore not necessarily an increase in the number of incidents of violence, but an increase in the appeal to this team. Therefore, an expansion of this team is foreseen for 2017, so that it can cope with the additional work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	I believe that we should always take the interests of children first and ensure that we protect these hard workers in the protection of young people from the Empire. Thank you very much for the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	It is quite right that attention should be paid to this, because it is, of course, scandalous that those who help children who are in an unsafe situation should be so threatened and treated. However, my question is another one, given the answers already given. Are these people being dealt with and brought to justice, in cooperation between the youth protectors, the organisations, the employers, the police and the National Expertise Team? Surely it can't be that we set up special teams to provide protection, but that the perpetrators go free because of their behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	Of course, the teams aren't meant to be used only if someone goes over the line. Such a team is used as a precaution when you expect a risky situation to prevent suffering. In addition, that behavior must be punished. That is why we make it easier for people to press charges in every way, without having to fear that it will lead to even more wrong treatment and violence. Of course, we can deal with such a report and impose penalties on parents, if necessary, or on young people who have crossed the line themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	Can the Secretary of State indicate how many of the cases in which this takes place are actually being prosecuted? A team like that will incur additional costs. Are those charges being recovered from the perpetrators? That, too, seems to me to be a point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	In any case, I agree with the reasoning that it makes sense to recover the costs and not let society take the fall for them. I am a little reluctant to say yes, because I know that it may be difficult in legal terms. On this point and on how often it happens, let me inform the Chamber by letter. Then we can see exactly what is going on, because in the current situation the municipalities are responsible. They're gonna have to get the team on board, too. We'll take the municipalities to see if those numbers can be retrieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	Would this be possible for the general consultation of youth aid at the end of February?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	That's a question I'm passing on to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yeah, we'll do our best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	That is a vague undertaking, but Mrs van der Burg is satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	I think it is right for us as a Chamber to express how terrible it is to be threatened and intimidated in the performance of your work. So I can be brief about that: it is important to throw that far away from us. I myself contacted Childcare Netherlands to ask if they need help from politics. Are there any bottlenecks? They indicate that they've arranged it very well with those special teams. Does the Secretary of State recognize that image? Could we perhaps also learn from other sectors to ensure that people can perform their work safely?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	I do recognize that. We can, of course, look at other sectors, but for this particular sector we have this particular solution. In other cases you can act faster together with the strong arm of the law, but in that context it is quite difficult to accompany children. That's why I think this team is working very well. Where this is really necessary, the police must be able to provide assistance, but I recognise the image that this approach is working and that it is wanted to be used throughout the country. It helps, therefore, if the public awareness of this is growing and if more municipalities and institutions know that this possibility exists and that they can make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	Of course, youth protectors and youth aid workers must be protected. During my recent work visit to Youth Protection Amsterdam, attention was also paid to this. However, in replying to the Secretary of State, I do not see the basis on which this violence is brought about at all. Are there perhaps not too many young people being evicted too quickly now and then, creating a source of aggression, both among young people and parents? Should not the cause of violence be tackled? If young people are rightly placed out of their homes, you must provide protection. That makes sense, but I do miss this aspect in answering Mrs Ypma's questions. Why don't we look at the cause? How can we remove them and prevent young people or parents from becoming violent? This is particularly true in parents who feel powerless against a system in which their child is taken away from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u17	I do not rule out the possibility that frustration may be at the root of this type of violence, but I do not want to evoke the idea that all these incidents of violence are not so much a result of the use of violence. I think you have to behave at all times, even if you disagree. We have a rule of law. There's no randomness. You have legitimate, nonviolent ways of pleading your case if you disagree. I do not want to say that in all cases where violence is committed, powerlessness or frustration is the source. That will play a role, but we also see cases where those who need protection do not agree with it because they have chosen the criminal path at a young age. They actually find that attractive. That is why they use violence against those who are right to protect them for the rest of their lives, even though they have not yet figured it out, and to bring them on the right path. I therefore understand Mr Klein's question, but would like to be careful not to pretend that youth protection itself is the cause of violence against youth protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u18	Youth protection itself will never be the cause. That is why a motion was tabled at the time to ensure that this is always done through the Council for the Protection of Children and ultimately through the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u19	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u20	The question is whether the Secretary of State wants to analyse whether powerlessness and frustration are indeed a source that we can remove, so that violence does not have to occur at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u21	I recognize that that can play a part. It's a difficult situation. If parents were aware that they put their child in danger, they might change their behavior so that it was no longer in danger. You often see that the parents themselves do not believe that they put their children in danger, but that they do. Then you're gonna have to have a measure like removal. That will indeed bring with it frustration. We are not taking such a measure lightly, but I do not think that frustration can be removed. As a youth protector you will always have the tension that you sometimes have to help against will and thanks or against the will of parents in someone, because otherwise you would not need that measure. I recognize the phenomenon, but I don't see how you can keep doing this job without having this tension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-5.u22	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of Question Time.
