ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Drivers' threats directly affect the functioning of our rule of law. If that means that aldermen and mayors can no longer work, or even more so, if they even have to leave the country, that is absolutely shocking. The mixing of upper and lower worlds is still increasing in the Netherlands and that is a big problem. We see that even council members have direct involvement in organised criminal activities or that supervisors are considered not to supervise in certain areas because that is undesirable. It's a very bad case. Of course, first and foremost for the person who happens to it, but it also shows, to some extent, our impotence in combating this mix-up and undermining, and the impotence of the police and the judiciary to act effectively against it. That is why I am asking the Minister the following questions. I'll begin with the threat to the deputy mayor of Emmen. What's the status of the criminal investigation? Any suspects in sight or in custody yet? Do police and justice generally have sufficient capacity to address and prevent threats to drivers? Can they pay sufficient attention to this? The Aldermen's Association is asking for swift law, precisely in order to be able to deal with these specific cases properly. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Following another incident, I would like to hear what additional measures he intends to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mrs Kuik that not only threats are terrible, but that threats to drivers who have to make difficult decisions in the public interest are totally unacceptable. Those directors should then be able to count on the government and all available instruments to support them, especially if they are threatened. I, too, was shocked when I heard a little earlier than the average newspaper reader,....... that Deputy Mayor Arends van Emmen had to move to another address for his own safety for a while. Moreover, I have great respect for the decision he made in the context of public security in Emmen, which is an important part of his work. Mrs Kuik now points out that organised crime not only in Emmen, but also in other places in the country is trying to influence public administration along all kinds of routes and that this is indeed very undesirable. She therefore asks me first of all whether I can provide information on the criminal investigation into the events in Emmen. I understand the question, but does Mrs Kuik also understand that I cannot answer that question because, in the interests of the investigation, the Public Prosecutor never informs about what she knows and how far she is before she brings a case to court? The state's attorney's office is on top of this, but he won't announce anything until she sees reason to. Mrs Kuik's second question is whether the police and the Public Prosecutor have sufficient capacity. That is an understandable, but also a recurring question. The answer to this is that what needs to be done can be done, but of course there is always a great desire for the responsible minister, the Chamber, the police and the Public Prosecutor to be able to do more. Then you come to the classic political question where you get the money from. Fortunately, extra room for police and justice has been made available within my budget, which has been approved by the Chamber, and within these possibilities we are doing everything we can. Ms Kuiken also asked about the suggestion of the chairman of the Aldermen's Association to apply swift law when there is a threat to directors. That possibility exists. If a case lends itself to it, then where possible, rapid law will be applied, but this is not always the right solution. Eventually, you want the bad guys to be convicted. Only when there is a very simple case in the legal sense, which can be proved, can the right to that right be exercised as quickly as possible. But where that can be done, it is applied. Mrs Kuik also asked if I am prepared to take additional measures. At the moment, a case is pending in which the Public Prosecutor's Office requests that the Bandidos motorcycle gang be banned. The court will judge this this fall. I have legislation prepared for my ministry that allows for a faster route; the type of legislation that Mrs Kuik herself wants to go to, I thought. We would be happy to support Mrs. Kuik in her initiatives. I know that I cannot, as a outgoing minister, submit far-reaching legislation to the Chamber, so I will not, but I can, of course, prepare laws. We are preparing legislation that allows a ban on criminal motorcycle gangs. I hope that a missionary minister will present it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister says it strikingly: we are doing everything we can, but people feel that this is not enough, also because we see that the interwovenness of the underworld and the upper world is actually getting bigger. In recent times, I've been talking to people who are good at undermining. Those discussions showed that they have more and more indications that in the public domain and in the public administration, this mix-up is becoming more and more intense. The supervisors say they don't know why they're being instructed not to supervise when they know something's going on. We then have suspicions, but they are not yet hard, that there is still mixing. I repeat what else we can do. However, I am pleased that the Minister intends to proceed with a ban, following repeated calls from my group and from other groups to do something against criminal motorcycle clubs. Indeed, I am already preparing an initiative proposal. I would like to work with the Minister because the formation may take a long time, you never know, and then the Chamber will be done with it. I think there are more people who would like to support this initiative wholeheartedly. I think this is important, because this is not the only example. In Echt-Susteren we also saw that the mayor wanted to close a house, which after an explosion was a danger to the whole neighborhood, but it was flogged back by the highest court. We really need additional legislation and case law. I'd like another response to the last question. A ban on motor clubs is nice, but legislative processes always take a long time. I think we should look at what else we can do to prevent undermining and what we can do specifically to protect those drivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have spoken a number of times in the Chamber about what else we do in dealing with organised crime. I have sent several reports to the Chamber on this matter. In my missionary role, I have announced that I will prepare legislation on the exchange of information between all relevant services, i.e. municipalities, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Police and the Tax Administration. The route is also here that a outgoing cabinet is not supposed to submit far-reaching legislation to the Chamber, but it can make preparations. I will inform the Chamber before the summer of what those preparations have achieved. Then I come to the protection of directors, such as mayors and aldermen. If necessary, they can appeal to all the measures we can take to protect public opinion. The Public Prosecutor's Office and, where necessary, the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security (NCTV) assess these matters. In addition, the Home Affairs colleague, in consultation with the drivers, sent a whole package of measures to the Chamber, covering not only the hard security side but also the training and resilience of drivers and the provision of psychosocial assistance, as this obviously does not put the person himself, but also his family and friends in cold clothes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you. Very briefly, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr President, I shall conclude very briefly. I thank the Minister for his reply. I would like the Chamber to have another wide-ranging debate on the whole subject of undermining, including the protection of drivers. This subject is too important and if we are not careful, it slips out of our fingers. We must avoid that at all times. We are still in the rule of law here, not in a criminal free state.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u7	A fair question from Mrs Kikken about the protection of members of our public administration. They deserve that, too. That brings me to the next question. I understand that the Minister cannot specifically dive into this case, but I understand from the media that this alderman, deputy mayor, has been transferred abroad in order to be protected there. You have to if you have to. Is it not possible, however, to provide protection on our own territory? Let's face it, an alderman or mayor doesn't want anything but his own congregation. Isn't it horrible to find that such a person with that desire, that ambition, is being transferred abroad? That really is the end of effective public administration in this country. I wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u8	Mr Van Oosten is right to say that it is horrible for such a measure to be taken. It's horrible for the person himself and for the family. It is horrible for public administration and the rule of law. You don't want this to happen and this to be necessary. Such a decision takes place only after careful consideration. Mr Van Oosten probably knows that threatening directors of the European Parliament is also a matter for many Members of Parliament. Unfortunately, this is something that can be done in part by the Internet rather easily. Such a decision is not made after the first rude e-mail. If there is a serious signal, that means that safety is really at stake. Security may be at stake in such a way that foreign countries are a safer option than domestic ones. All in all, that was the case here, but once again, it is an extreme measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u9	I am glad that I have heard the Minister say that he is in the process of preparing legislation. That would have been my question. I was writing, too. Public administration simply needs to be protected from criminal motorcycle gangs and threats. Let's assume it came from this angle in this situation. The Minister is right to talk about a great many measures that he and his colleague in the Interior and Kingdom Relations are taking. Is the road known to aldermen and councilmen? It turns out that very few people report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u10	These measures have been developed in cooperation with the associations of local directors to ensure that these measures meet their needs and become known. Of course, drivers have more on their heads, especially if they do this part-time, like city council members. However, we are doing everything we can, for example by providing psychosocial assistance. This allows you to create a help function to make the assistance as accessible as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u11	I hear the Minister say a lot of sensible things, but I am still not comfortable with the fact that a Dutch authority has to go abroad for his safety in order to get protection there. Is it not a weakness that we are unable to offer protection in our own country? Shouldn't we be questioning the freedom of movement for benefactors? Is there any lessons to be learned from it? How can we prevent such extreme measures from being applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u12	I have already indicated that I find it extremely regrettable that this should happen, but I would attack reality by suggesting that we can rule out any need for it. Even if we made more resources available, financially or legally, history unfortunately learns that crime cannot be eradicated and that, unfortunately, a very small proportion of people, but still, are prepared to use the most extreme methods, including threats or physical violence, to achieve their own goals. So yes, I am very uncomfortable here and I have already indicated that I am preparing a number of additional measures, but I am afraid that the reality is that you can never completely rule out saying that in the interests of security we need to put you at an unknown address.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u13	I understand the Minister's answers and I also understand that there can always be individual cases where there is no alternative. As far as I am concerned, the starting point should be that someone in the Netherlands should be protected and can continue to hold office there. I think this is the most powerful signal you can give. I do have the following specific question. A financial safety net was set up in 2016. Is that enough to honor that premise? Can people in principle be protected in the Netherlands if they so wish and if that is possible in that case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr Grothuizen rightly points to the financial safety net. This is one of the measures taken in cooperation with the Interior. At the moment, finance is not the problem, but I do see a problem with regard to the legal possibilities of tackling criminal gangs and sharing information, both of which are non-financial problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yet it is the reverse world that if a criminal threatens an alderman, that alderman must flee the country. Does the Minister agree that this is unacceptable? Gangs want to run the streets and the neighborhood. Then it's gonna be you lying down with a gang like that, when the driver has to leave town. If someone has to leave the country, then there must also be a concrete indication, so it must also be clear which network, which people are in the picture. Then where's the problem with him? The minister says it's not in money. So where is the problem? How can we prevent it? Is it legal or is it the exchange of information? What exactly is the problem whereby our aldermen, for God's sake, must be expelled from the country for criminals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr Van Raak shows the great annoyance that we all feel in this Chamber, but I assume he agrees with me that if there is a serious threat that cannot be removed in any way at the time, then the safety of the threatened driver is paramount. That was also the consideration here. How can we do more? I have already outlined a number of routes for which I am very motivated. I have already indicated that I cannot submit the law to you, but that I can take all the preparatory measures. I have given you two examples, on top of other steps that have already been taken. However, I would also remind Mr Van Raak of the point I made towards Mr Van der Staaij. With all the efforts of police officers, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the security services, we cannot guarantee that we can completely prevent people from getting to safety at times. That would be an unrealistic representation of business. However, we can agree with each other so that, where additional measures are needed, this is the legislation I mentioned, which is to be adopted quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u17	We've been asking for a ban on those motorcycle clubs for so long. I don't quite understand why we can't go to the Chamber now. I understand the outgoing status of the cabinet, but organized crime doesn't have it. I also do not understand why we are talking about speedy justice here. In the case of rapid justice, it is a sentence of up to one year. If you threaten aldermen in this way, you should never get away with such a low sentence. My question is a little more specific, by the way. The task force in Brabant is now trying to take really big steps. The cabinet has also provided extra money. We still have more to talk about, but the debate is still going on. But is there also enough rural roll-out to see what we can learn a bit from Brabant, Zeeland and Emmen and surroundings?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-2.u18	When it comes to what a outgoing cabinet deals with or doesn't deal with, the Chamber is in the lead. And when it comes to the pace of formation, the Chamber is also in the lead. I've been involved. You know all about that. As far as the application of rapid law is concerned, I have just made the point that this can be used, but that this is not always the most sensible route. Mrs Van Toorenburg talks about sharing the lessons learned. Regionally, there are the RIECs, the Regional Information and Expertise Centres, in which the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, municipalities and other parties share information on organised crime and on the measures taken by each of the parties. At national level, there is a dome. That is the National Information and Expertise Centre, where also those national lessons are shared. I've been at a meeting like this recently. We shall inform the Chamber accordingly with great regularity. The presence at that meeting was also the reason for me to announce a while ago that I wanted to prepare legislation on this information sharing. This is now a wish that is typical of the regional consultations. It is said that we know many things, that privacy legislation does not allow us to share everything, but we believe that this is really necessary in the context of the fight against organised crime. So that's what we'll get back to.
