ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u1	Seven speakers have signed up for this debate. I welcome the Minister of Security and Justice. The first speaker was Mr Van Nispen, who spoke on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. For a long time now, the SP has been drawing attention to the problems at the Dutch Forensic Institute (NFI). Three successive ministers told us that it was not so bad. However, a serious picture emerges from the research into the organizational and management culture that the works council has forced to do. There's bad cooperation. There is a huge gap between the employees and management. It lacks control. The business is so bad that scientists sometimes have to stop research because they have to wait for gloves or test tubes. Cooperation with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary is completely inadequate. There are fewer traces being investigated and the delivery times have become longer. That would damage the detection and prosecution of criminals. All in all, the situation is very worrying. How could it have come to this? The problems have already been identified in 1995, but the report seems to have fallen into a deep drawer. This report shows that the NFI has been massively abandoned by the Ministry of Security and Justice. There's hardly any direction on the course. The only control that has been there in recent years is that the NFI has split a huge cut in the stomach. It has really been very unwise to cut down on an organisation that was already in trouble, what was known in the Ministry, knowingly. How many times have we warned you? Tig times we have asked questions and had debates, apart from all the warnings of the staff, but the problems have always been played down by the ministers. How could the Minister have let it come to this? That's a really serious question. Only now is this taken seriously for the first time, now that we can no longer ignore it because there is a very hard report. However, it is still not taken fully seriously, because one of the root causes of the problems is the distortion between the capacity that the NFI can offer and what the police and the public prosecutor want to do about trace research. For example, the police can't send in all the DNA traces she has, far from it. There is increasing demand for technical evidence and complexity is increasing. We have discussed this with the Minister before in connection with the Zouridis report. Then a SP motion was adopted asking to identify the real demand from the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office for trace research and to clarify what budget would be included. That investigation has become really urgent. I believe that the parties that are about to form a cabinet and are therefore going to decide how much money is going to go to have access to this investigation, the implementation of that motion. After all, only then can things be put right. I'd like to get a commitment that this can happen quickly. Now what? What's next? There are such good and involved staff at the NFI that the report is hopeful that the current deadlock can be broken and that changes can be made. However, the Minister's support is needed. Only replacing the lead is symptom control. Only a lot of extra money isn't gonna solve all the problems. It is a neglected organisation, an organisation neglected by the Ministry. That is why the Minister must put things in order. It must be made clear, preferably today, what role the Minister sees in the future for the NFI. This must no longer remain unclear. We need a vision of the NFI. Under the direction of the Minister, cooperation between NFI and chain partners should be improved, in the interest of detection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u3	When it comes to vision, especially vision of the future of forensic research, I am curious about the SP's vision in this area. To what extent does the SP share the idea that you should not only have forensic research of the highest possible quality but that you should also organise it in such a way that a form of innovation comes out in the best way possible? To what extent should there be room for providers of quality research other than the NFI alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u4	That's a couple of questions mixed up. Of course, we share the view that research should be of the best possible quality. The NFI is still part of the world's top, but the concerns are great. One has to be careful that it stays at the top of the world. That's worry number one. The question then arises as to whether the NFI should be the only body. It isn't already. I think it is very good that the defense can sometimes opt for a counter-examination and when it is very busy at the NFI, other providers can be looked at. That is already the practice, but I had actually expected this question a bit from the VVD. Today we are talking about problems that have largely been caused by this ministry, under the leadership of the VVD, and by the cuts. Then it is very easy to undress such an institution in the future because of the always market ideology driven vision of the VVD. That is absolutely not the path the SP would like to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u5	I cannot imagine that Mr Van Oosten can let that go on his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u6	In fact, I don't mean that at all. I don't really have the NFI in mind. I, too, very much appreciate the NFI, and I will say it again later. I think it is particularly important that we ensure that we offer the best possible quality of forensic research in the Netherlands now but also in the future. I do not exclude that it can be interesting to look alongside the NFI, not only in the context of second opinions but perhaps also in the context of creating a kind of healthy competition in scientific research in the field of forensic research. I understand that Mr Van Nispen sees no room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u7	The NFI is an incredibly good scientific institute. We have discussed, among other things, the deletion of expertise, such as hair research, paint research and handwriting research. We have really opposed this, because it is important to have those smaller expertises at the NFI too, because then you can work together from the different disciplines. Unfortunately, we have not been able to stop that, but that shows how we look at the NFI. That absolutely must remain the world's top. You have to have different disciplines to do that. In my opinion, any further undressing of the NFI does not contribute in any way to increasing the quality. If Mr Van Oosten means that the NFI is not only there for trace research, I agree with him, because we all know that there are three core tasks. In addition to doing trace research, which is production, the NFI is at the same time a high-quality knowledge institute, but it is also about innovation. Of course, that will also have to be reflected in the vision we expect from the Minister, because I do not propose any change in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u8	Please continue your speech, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u9	I have a great deal of criticism today, because I think that is very much needed. The questions of the House and the letters of the minister of recent years are in an incredibly stark contrast to what we can all now read in the report. How many times have we warned you about that? But I come not only with criticism; I also come up with my own analysis and own proposals. This note from the SP contains all the proposals I'm making today. I would like to offer the Minister the note through the messenger and I would ask the Minister to take the note very seriously, because it has been made after working visits and a lot of discussions with the experts, with the workplace, because they know best what is needed. Finally, I would like to mention one of the proposals put forward by the SP today: finally involve the staff; give them control. This leads to involvement and responsibility for the organisation and the good work it does. So also give the employees control in the search for and appointment of a new director. I would like to get a commitment on that point and I would also like to have a positive response to the other proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u10	Mr Van Nispen has just delivered a note. It will also be distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u11	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands Forensic Institute, the NFI, is an institution to be proud of. I have made several work visits to it and I am always impressed by what is possible in the context of solving crimes. We must be careful about such an institution. However, we are having this debate today, which is not too early, because recently the Chamber received the research on the management and organizational culture at the NFI. This investigation was initiated after tensions had arisen between the managing director and the works council in 2015, partly due to major cuts. Delays occurred in criminal matters as research results from the NFI came too late. Employees of the NFI at the time expressed their concerns about the future of their organisation. Those concerns prove to be justified. The research shows that the image of management and organizational culture is serious. The essence is that there is a structural cultural problem. A few of the identified bottlenecks are too hierarchical management, dysfunctional modes of handling both horizontally and vertically and too much control of production. The cooperation within the organisation and with important partners of the NFI such as the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office is not good. It is also striking that the researchers indicate that many of the above-mentioned bottlenecks are structural and have already been described in previous studies, which go back to 1995. Then the found great motivation is appreciated by the employees of the NFI and also very important, but of course not enough. We therefore need clear, concrete measures that work. The Minister also writes this in his letter, in which he talks about short-term, medium-term and long-term measures. In his letter of 24 May this year, the Minister stated that he would also inform the Chamber of Auditors about the progress of the NFI change programme in future. As far as my group is concerned, that is too little, especially now that the researchers indicate that the greatest risk is that the change will start too slowly, stagnate or even stop. So I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I prefer to hear that he will report to the Chamber whenever necessary. As far as my group is concerned, once every six months it would not be too luxurious. The PVV has always been against the cuts on the NFI. The problems were already there, but the cuts have certainly put things on edge. The prosecution, the national police and the NFI have very often sent out the signal that the resolution of crimes is at risk. We have done so as a Chamber; Mr Van Nispen has already said so. The NFI is at the forefront internationally and plays a socially important role. Think, for example, of the involvement in the MH17 disaster. If the NFI wants to maintain that position, something must be done quickly. The Minister indicated that an interim manager would be appointed as soon as possible. It will be given the task of implementing the recommendations. But the report also shows clearly that both control on connection and management is necessary. How is the Minister going to implement this? For example, does he see anything in a technical director and a general director, so two people? Finally, I have a specific question on topical and urgent subjects. The D.A. wants to take DNA samples from about 15,000 men in an ultimate attempt to solve the murder of Nicky Verstappen. The judge commissioner has authorised the large DNA-related research that is expected to start this autumn. All the DNA that's being taken must be compared to the traces found on the victim's clothing. This will probably be the largest DNA related research ever in the Netherlands. Can the Minister guarantee that there will be sufficient money and capacity for this at the NFI?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u12	Thank you, Mrs Helder. The third speaker is Mr Van Dam, who is speaking on behalf of the CDA. As he walks to the chair, I mention that NFI stands for Dutch Forensic Institute. Of course, all the experienced speakers here know that, but for those who just turn on it might be good to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u13	Madam President. There have been cuts in all kinds of institutions in the criminal justice chain in recent years, not only in the criminal justice chain but also in all kinds of other public sectors. I don't have to tell you all that. It is only remarkable that the NFI seems to have gotten off track in such a way that this almost suggests that there is more to it than just a problem of austerity. That is also evident from the report that is here. I would like to thank the Minister for sending this detailed and open report to the Chamber, whatever it may have been. It starts with this insight. We need to see what can be improved. I think it's a very strange report somewhere. There may have been signals in 1995, but there has also been another period at the NFI. Not that long ago, it was NFI top of the bill. That was in the period of speeding up the criminal justice chain, with Lean Six Sigma and that sort of thing. Then the NFI was presented here and there as a successful organization. That was, I believe, under the former director. How does the Minister view this? In his opinion, what are really the factors that make the difference in dysfunction at the NFI? Let us be clear that the experts who provide the NFI for the criminal trial must come from an undisputed organisation. It must be a top institute. Of course it is, but it certainly needs to be more. For this, it is important that the task package is clear. I would like to know how the Minister looks at the relationship between production, knowledge and innovation. Then it's not about formation expansion and so on. I'd like to know what role he thinks the NFI should play. Is it just a production plant or is there enough room for manoeuvre and ambition to remain that knowledge institute? Finally, I have a question and a suggestion. We have all read in the report that there is also a cultural aspect in the NFI staff. This is perhaps understandable from the high level of training of employees. The proposals say that a new interim manager is being set up and that the Minister is going to interfere greatly. That is all very nice, but we have seen before how well it can work to set up a sort of visitation committee, for example at the Health Inspectorate, where people from a certain metier work. I am thinking of a visitation committee with scientists from relevant fields of activity, among others, who are watching how the NFI develops over the coming period. Within the CDA Group, there is a question as to whether this is a workable instrument for getting the NFI in the right direction in the coming years. That is what we would like above all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u14	I see that Mr Van Nispen has an interruption for you, Mr Van Dam, so please stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u15	I was listening with interest, also to the proposal for a visitation committee. Does Mr Van Dam mean that the staff and the scientists working at the NFI should also be given more control? If he is proposing that, I would very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u16	I think that the level of staff gives every reason to involve them in the development process in optima forma. The setting up of a committee containing recognizable peers from the scientific world could be a very good tool to set that movement in motion. I think there should be some sort of common ground in that visitation committee, so that management can also recognize itself in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u17	That's good to hear. I myself have also suggested that employees and scientists should be given more control because the report gives every reason to do so. That gap between the workplace and management has become very large. The report criticized the lack of control. It is good to hear that the CDA Group is looking at this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u18	If I may add one more thing: I think it is important not to just put the problem on the board of management. In organizations where such highly educated people work, it must be on everyone's plate. With that visitation committee, I'm trying to find an accompanying form for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u19	This brings Mr Van Dam to the end of his speech. I give the floor to Mr Van Oosten, who is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u20	Mr. Chairman. If there is any doubt as to whether a loved one died a non-natural death, of course, a next of kin would like nothing more than to know exactly what happened. Even if it is clear from the outset that someone died under suspicious circumstances, truth finding is of the utmost importance in order to find and convict the perpetrator. The Dutch Forensic Institute is therefore of great value in our criminal justice chain; colleagues have already indicated it. The specific knowledge, technologies and science applied have a very significant impact on detection and prosecution. We saw it at the MH17. We have also recently read in the newspaper about the kin research on murders committed on prostitutes in the 1980s and 1990s. That very specific investigation may be crucial in a final conviction. It is therefore a good thing that we are talking today about the serious, but also tough, and in any case very long-term cultural problems that play a part in the organisation of the NFI. I do not run away from the fact that the Netherlands Forensic Institute has also suffered from austerity in recent years, as is the case with the whole of the Netherlands. Some of these cuts have been offset by an intensification of forensic research capacity. But I too would like to know what is true of the concerns expressed, among other things, by the works council about the fear that fewer crimes could be solved. I'd like to get a response from the Minister on that point. I want that response from the Minister all the more so because those internal problems are wider and deeper than just financial problems. They are also older than the recent austerity round. The report we received states that a document containing similar comments was issued in 1995. For years, several advisors have worked on changes in business management, improvement of internal cooperation, coaching and so on. Those deeper organizational problems are so I guess it's not easy to solve. Perhaps that can be explained, I read, because it concerns researchers who work with a great deal of expertise in the interests of our society. That focus may also carry the risk that there is too little attention to the relational side; let me mention that. At the same time, these researchers must continue to be able to do their work independently, because that is again so crucial for the truth finding. Improvement measures are now being proposed. I wholeheartedly support them. We received a letter from the Minister. How does he really see his role in this area? What's he gonna do? It is really high time to stop the arguments that are evidently present in the organisation. I would also like to say that it is time to think seriously about the extent to which innovation in the field of forensic research can be developed in places other than the NFI. Private organisations may also play a role in taking over a number of specialties. I am concerned that we should ensure that forensic research in the Netherlands is brought to the highest level. More providers may contribute to this. I have already indicated that there is nothing wrong with a healthy scientific competition. It can stimulate innovation, quality and possibly also lead times. I would like to make two brief points. I have previously advocated a national protocol for first-line forensic research; at least that is what I call it. It seemed at that time that blood or urine tests were not carried out equally throughout the country, et cetera. I wouldn't like that. I would therefore like to know from the Minister how things stand. Finally, I would like to present to the Minister another case, namely the case of a traffic accident in which a ghost driver causes deadly victims; abominable. Now it appears that no standard assessment is made of the condition of the causer, while there are, of course, questions in relation to the next of kin. Was the killer, the causer, drunk or drugged? Why is the first-line study not carried out in such cases? For example, you can draw blood to see if the causer had been drinking or to see if there were drugs involved. That can be of great significance to next of kin. To be honest, I think they deserve clarification in these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u21	I had hoped for a little more reflection on the VVD Group. A question has been asked about the cuts. There had to be savings on almost the whole of the Netherlands, but that does not necessarily make sense to cut back on an organisation that is getting more and more traces of justice, while at the same time things are becoming more complex. We now have the report in hand. During last week's technical briefing of the researchers, it was literally said that the cuts have sharpened the proportions. We're reading a report full of criticism of that. Now, looking back, Mr Van Oosten can say: it was really stupid to cut this important organisation in the criminal justice chain so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u22	I'm not saying that. In fact, I refer to the 1995 report which made similar comments. I'm not running away from the fact that there's been cuts. That's what I'm saying. This has happened with the NFI and with many other organisations that are very important in this country, but it had to be. Well, then the question is, how do you deal with that? Next, I note that, apart from the cuts, there are deeper questions at the Dutch Forensic Institute. They ignore questions of a financial nature, because this also happened in 1995 and in all the years so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u23	It is, of course, a political choice to cut back on an organisation that contributes to the detection and prosecution of criminals. So I had hoped for more self-reflection. Then let me ask you a different question. Fortunately, the VVD voted in favour of the motion of the SP in which the government is asked to identify what is really needed for trace research and what budget comes with it. Now we know that if we do nothing today, we won't have the research we're all looking for until 2018, so we know what the budget will be. Then we can make a good or wrong political choice of how much budget we make available to the NFI. Does Mr Van Oosten support our question to the Minister as to whether this research can be speeded up, so that we can know as soon as possible, including those who are about to form? We will not be together; perhaps we will be or else he will be. Those parties should have access to that budget review that is really necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u24	In general, I do not tend to put a stop to thinking, so if Mr Van Nispen is interested in some form of investigation, he is free to ask the Minister. Perhaps we can find each other on points. Mr Van Nispen asks for a reflection on the past tense. I gave it to him. This is not enough to suit his taste. Mr Van Nispen also heard me say how I look at the future. Then I am concerned about the best quality of forensic care and forensic research in the Netherlands. The NFI plays a crucial role in this, but I also want to know from the Minister what is possible in this area, alongside the NFI, when it comes to innovations. That is what I want to know, and I can ask that question with Mr Van Nispen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u25	I would like to give Mr Van Nispen the opportunity to respond briefly and then allow Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u26	Very briefly. It is not a new investigation, but it is an adopted motion, which the VVD fortunately voted for. I am asking about the implementation of this motion, which I would like to speed up, because it is important for all of us to know what budget the NFI actually needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u27	I have already supported this motion, so you have that support. It is now up to the Minister to implement it. He's heard us debate. I also think it's important to know what we're talking about. Let's hear from the Minister how fast that investigation can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u28	I think I hear a contradiction in Mr Van Oosten's speech. He has said that he still sees a role for private providers. My group is not in favour of this. We have often spoken in debates about the fact that we believe that, because of the limited budget, the NFI is resorting to private providers. Mr Van Oosten's group is in favour of this, but I heard him speak later on about a blood test which is not carried out in the same way. Surely that danger sneaks in when you let various providers do the same kind of research?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u29	No, because what comes next is that I advocate a nationwide protocol, but give it a name. I just want the same standard to take place throughout the country, because it is not possible to explain that a particular type of research is not being carried out in Groningen and in Zeeland it is. You could even have a killer who's still dealing with it a little calculatingly. I don't think that's the problem. You have to make good deals about that. Rather, what matters to me is that innovative side that we require of the NFI, which can bring the quality of our forensic care and forensic research in particular to an even higher level. I don't rule out having to build a little more healthy scientific competition. I'm not afraid of that. I ask the Minister what room he sees for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u30	Short, finalizing. Perhaps I can understand it so that Mr Van Oosten thinks it is an en-en situation, because otherwise there is no competition, and certainly not healthy competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u31	Is it an en-en situation, Mr Van Oosten?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u32	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u33	Look, it can happen that fast. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u34	Mr. Chairman. Forensics have been on a high flight in recent years. Many criminal cases are solved by forensics. If forensic research is so important, then a state-of-the-art forensic research institute is absolutely necessary. The Netherlands Forensic Institute is absolutely top level. However, there are serious problems. The report on the NFI is worrying: lack of mutual trust, poor communication and a difficult relationship with the main chain partners, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. It cannot be that the police cannot send in forensic investigations, that the waiting times are rising and that excessive workload makes mistakes. Forensic research is crucial to the fight against crime and we must therefore organise it properly. As far as I am concerned, it is particularly regrettable that this has happened, despite the many warnings about the situation at the NFI. In recent years, it has occasionally seemed as if the Chamber spoke to the Minister against deaf ears when for the umpteenth time there were disturbing signals about the NFI. It is also sad that we, as a Chamber last week, were told by the researchers who prepared the report that many employees of the NFI were doing predatory work on their own in order to guarantee the quality of their work. That is an extremely undesirable situation. Unfortunately, looting is an image that will also be known to many policemen, prosecutors and judges. In recent years, too much has simply been asked of the entire criminal justice chain. The report also shows that I agree with Mr Van Oosten that the problems in the NFI are not entirely new. As early as the 1990s, there were cultural problems. However, in recent years too much has been directed towards finance and production and too little attention has been paid to quality, innovation and development. This is, of course, a tragedy for a knowledge institute. That is why I have a number of critical questions for the Minister. Does the Minister share the observation that the NFI has been handled carelessly? Does the Minister share my view that there should be more room and quality at the NFI? If so, how does he see this concretely? How does the Minister intend to facilitate innovation and development at the NFI in the coming years? I don't want to look back alone. The NFI has to move forward. The search in the Netherlands needs a well-functioning NFI. There's an improvement plan and the NFI has to work on it. In any case, the employees are very motivated. As far as my group is concerned, there is also a mandate for the Minister. We need a vision of the NFI, within the entire chain of detection and prosecution. Only in this way can the knowledge institute that the NFI is with peace of mind enter the future. This requires the Minister, together with all the chain partners involved, to consider the future challenges of detection, prosecution and justice and the role that the NFI can and must play in this. Finally, therefore, the question to the Minister whether, and if so how, he is going to shape this vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u35	Mrs Buitenweg has the floor. Mrs Buitenweg spoke on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. This is a maiden speech and that means she can't be interrupted. I see a number of people who find that very regrettable, so, Mr Van Dam, if you are really tempted, it may be allowed. Mrs Buitenweg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u36	Mr. Chairman. I'm honored to be standing here as a justice spokesperson for GroenLinks. I look forward to working constructively with fellow speakers from other parties in the coming years. When I read today's topic, I was glad to be surprised. Because I've been a member of NFI for years. Through NFI I made my first step on the European stage almost thirty years ago. But then it turned out it wasn't about the NaturFreunde International, the international nature friends. The abbreviation is in this Chamber for the Dutch Forensic Institute, as you yourself said. Let me now focus on the problems that are going on there. They're serious enough. The problems are described in an extensive report by research firm AEF (Andersson Elffers Felix), in collaboration with INK. It is useful that this has appeared. In the report you can read about the organizational culture, about the kingdoms, the internal tensions that are missing opportunities, about the lack of a common mission and about the fact that an important core task, scientific research and the increasing innovation is at stake. That's serious. Recommendations are made on how to find the way up and how to improve organisational culture. In addition, it analyses what caused the problems. I leave the problem of management culture to the executives and, of course, to the minister. I would like to go into one of the main reasons for the escalation, the cuts in 2015. These amounted to 13% of the budget for the NFI. They were part of Mr Van Dam's report on a complete cut in the justice chain. There was less money for parole, for legal aid, for the judiciary, and so on. We are increasingly seeing the consequences of these cuts, as is the case with the NFI. We see that this is developing less than it should. And so the institute is not ready for a bigger role in the detection phase. Formerly, forensic trails were mostly needed in the prosecution phase, but nowadays forensic research plays an increasingly important role in finding criminals, as Mrs Helder mentioned. That means that police teams benefit from speed. If the blood traces on a sweater have already been analyzed but not yet, then the first information has to go to the police, but according to this report it is often waited until everything is collected, which is worrying. Better agreements will have to be made with the police and, by the way, with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the incumbent magistrate who would often not even know where to knock. In a rule of law, it is crucial to know that perpetrators are punished and that innocent people are cleared of all blame as soon as possible and that the government uses the special power it can exercise over citizens very carefully. It is our responsibility to equip the institutions accordingly. This will be one of my personal priorities in the coming years: strengthening the institutions of our rule of law. I have been a Member of the European Parliament for ten years, and I have worked hard for both the freedom and the security of European citizens. I was and am strongly in favour of European cooperation in the field of police and justice. Crime is literally and figuratively cross-border. But these measures are always about a balance. If suspects are easily extradited, then the rights of suspects must also be secured across Europe. If we share evidence, what we do, then we must also ensure that institutions are of sufficient quality in all countries. In those years, I have often been critical of the quality of the rule of law in other Member States. In the last eight years, I have dealt with law in other positions, including as a member of the Human Rights College. There I have seen that things sometimes go horribly wrong in the Netherlands, as with the Schiedammer Parkhide. There, doubts of NFI employees have been swept away and muffled away, leaving an innocent man unjustly imprisoned for years and the actual perpetrator at large. I understand that individuals can fail and that this is not a matter for the entire government, but I am concerned about the pressure sometimes placed on institutions to run production and about the decline in quality resulting from it. Then the pressure on our rule of law becomes structural. I see it as an important responsibility to strengthen the quality of the justice chain, to give the opportunity to professionals, to ensure a good balance between repressive measures and civil rights and to allow forensic research to be carried out independently, carefully and in time. The big question is what the NFI needs, what resources and what possibilities. Is there a need to recalibrate the tasks and future of the NFI? How does the Minister think innovation is being promoted? On all these questions I like to hear him because this is the time to join the NFI in setting the road up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u37	Mrs Buitenweg, I would like to congratulate you on your maiden speech from this place. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that those present can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u38	I give the floor to Mrs Kuik, the last speaker in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u39	Mr. Chairman. The fine, or the annoying, last speaker is that you may have little to add to what has already been said. I feel great agreement in the Chamber on the importance and appreciation of the NFI and the concerns expressed. Unfortunately, I couldn't be at the technical briefing, but I did take a look at the past. I'd like to ask another question about that later. We agree that the report is staggering and worrying. Miscommunications, conflicts and lack of trust do not create an atmosphere in which the people working at the NFI can function optimally. In 2012 a report was published entitled The Future of Forensic Research; maybe I'm not saying the title very well. In 2013 it was investigated how the forensic investigation should be secured with the national police, precisely because part of the investigation task was already fragmented: partly with the police, partly private, meant as an overpressure valve for cases that the NFI couldn't solve at the time. We have now concluded that the supply is always greater than demand. It always will, no matter how much money you put in it. That was the analysis back then. A number of scenarios have been laid down which could serve as a basis for the future of the NFI. That brings me to my specific question. What have we done between 2013, 2015 and now? What role has the Minister and the Ministry played in this? What direction did they take in that? The signals from 2015 that it did not go well with the culture and the leadership and that there was mutual distrust were not new. Those signals were shared with the Chamber earlier. What role has the Minister, at least his predecessor, played in this? Did he take the signals seriously? It was ultimately the or that insisted on a report. That wasn't a nice report, it wasn't fun for all the people who work there, but it was a good report, because it made insightful what was pinching. Hopefully, this report will be the starting point for a new joint future. My colleagues have already asked questions on the following point. Concerns have been expressed, including by the works council, about the number of suspects who have been out for unnecessarily long periods of time and also about the number of suspects who have been detained for unnecessarily long periods. That, I think, is spicy in the light of statements made by former Secretary of State Bitches. I would like to comment on this point, not on the statements made by the former Secretary of State, but on the concerns that arise about the number of suspects. Questions have been asked about capacity: what can the NFI do? Supply and demand must be matched as much as possible, but you cannot ask for more than you actually have available capacity and resources. I would like to leave it at first. In conclusion, I would like to say that I think Mr Van Dam's proposal to introduce a form of visitation, to put something wrong so that you can keep your finger on the wrist, is a good suggestion. If there is an even better suggestion, I will return to Mr Van Dam's suggestion, in consultation with the Chamber, but I think it is a good suggestion. That is why I would like a response. Oh, I'm sorry, I'm not entirely up to speed. I must, of course, congratulate Mrs Buitenweg on her maiden speech, the one-after-last of her group. That's really nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u40	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister has informed me that he needs 15 minutes to prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u41	I see the Minister is ready for the first-term response. All the speakers are also present. I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u42	Madam President. I would, of course, like to begin by congratulating Mrs Buitenweg on her maiden speech. It has rightly paid attention to the quality and institutions of the rule of law. We will undoubtedly talk about this in detail, but I can tell you that in the near future the Chamber will receive a report comparing the quality of the institutions of the rule of law in the Netherlands and in other countries. This may also provide an interesting basis for continuing this debate. Today we are talking about one of those important institutions in the Dutch rule of law: the NFI. All speakers pointed out that there was a very solid and often painful and revealing report. That report was published after a period in which the NFI was on the one hand an organisation that belonged to the world summit, which provided excellent quality and had very involved employees. On the other hand, the organization was often the subject of annoying discussions here in the Chamber and beyond. This has affected the staff, and that has affected the public image of the functioning of detection and prosecution. It is therefore essential that the necessary measures be taken on the basis of this report. I shall, of course, go into all the questions, but first of all note that I agree with the speakers that the report is so in-depth and leads to such firm conclusions that the urgency that the report calls for and the comprehensiveness of the measures are indeed now being discussed. Indeed, I am now the minister responsible for this. In replying to the questions, I will bring together a number of themes. I'll start with the look-back, so with the questions about the role of the ministry in the past. Then, logically, there will be a look to the future. Then I will answer the questions about the NFI's internal management and culture, the questions about the new management and the questions about the cooperation in the chain. Finally, the inevitable chapter "other questions" follows. I'll start with the questions about the past, with the look back. That is what all the speakers have been talking about. Mr Van Nispen was the first to refer to the passage in the research report, which looks back at the multiple observations on culture at the NFI. The first study that was mentioned here dates back to 1995. So that's from 22 years ago. The report also outlines that there have been periods of growth at that time. Mr Van Dam also pointed that out. So it was not just a question of austerity. In recent years, there has indeed been austerity, but fortunately we have recently been able to free up some extra money. Unfortunately, there have been cultural problems in this period since 1995, and not only in periods of austerity. I will, moreover, go into these cuts even more in detail later. The report does say, understandably, that in a period of austerity problems suddenly become apparent. The English say: at low tide you suddenly see who doesn't have a swimsuit. But that's in English. Of course, that's what's going on here. The report also cracks a critical note about the way in which this austerity has been carried out. The report is also critical of the role played by the Ministry; we simply need to be honest in this. I will go into the measures I want to take there in a moment. The report is also critical of how all those experts, who are truly world-class, work together within the NFI and how they deal with key partners such as the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I take the blame to the Ministry. I'm also ministerially responsible for that. However, it is not the case that I can do anything with only measures on that side. Then I wouldn't do justice to this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u43	This calls for an interruption by Mr Van Dam of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u44	I am interrupting for a moment, because the whole debate is basically about the validity of the report. How correct is that report? I would like to put the following to the Minister. The 1995 observation is in the report. I have not found so many concrete observations from the past. However, I just found out on the internet that the manager of the NFI was nominated in 2012 as government manager of the year. I have the text of the jury report with me. It says that with his entrepreneurial approach he has made the NFI a globally recognized institution: all roaring texts. The report also states that he has managed to include his employees in a far-reaching process of change, in which process optimisation has been achieved, new analysis techniques have been applied, there has been a reduction in the lead times and that sort of thing. Now it is not so much about asking the Minister what he thought of previous managers. I am concerned that I find it disturbing that this period has apparently not been highlighted in any way in this report. Today, on the basis of the report, we are right to draw proper conclusions, and we are asking for things from the Minister, but we must stand on a good floor. I'm not sure about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u45	I understand that Mr Van Dam brings in the report on the government manager of the year. I think that's very sharp of him, by the way. I'm just gonna respond to what he's saying, because I don't have the report in front of me. When it comes to the quality of the work and the quality of the processes, I do not see any light between what Mr Van Dam read from a 2012 report and the analysis that is now before us. In that analysis, the quality of work is said to be top of the bill and people are good. At the same time, it is stated in the analysis that the first report in which the emphasis on culture was found dates back to 1995. One speaks of "one of the documents" found by AEF, the Examination Office. The whole list is not in this piece of text, but it shows that they have found several reports, the oldest of which dates from 1995, which dealt with the cultural problem. I am referring now to a quote, but this is one of the red threads in the further opinions. The fact that the employees are so excellent in quality and do highly specialised work has a downside. If you don't be very conscious about the culture, the problems that have arisen can arise. So the task now is to tackle it. Looking back is always useful to learn lessons, but you shouldn't linger in them endlessly. However, I also understand the reasoning that, at a time when money is not a problem and the organisation can even grow, problems come to the surface less quickly than at a time when there is pressure from austerity. I think that's very plausible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u46	Let me conclude with the following question to the Minister. The report was commissioned by the director of the NFI and the works council. Do they share in full the conclusions of this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u47	The works council must speak for itself. I do not think he has expressed a reaction in which this is called into question or confirmed. I'll check it out before the second term. But as far as I'm aware, there's no official response from the works council. The Director's response falls under my ministerial responsibility, and we are now talking about the ministerial response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u48	I have a question about the shared vision of the future. The report suggests that the lack of a shared vision of the future also has an impact on relations within the organisation. Then it's hard to get all the noses in the same direction. Does the Minister share this view? And what link does he think exists between the lack of a shared vision of the future and the relations within the organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u49	I had just promised that I would start with the chapter "past" and then go to the chapter "future."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u50	Then we'll keep this question for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u51	If I do not go into this in sufficient detail, Mrs Buitenweg will find me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u52	Does this mean you're still working on the "past" block?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u53	Oh, yeah. I got all these questions about that, and I answered them nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u54	Then Mr Van Nispen can wait a while. Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u55	Mr Groothuizen asked, as part of his review: can you say that there has been carelessness with the NFI and that therefore the quality is insufficient? You can never completely rule out that in a period of austerity and high workload things go wrong that otherwise will not go wrong. I would violate the truth if I suggested it wasn't. That was also the subject of the hearing. I do know that the people at the NFI are very carefully integrating controls into their process steps and that quality really is in their genes. That's part of the NFI's good practice. This is also being reviewed by the Accreditation Board. The research report also indicates that the problems that have been found are not only very unpleasant for the employees; if you allow them to continue, they can also have consequences for quality. But we have no concrete evidence that any mistakes have been made by this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u56	I have one supplementary question to ask. The Minister has just freely admitted that he would have liked to see more attention paid to the culture within the NFI. Does he also recognise the image that the employees of the NFI sometimes really had to walk on their gums to ensure quality? How does he judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u57	That was also mentioned in the hearing. I have already indicated that I have a great deal of respect for that and that in such a situation you cannot rule out that mistakes are made that are not otherwise made. I realize very well that we, and by that I mean the cabinet and myself, have asked a great deal from the NFI. In my previous role, I was responsible for one of the biggest cuts in a ministry. There was once a whole Department of Housing. When I arrived there was another Directorate General Living with four directors. Within two years, we would have made a huge legislative process. Back then, we had no Director General and only two directors. I've got a lot of awe about these people. But I still think it's justified that we did that back then. The Netherlands comes from a very difficult time. We had to take very painful measures. That's what you see at the NFI and in other places. That does mean you're asking a lot of employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u58	I think it's a good thing you're moving on, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u59	Then I come to the perspective of the future. Mr Van Nispen spoke about this...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u60	Yeah, we did owe them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u61	I did ask a question about the past. It's a good thing we're looking back from 1995, but I'm just gonna limit myself to the last three years. I have a stack of answers to Parliamentary questions here. For example, on 24 November 2014, the Minister says that the assignment will even contribute to improving quality and not lead to loss of quality. In April 2015, the Minister pretends that the cooperation between the NFI, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office is going well and that this cooperation is proceeding to the satisfaction of all parties. In September 2015, the Minister is confident that the Executive Board of the NFI will properly fulfil the mission, taking due account of the satisfaction and position of the employees of the NFI. I can go on like this for a while. Virtually nothing in these answers corresponds to the image that emerges from the investigation. In other words, it just doesn't add up to the facts. How can it be that the Minister obviously always did not know what it really was like at the Dutch Forensic Institute? At least I do not assume that the Chamber has been deliberately misinformed. How can it be that the Minister has not been receptive to all those signals, which not only came from the Chamber, but which were also given by all those concerned staff directly under the Ministry of Security and Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u62	I have already indicated that this report is also critical of the role played by the Ministry. I'm ministerially responsible for this ministry. Legally, I am responsible for the present and past of the Ministry. I therefore take this criticism to heart. In the rest of my consideration, I will also address the measures I want to take. Again, I'm responsible, but you can't stick around in the past. With regard to the housing market, too, I could have asked myself endlessly: how could we have let housing corporations get out of the way and why are the debts in the Netherlands so high? That wouldn't have helped. I've sent proposals to the Chamber to deal with it. Some proposals have been supported by Parliament and others have been supported slightly less widely. But you've got to move on if you're all gonna find yourself in trouble. In my opinion, it is in the interests of the NFI staff and the quality of the search that we are now going to take these steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u63	It is indeed extremely important that we take these steps. Precisely because I am not stuck in the past, I have offered a whole plan to the Minister in which I make proposals on how I think it should be done better. Hopefully we'll talk about that. I think it is important to look back very carefully and carefully, because you can learn from that look back what went wrong: too little control for the employees, too little confidence inside and too little confidence outside, also towards the chain partners. If we are to look at what we can do to prevent this happening in the future, we must have a very clear view of the past. I'm glad the Minister's equestrian is wearing the penance rug. Actually, that fits his predecessors, but he's ministerially responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Van Nispen. I'm sure the Minister would like to respond to that. Then comes Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u65	No, I don't always have to disagree with Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u66	Fine, then I give the floor to Mr Van Dam of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u67	I do not think the comparison with living is very happy, however much I respect what the Minister has done in that area. You could almost think: we can abolish V and J; then we can bring it back if that is the solution. The information is a structural point at the Ministry of V and J. Do we get to hear in the Chamber what the real story is? However, I would like to emphasise that this has been very annoying in this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u68	Clear! The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u69	I'd like to respond now. I drew the comparison with living, because painful measures have also been taken in this area towards both employees and Dutch society. I feel fully responsible for that. I have absolutely the ambition to inform the Chamber, not only when it asks for it, but also when I have information that I think is very important and which I want to send to the Chamber on my own behalf. Mr Van Nispen and the other members have asked about the future. I absolutely want the NFI to remain in the top of the world, where it belongs as a Dutch institution. I am convinced that the necessary steps need to be taken in a changing environment. Together with the NFI and the chain partners, with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police as the most important, I would like to develop an improvement programme in the future on the basis of the recommendations in this report. In this context, a future vision will be developed together with the chain partners, the users of the NFI's products in the context of their investigation work. For example, because DNA analysis is becoming increasingly difficult, I think it is important to consider how the chain partners, especially the police, can get access to DNA analysis equipment themselves. Because I generally like not having all the eggs in one basket, I also want to look with the chain partners at which providers there are. In some areas, such as DNA analysis, there are more providers. When the NFI had its hands full with the MH17 study, more DNA analysis was outsourced than usual to other parties. Also because I do not want all eggs in one basket, I want to see how we can ensure that there are sufficient providers of different detection methods. In addition, I would like to place the development of knowledge, which continues to be part of the front line of international forensic research, at the heart of the NFI. The investigation shows that the content of the NFI is very good. On the part of new knowledge development, the NFI should be able to excel, even more so than on the bulk studies. I will continue to develop that strategy with the users. These legs will in any case be important parts of them. Mr Van Nispen has drawn up a very comprehensive document containing a number of proposals. I think it is very chic for Members of Parliament not only to ask questions, but also to come up with their own solutions. I think it would be a good idea if I could put it on a point-by-point basis when I come up with that vision of the future. If I were to do this now, I would, in my view, be doing Mr van Nispen a great deal less. I find a number of things very recognizable. I know I do not make Mr Van Nispen happy quickly, but on the financial area, I say that for 2016 and also for the years to come, more money has been made available for the NFI. The role of participation and the choice of a new director are also discussed. Participation in the Netherlands is, of course, carefully regulated by law, even more so in the government than in the private sector. Through the legal powers of control the employees also have influence in appointments. I think that the Chamber would put itself out of play when government institutions would have to elect their director from now on. This would mean that the Chamber would no longer be able to appeal to the Minister. So I wouldn't recommend that route to the Chamber. But fortunately we have already arranged for participation to have its role in reorganisations and important appointments. I say again that I will go into all the suggestions in more detail when I come up with the vision of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u70	Nevertheless, Mr Van Nispen wishes to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u71	I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to return to this point. Indeed, that seems to me to be a more careful way than if the Minister were to do so immediately this evening. But on the question of control, I have a further question. It is a pity that the Minister has already said: choosing a new director is actually too much. There is a gap between management and the workplace, and there is a great deal of mistrust that has arisen. In view of this, I think it would be very good to have those staff elected, for example on a proposal from the Minister. The Minister says that participation is already well regulated by the law. That would mean that the law has been broken in recent years, given what's in the report. The problem, in my view, is not that legal participation would not be properly regulated. I don't think that's the problem. The report deals with a complete lack of control for employees and scientists. They could not co-operate on the vision and direction of the Dutch Forensic Institute. But they also had no control over their daily work. When people have control over their daily work, it just makes the job better. I therefore urge the Minister not to do this by saying that we have legal participation. In my view, he is failing to make this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u72	I first respond to what Mr Van Nispen says about choosing a director. This organization is just a hundred percent government. If we were to allow a government organization like the NFI to choose a director, why not allow that to happen with the Social Insurance Bank or the UWV? What if a government organization chose a director? Imagine in such a situation that the Chamber is dissatisfied with the functioning of the Social Insurance Bank or the UWV. I can remember that from time to time. Suppose the Chamber asks: is the director really okay, who was elected by the staff? And let's say the employees say, "Yeah, that director is a cool guy, or a cool guy." Then the Chamber of State will be in an impossible position. I wouldn't recommend that to her. Mr Van Nispen also spoke about the position of participation. There is little control of one's own work. As far as I am concerned, the way in which this is done is not even part of the organised consultation that we have legally established. Little control over one's own work is a matter of management culture. Organize contradiction, listen to what people have to say. Legally, we have regulated, in the government even more extensive than in private business, what participation rights there are in the case of reorganisations or appointments. Those rights can do their full job here. They also bring with them a responsibility for those who are active in those participation bodies. There is also something about this in the report. A participation body can also be expected to be critical but at the same time looking for the feasible and solutions. So I don't think it's in the rules. That is what I found at the heart of the report: it doesn't have much to do with regulation; it has to do with culture, cooperation, giving each other something, realism, dare to be critical and create an open atmosphere in the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u73	Exactly. I also didn't say it was in the laws and the rules. No, it has everything to do with culture and trust. That is why I ask the Minister to ensure in the plan he is going to make, that people are given more control over their daily work. Then about choosing the new director; I am not suggesting that the minister be completely out of line. I think it is quite possible and very important, given the huge gap that has arisen in the past. You cannot compare it with any other (public) organisation to involve these employees very carefully in this process, so that we no longer end up in the same situation. This is without prejudice to the entire ministerial responsibility. It's just about how you're gonna set up that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u74	'Involvement in' along the usual route of participation, I say yes to that. Especially in a debate by the Committee on Security and Justice, you should not be surprised that I am using constitutional arguments. I cannot use a completely different appointment procedure in one government organisation than in other places. I'm gonna tell you why I'm gonna make the choice where I come from. Mr Van Dam asked to look at the relationship between production, the role in education and the role in innovation. All three aspects are incredibly important. I indicated in my introduction that I see the most crucial role for the NFI in being a top knowledge institute at the forefront of developments in forensic research. When it comes to the other types of research, it will be different by type whether the technology is now so far that the research I gave as an example the DNA research is partly already possible by the police themselves. You also have other providers for peak periods, as we have already had them and as we can have them with the one-stop-shop principle. You don't want all the eggs in one basket. As Mr Van Nispen said, it may also be useful for parties in a court of law to consult other parties. With all praise for the NFI, last week there was another article in the Dutch Lawyer's Magazine by an author who criticized the operation of the NFI. It's also part of an open society. This is also part of the development of science and scientific applications. But you must ensure that there is sufficient quality to ensure that good forensic research is always available in the Netherlands. As far as I am concerned, that is a crucial part of that forward view, that vision of the future. Mr Van Dam suggested that a visitation committee be set up to see how cultural change is developing at the NFI. He drew the parallel with the Health Inspectorate. I think that is a constructive suggestion. It gives the Chamber, the staff of the NFI and myself the opportunity to have expert third parties look at the process that is taking place there. I would therefore like to make a proposal on this subject within the framework of the further plans that I will submit to the Chamber. Then I come to the questions that have been asked about business management and culture. First of all, I come back to Mr Van Nispen's questions. He asked: is it so bad with business management that the primary process has been compromised? In recent years there have been delays in purchasing; I thought that was also the example Mr Van Nispen mentioned. They also became really annoying in daily work. But the acute purchasing problems have now been solved, I understand. Mrs Buitenweg asked about the reduction in the budget. In my introduction, I indicated that this decline has undoubtedly required a great deal from the organisation and that it has made the problems, which, to a large extent, are already going on before the cuts, very visible. The good news is that extra money has been available for the NFI since 2016. From 2017 that is structuralally 5 million. This means that there is more room for manoeuvre in financial terms. Mr Van Oosten asked about the split, as he called it, between the independence of being a scientific institution and the acceptance of control because the NFI is ultimately also a government organisation that is so life is bound to a certain production and business arrangements. In my opinion, this combination is at the same time a challenge and inevitable. Many of the debates I have with the Chamber are about such a task. This afternoon Mrs Helder went into the police investigation, where the policemen and women report: we want to do our job very well, but those people in The Hague make us available a budget X; if they make more available, we could do more. That's true anyway. I can perfectly understand that if you do your work with heart and soul, regardless of whether it's the police or the NFI, you're thinking, if they gave us some more space, we could really do more. At the same time, working for each organisation, certainly a government organisation, means that you are always part of the political weighing process. This means, on the financial side, that ultimately the choice is made here of how much money goes to security, how much to education and how much to other purposes, and how much money is asked of citizens to pay off to the government at all. In there, the people and the organizations that are going to work with that community money also demand the way that money is used. That's what we do everywhere. The tension which Mr Van Oosten rightly points out is very pregnant at the NFI, but is not unique to the NFI. We cannot and must not remove that tension, because that tension is also healthy. The tension of knowing that resources are scarce and that you always have to weigh what you spend your tax euro on as a country and what you as an organisation give priority to within the human resources and resources available, also ensures that a country can function properly. So that is also a task that we can simply ask of the NFI. We need to stay focused on the signals we get from the NFI, but the task is not unique and not impossible. I'll get to the questions about the new director. I have already addressed, even extensively, the questions about choosing the director. Mrs Helder asked what I think of the suggestion in the report that a general director should be cut off from a technical or substantive director. The Chamber knows we're recruiting for an interim director right now. We are very far away from that, so I hope to be able to make that known in the short term. That'll be one more person. I'd like to talk to that director and see if we can implement this recommendation. I intend to inform the Chamber about the progress of the measures in six months' time; that was another question from Mrs Helder. Then I shall return to this question. I now turn to questions about cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police and whether the capacity is sufficient. Mr Van Nispen referred to the motion adopted which called for this to be examined and asked whether that study could be available for the formation. I fear that my answer must be that I do not hope so, because that research starts in June and is therefore ready in 2018. I hope there will be a new cabinet in 2018. Especially in view of the history we are looking at today, it would be careless to use a quick and dirty research to try to achieve what the WODC is going to do with a careful investigation. Mr Van Oosten referred to the concern expressed that the cuts could solve fewer crimes. I've already indicated that the fact that you always allocate a budget to every topic that the government deals with, and that professionals always hope it's more, means that you have to make choices. The argument that with a larger budget, whether for the police, the NFI or the Public Prosecutor's Office, you could have solved even more cases, is therefore, in general, true. If you look at this from the point of view of whether the way in which we allocate these funds is irresponsible or that the cut was not feasible, then my answer is: no, it was not irresponsible and it was not impossible either. It was a tough job, though. Mrs Kuik asked this question along a slightly different route: she asked whether, as a result of the cuts in the NFI, people are unjustly detained or are out for too long. It will not surprise Mrs Kuik that my answer to her is in the same vein. In general, you can answer: the bigger the budget, the more business you can do. However, you cannot say that there has now been irresponsible action. Researchers also indicate that they cannot identify one-on-one errors as a result of the NFI measures or as a result of the NFI situation. I now come to the remaining questions on various subjects. Ms. Helder addressed the newly announced kin research in the Nicky Verstappen case. It asked whether funding is available and whether the NFI can handle this. The answer is that the NFI has experience in similar investigations, for example in the Vaatstra case. In this case, the NFI may outsource part of the investigation. That's what happened before in DNA testing. We have enough funding for the investigation. There is no cause for concern in that regard. Mr Van Oosten referred to the situation of death, for example in the case of a ghost rider. Although the perpetrator is literally in the cemetery, it may be important for the next of kin to know whether there was alcohol or drug use. I've spoken to the Chamber before about autopsy and judicial sections. This question was also raised at that time. I put a task force to work. It will come this summer, I expect in July, with a report which will address this question, which was raised at the time. I therefore consider it purely, to the task force and to the Chamber, to return to this question in July. Mrs Buitenweg referred to the fact that results of partial studies are not reported before the entire study is completed. That is sometimes the case; it depends on it. Where subjects are submitted as separate applications to the NFI, separate reports shall be made on them. It is also possible to agree on interim reports. Well, then we're talking about customization. So it is not the law of Meden and Persians that partial investigations are not possible. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u75	I also asked a question about a national protocol for the first-line crime investigation. This was also mentioned in the debate with Mrs Helder. I was told earlier that there are sometimes differences between different regions in the country. In one case, standard blood tests are carried out to check for alcohol and in the other case not. That seems undesirable to me, because it can also give a wrong starting point in the detection, prosecution and so on of crimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u76	I don't have the answer to that. I hope I have it in second term, otherwise I will return to it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u77	The Minister said at the end of his reply that it is indeed possible to carry out partial investigations. There is no need to wait until all the investigation is completed before material is delivered to the police. I think so. The point is that the investigation explicitly states that there is not at all such good contact between the police and the NFI. So it is quite possible that the police need to get information faster than the NFI that is supplying it. The report also states that sometimes the police don't even know where to knock. So it will all be true that the investigations can be cut, but does the Minister agree that it is quite possible that investigations are delayed at the moment because there are insufficient agreements between the police and the NFI, and so it is possible that information is not provided and that detection is delayed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u78	Mrs Buitenweg rightly referred to the comments made in the report on cooperation between NFI, police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. This could very well be a reason why a procedure that is possible in itself is not known or has not been brought to the attention of the police or the public prosecutor. I also indicated for a reason that in the task force with which I want to work and with which I will also make the vision for the future, the Public Prosecutor and the police have an important role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u79	I have another question about the implementation of the motion in which the government was asked to identify the real need for trace research. That motion was adopted in September 2016 and the investigation has yet to begin. It starts in June. That is, of course, extremely late. I can't change that now, but I do ask why it took so long. After all, it is an important investigation. Can the Minister undertake to inform the National Police and the Public Prosecutor in the very near future what the picture of the NFI is? I'm asking him to just talk to the people. What's their vision on the NFI? What do they need? What is the need of the chain partners for capacity at the NFI? So we can start answering those important questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u80	I'll admit it immediately. That also fits well with the task force with the chain partners, which I have announced. I really need to check what happened between the time of adoption of the motion and the start of the investigation. This reply is therefore also given to the Court in second time or in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u81	Thank you for that initial commitment. I would just like to ask whether it is true, in fact, that message has reached me that there is a letter from the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Dutch Forensic Institute only a few months ago, in which the NFI is called unreliable by the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I imagine the Minister doesn't know that by heart. That's why I'm asking him to check it out. If so, I'll ask him if we can get access to that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u82	I am glad that Mr Van Nispen gives me a chance to check this out, because here too I am responsible for many letters, but not all of them personally. I'll check this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u83	Mr Van Nispen's request was to get this back in a letter, if I recall correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u84	I'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u85	In the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u86	I can't guarantee that right now. Looking for that letter now seems careless to me. For the other two questions, I'm gonna see how far I get and the Chamber gets information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u87	Fine. Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I see that there is a need for a second term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u88	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch Forensic Institute, the Dutch CSI, is extremely important for the criminal justice chain, for the detection and prosecution of criminals, as a knowledge institute and as an innovation. That is why it is a pity that the Ministry has allowed this to happen, partly because of irresponsible austerity in times when more trace research was needed and cases became more complex. I felt that the Minister went through the dust somewhat in his look back. He at least pulled the fine dress on.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But that doesn't solve the problems. It is a good thing that the Minister is getting on with the proposals and that he is going to respond to the plan presented by the SP today, but I still have a few motions to make. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is uncertainty as to the role and mission of the Dutch Forensic Institute and the way in which the Ministry of Security and Justice implements it;]] [[calls on the Government to direct the NFI and the Court to report on a quarterly basis on the progress of the measures and improvements in the NFI and the role that the Minister of Security and Justice has or will have in doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the staff of the Netherlands Forensic Institute do not feel sufficiently heard, creating a breach of trust between the workplace and management;]] [[believes that staff should be given more control in order to restore the breach of trust and avoid a new gap between employees and managers;]] [[calls on the Government to give the staff of the NFI more control over the implementation of his daily work and the course of the organisation as a whole, and to report to the Chamber on its implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-705]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-706]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u89	Yeah, this is the very last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that technically more and more trace research is possible while the work of NFI staff is becoming increasingly complex;]] [[calls on the government to make additional funds available to the Dutch Forensic Institute for more trace research, allowing more criminals to be tracked down and prosecuted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-707]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u90	Well, let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your coulance, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u92	You're welcome. The next speaker is Mrs Helder from the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u93	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. The Minister said that, fortunately, there is expected to be an interim director in the short term and that, in consultation with that person, a response will follow the question of how many of the recommendations will be dealt with. That the Chamber can expect a response to that within six months, I await. I wonder what it will be: one or two people as director. It is my group's business, as long as it is done right. In this context, my group would still be worthy of six-monthly information, given the seriousness of the report and the duration of the structural problems. However, the Minister also said that he would come back to that. So I'm waiting for that, too. Those six months we can wait. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that at least there will be sufficient resources and capacity for the DNA related research in the Verdappen case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u94	Mr. Chairman. It is tempting to shoot at this place in a form of micromanagement if there are all kinds of problems in institutions and then ask for a report every week, every six months or every five months. However, you would wish this institution to be on its own feet, working well between staff and director. That is why I await the Minister's letter on the visitation committee; at least that is how I interpreted it. I would specifically ask the Minister to indicate who will report or advise on this visitation committee. I can even imagine that this is not up to the Chamber, but also to the people in the institute itself, to the staff or to the director. I think that the NFI should just get back on its feet, as it should, also in terms of culture. I have another question. The Minister has often talked about eggs in a basket. Furthermore, I now know from this minister that his budget is sacred to him. If the knowledge character of the institute is the main business and therefore production is in some cases transferred to other institutions, to other eggs in the basket, the question arises as to how that is financially possible. I assume there's a fixed budget for forensics. I can imagine that other institutions are still more expensive. Those were my two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u95	Mr. Chairman. My congratulations to Mrs Buitenweg on her maiden speech. The nice thing about that is that you always get a bit of a picture of the person behind the MP. In this case, you get a picture of her memberships. I'll take a look at what it was exactly. I thank the Minister for his answers to my questions. I am curious to know whether there will be a national protocol or not. or is in need of it in the eyes of the Minister. For if there were any difference between the regions in the first-line research, I would think that this would be extremely undesirable for detection and prosecution. I would like to thank the Minister for coming back to the case I submitted to him. It will be processed in a letter that we will receive in June/June. Finally, I would like to make one final comment. The Minister indicated that he sees room for other providers of forensic research. It is of the utmost importance that we can offer this with the highest quality and it cannot be ruled out that other than the NFI can do so. Does the Minister now limit that space to providers of the executive work, let me put it this way, or does he also see room for other than the NFI in the field of knowledge development? I ask this because I have heard the Minister specifically say that knowledge development remains central to the NFI. I have nothing against that, but I do not rule out the possibility of developing innovations other than the NFI. I wouldn't want to stop that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u96	Mr. Chairman. For my group, during this debate, it has become clear that there has been too much focus on management and production in recent years and that too little attention has been paid to quality and culture within the NFI. The Minister has taken the criticism to heart, according to his answers. I appreciate that. It is now necessary for the Minister to pay particular attention to the process of change that has been initiated and to ensure a clear vision of the future of the NFI. I therefore welcome the undertaking that he will work on this with the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office and that the Chamber will be informed accordingly. Finally, I have another point, namely leadership. I am also pleased that the Minister is going to examine with the interim manager whether it might be wise to split up the director's function. As a Member of Parliament, I do not feel the need to talk about it on the square millimeters, but I would appreciate it if we could have an insight into the weighing process and its outcome. This is what I wanted to leave it at. I would like to give Mr Van Nispen the remaining 30 seconds with retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u97	Look, it's gonna make us look good again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u98	Mr. Chairman. I do not feel that there is a great deal of disagreement in this Chamber on this subject, because I believe that all my fellow Members very much agree that it is a good thing that the problems in the report are being identified. In my view, there is a general feeling that the Ministry is aware that these problems need to be addressed. There will soon be a new director, which opens up all kinds of new possibilities. It is good that research has shown that the employees are actually committed to this cultural change. There will soon be a vision, which is now being prepared. It is very important that it is shared by the employees. However, I note that the Minister is prioritising this by saying that the NFI must be primarily a knowledge institute. Can the Minister explain how he sees it, even if you look more broadly at the whole of Europe? Does the NFI as a top knowledge institute restrict itself to the Netherlands or will it be part of a consortium? I find it very interesting that the Minister focuses on this, but then it might be good to hear a little more about which direction he is going in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u99	Mrs. Kuik will waive her second term. I note that the Minister can proceed immediately with his second term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u100	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen made three motions. The first motion, in part No. Invites the government to direct the NFI and report to the Chamber on a quarterly basis on the progress of the measures and improvements in the NFI and the role that the Minister of Security and Justice has or will have in this regard. I would ask Mr Van Nispen to change 'on a quarterly basis' to 'on a six-month basis'. Then I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber, but 'on a quarterly basis' requires a lot of the organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u101	Well, Mr Van Nispen, what do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u102	Normally, I am not much for progress reports, because they do not solve the problems in themselves, but we see that the Ministry has more or less abandoned the NFI in recent years. That is why I think it is so important in this case to be kept very regularly informed. In view of the Minister's attitude in this debate, he takes this seriously and I will therefore amend the motion. This has to do with confidence and the Minister's attitude that he will not wait six months to see how the NFI stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u103	It is good that you underline this, Mr Van Nispen. That means that in the motion in part No. 705 "every quarter" will be changed to "every six months."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u104	The Van Nispen motion (, 29279, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is uncertainty as to the role and mission of the Dutch Forensic Institute and the way in which the Ministry of Security and Justice implements it;]] [[calls on the Government to direct the NFI and the Court to report every six months on the progress of the measures and improvements in the NFI and the role that the Minister of Security and Justice has or will have in doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 705 (, 29279).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u105	Mr Van Nispen's second motion, No. 706, calls on the Government to give the staff of the NFI more control over the implementation of their daily work and to report the course of the entire organisation and the Chamber on its implementation. I find that complicated. As I said, participation is legally regulated; for the government more extensive than for the rest of society. This legal structure cannot be adapted for one government organisation. In addition, the report highlights the lack of communication. This motion is about control. In this wording, I must discourage it, because otherwise I would create legal inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u106	Mr Van Nispen would like to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u107	Now there is still the misunderstanding that I would like to change something about legal participation, but that is not what I am concerned about. This concerns the involvement of people in their daily work. The report refers to this culture, so this motion is in line with the proposals and measures mentioned in the report. I stress this because, in my view, one of the key problems was the lack of control in the implementation of daily work and that culture. That is what this is about and not about legal participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u108	Does that change your reaction, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u109	But then I'd like to see the motion modified. It really says "more control." Perhaps Mr Van Nispen can think about a text. I shall come back to it in writing before the votes. In Mr Nispen's third motion, in part No. 707, the government is asked to make an additional budget available to the Dutch Forensic Institute so that more trace research can be carried out to detect and prosecute more criminals. Mr Van Nispen knows me a bit by now, so I'm going to keep it short. Any motion asking for more budget and not indicating cover shall be discouraged as an uncovered motion. Mr Van Nispen asked me in the first term for a letter from 2016. Meanwhile, an e-mail message from the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police from October 2016 has been tracked down. Suspicion is, that's the same thing. In this, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police indeed express their concerns about delivery reliability, compliance with the agreements for 2017 and the consequences for the criminal justice chain. This letter fits in with the picture outlined in the report, namely that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police have not been sufficiently taken into account and that the NFI has not communicated sufficiently with these cooperation partners. That's one of the big tasks. So the letter is known. I have already indicated that I consider communication with these crucial customers to be one of the important tasks. As a result of Mr Van Nispen's question, I have looked into whether the works council has delivered an opinion on this report. My answer is that he didn't make a formal judgment is correct. However, both the managing director and the chairman of the works council were on the advisory committee for this investigation. I have promised Mrs Helder a half-yearly report. Fortunately, I was able to reassure her about the DNA investigation in the Verstappen case. I welcome Mr Van Dam's remark that the Chamber should be critical but should not turn to micromanagement, because then it will be difficult for organisations to operate. He asked to come back to the question of who the visitation committee will report to. I'll do that in the letter. Then I get to the eggs in the basket. I thought this was a classic Dutch or Chinese proverb. It is, of course, a matter of risk spreading, whether it is time of peak capacity or because there is something wrong with an organisation. You do want the police and the D.A. to continue to deport their investigations at a high-quality level. The financial side of this is that within the budget we make available for forensic research, some of it will go to the institutions that carry out that research. It is therefore not the case that the budget is increasing as a whole. Is that gonna make it more expensive? It does not seem to me to be a recommendation to the other institutions if they say that we can do it, but it is twice as expensive. Then we will say: what do you think we are going to do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u110	Mr Van Dam wants to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u111	Yes, combined with the Minister's comment on Nicky Verstappen's investigation. In this business you don't know in advance what volume comes towards you. I think that at the time the budget was written, it was not known that this huge research was coming. On the one hand, the Minister says: budget is budget and I stick to it. I understand that very well. On the other hand, he guarantees in the Chamber that the investigation of Nicky Verstappen, fortunately, can be financed. However, when research is outsourced to third parties, it is generally really more expensive than when the government does it itself. I therefore believe that this is at the expense of the pot from which other studies should be carried out. I want to hear from the Minister how this goes and whether this is at the expense of the NFI.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u112	It is of course with every budget that you determine the total amount with usually a subdivision but that you can always slide a bit in there. So within the available budgets we have found room to do the research-steps. I did not come to the Chamber with a proposal to amend the budget for that purpose. When it comes to making forensic investigations by the NFI or others, there will now and in the future be a total budget available. If this is outsourced to others, then part of that budget will go to the others at that time. This is, of course, a logical consequence of the fact that, within the framework of the quality and reliability of the research, you continue to look critically at where we can do it in the best way. Mr Van Oosten has asked whether I only have in mind providers of executive work or also those of knowledge development. I already indicated that this is one of the building blocks of the vision I'm coming back to the Chamber with. In advance, I wouldn't limit it. Mrs Buitenweg rightly pointed out that in Europe I understand her predilection but outside Europe there is also a world of other institutes of knowledge. It's always good to keep your eyes open. Scientific developments are eminently international, but whether it really makes sense to look further for both legs, i.e. both knowledge development and production work, I really want to come back to that, because the quality remains, of course, the touchstone on which this work is based. Mr Van Oosten's question on regional disparities. I pointed out that there will be a report from the task force's autopsy this summer. It will address the question of whether there is a need for a national protocol, which is the counterpart of the existence of regional differences. I am once again in the spirit of the debate which Mr Van Oosten referred to, in which research showed that there are different ways of dealing with it in different places. So that task force body will also address the question of whether there is a need for a national protocol. So that report will also come this summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u113	It is not the first time that we have discussed it, as the Minister rightly points out. Or do we hear that it might be useful and then take another year to make that happen? Because that would be a waste of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u114	I understand the question very well, but here too, I find it careless to set up a task force and then anticipate its findings. My natural tendency is to do the things that can quickly, also quickly. I will inform Mr Grothuizen and the rest of the Chamber about whether or not to split up the Director's office. Furthermore, his contribution reminded me of the slogan of a previous election campaign 'And now forward', and I agree with that. Mrs Buitenweg asked whether the vision I will be presenting is also shared by the staff. That is, of course, the ambition, but I cannot guarantee that this will be the case for every section. In the end, this also applies not only to the NFI, but also to the minister responsible for providing good public services. Employees are crucial to this. If they were just unhappy or sad, the trains wouldn't drive and the police wouldn't do their job. The other way around, it can't be that every step you take as a driver must always be carried by the employees. That goes for the NFI, but also for the NS and the police. Sometimes you just have to conclude that in the general interest you really have to take a particular measure or set a certain budget. So the ambition is there, but I would do my job badly if I were to say that I am only taking steps at the NFI or at other organisations for which I am responsible that always have the consent of the employees. In response to the question of whether we are also looking further at Europe, I said: yes, and we are also looking outside. It is also one of the questions I will put to the task force with the NFI customers. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u115	I would like to return to my motion on part No. 706. Although I think that control over people in the implementation of their work is a very nice Dutch word, I note that it is too much like legal participation for the Minister. In order to put an end to that misunderstanding, I am prepared to change the motion in such a way that I turn "more control" into "a bigger role." The operative part is then replaced by the following: invites the Government to give the staff of the NFI a greater role in completing its daily work and the course of the whole organisation, and to report to the Chamber on its implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u116	Thank you for this change. What does it mean for the Minister's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u117	It still looks ponderous, because this suggests that the problem would be that the employees have too small a role and that is really not how I read the report. You can make a two-fold remark about the employees: there is enormous respect for their involvement and expertise, but when it is said that there is insufficient communication, that is inevitably also about people. I cannot say that the issue of insufficient communication between or with the chain partners is resolved with the new wording. So I remain reluctant about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u118	I see that Mr Van Nispen is looking into his papers, but Mr Van Dam would also like to interrupt on this point. Maybe that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u119	Whether it helps, I don't know, but for the motion as it stands, you always can't or always can't comply with it. What I think is most essential is to see if I can get close to Mr Van Nispen's intention. I think we're all the most served by that. Perhaps after this session I should take a look with Mr Van Nispen to see if the motion can be modified in this respect, so that, in particular, when recruiting a new director, the admissibility to give the staff a role can play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u120	I do not want to provoke a whole debate on the precise wording of the motion. I may have done that a little bit. I would like to give Mr Van Oosten the opportunity to respond briefly. I would like to say to Mr Van Nispen that it might be a good idea to hold the motion and discuss it with a number of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u121	It is up to Mr Van Nispen to hold the motion or not. In his earlier assessment of the motion, whatever words are used, the Minister indicated another element which I believe is relevant. We are talking about a government organization here. I would find it a little strange if different interpretations were given to the way in which management members are appointed at different government institutions. I keep finding that weird. Whether it's about a bigger role or more control, it's ultimately part of the government. I believe that all members of the board are appointed in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u122	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u123	This is separate from the appointment procedure of that new director. I explicitly did not include that in the motion. With my motion, I simply join page 40 of the report. I would like to draw attention to one of the strong opinions of the researchers. They say that it is not so much about participation as it is about the involvement of NFIs in their own organisation, but also about making them play an active role in determining the direction of the organisation and in establishing decision-making. That's what I mean by this motion. I therefore agree with the report. And since I think that is a crucial part and want to make sure that the Minister is going to involve that in his plans, I have tabled a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u124	Okay, that's the background to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u125	If the wording of the motion were in line with this text, I could embrace the motion. With all due respect, this text speaks of a wider involvement of the NFIs in their own organisation. I said for a reason that the report contains a lot of praise but also a little criticism of at least the way employees deal with each other. So in this way, as the text has been formulated here, I could embrace the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u126	I'll make the motion in part no. Change 706 so that I can join the report as literally as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u127	Then I will give a written opinion on the final version.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u128	That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-15.u129	This brings us to the end of the debate. Vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I thank the people who have followed the debate and I thank the Minister, his staff and the Members of Parliament.
