ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the Upper Chamber. I have also welcomed the Minister of Defence to the First Chamber. It indicated that it would be present in the Chamber at least during the first period of consideration of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u2	Madam President. The right to security speaks for itself in such a way that it is not in our Constitution. Leave your kids safe at school. Go to a festival safely with friends. Safely pray in the mosque. Security is one of the foundations of our society, which is changing so quickly. How do we deal with that, and how far do we go? Should the AIVD (General Intelligence and Security Service) be able to read everyone's WhatsApp messages to prevent any attacks, or are we just going for privacy and taking the risk of terror for granted? The CDA Group stands for the safety of all Dutch, as well as the rights of the individual. My group has also looked at this bill, which deals with the powers and supervision of our security services. First of all, the powers. The Intelligence and Security Services Act 2002 dates back to the pre-iPhone era. So no one will be surprised that a review is needed. It is clear that data traffic via cable can now be investigated with a specific research assignment. Crucial questions are the following. Under what conditions can they be tapped? How is information selected? How long will data be stored? When can data be destroyed? On all these questions, my group believes that the legislative proposal is satisfactory. Before tapping, the Minister gives permission. In doing so, it is controlled by the TIB. The tapping goes according to the "select while you collect" principle, which means that the Minister expects up to 98% of the data to be destroyed at the beginning of the process. In order to protect our privacy, that undestructed data is kept for three years has led to great criticism by the Council of State, the House of Representatives and not to mention society. Every hour the messages roll in on our iPhones. My group sympathizes, understands this criticism and, at the same time, sees that it is essential for effective historical data analyses of the AIVD and the STIVD (Military Intelligence and Security Service) to ensure that the retention period is not too short. We are facing a real dilemma here, a balance of great interests. How do we fight organised crime, the undermining of our rule of law, and how do we prevent terrorist attacks versus how does the government protect the privacy of innocent citizens? The retention period is limited in the legislative proposal. Unexplored data will be deleted after three years. Encrypted data may be stored for up to three years to decrypt it. It therefore gives my group confidence that the Minister expects less than one promille of the dates to be kept at the end of the process. Through these safeguards, the CDA Group has found a good balance between effectiveness and privacy, between protecting citizens' privacy and protecting citizens from terrorist attacks. Then there is the system of supervision. The existence of the security services is not under discussion. The Netherlands has two highly professional and internationally respected organisations. It is important, however, that supervision should also be extended with the extension of the powers of the services. The CDA agrees with the system whereby the TIB ex ante reviews the Minister's decision and controls the CTIVD during and afterwards. My group attaches great importance to the Minister's commitment to maintaining ministerial responsibility. She would like to hear from the Minister here today a tightening up of his written reply. After all, does my group agree that the TIB can still reject a renewed request from the Minister to tap, for example? In the case of repeated rejection, what is still worth the ministerial responsibility versus the binding opinion? In my group's view, the other questions we asked in response to the CTIVD's letter on the four thresholds for supervision have been adequately answered. We agree with the Minister's statement that the TIB and the CTIVD have the explicit task of promoting the legal unit. In addition, the Minister has clearly explained that there is no supervisory gap, because the CTIVD can also make an unlawful assessment of the TIB test. We also believe that the two-year transitional period for the system of sharing with foreign services is sufficiently justified. The supervisory threshold, which would be too broadly defined, has been clearly refuted by the Minister. My group also welcomes the choice not to deal with complaints with the National Ombudsman, but with a separate section of the CTIVD. However, we are in favour of creating strong Chinese walls in the workplace, so that the impartiality of the complaint process is truly guaranteed. The present bill is a complex system, with on paper the correct checks-and-balances. As the system does not only have to work on paper, the CDA attaches great importance to the evaluation which will take place within two years of the entry into force of the law. We therefore welcome the Minister's commitment to include in the evaluation the subject of "temporarily and correctly destroying data" and to have an independent auditor check it. For us, it is important that there is a proper balance between the effectiveness of services and the monitoring of their actions. In my group's view, this balance has been found in the legislative proposal. So there is still the issue of ministerial responsibility for the CDA Group. We look forward to the response of the rulers in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. As early as December 2013, the Dessens Commission found that the current Act on the Intelligence and Security Services, the Wiv 2002, was outdated and needed to be amended. After all, the Wiv 2002 was drawn up at the end of the 1990s and the legislator did not foresee the impact of current technological and social developments. A good example of the unprecedented flight of technology is the fact that in 2002 there were only 600 million Internet users. At present, there are 3.2 billion. At the end of the 1990s most of the data flows still went via the ether, but now 90% of all data flows go via cable networks. Under the current law, intelligence and security services may perform targeted interception of data passing through the ether, as well as of data transmitted by cable. However, unfocused interception is allowed under the current law only of data going through the ether. Thus, the services currently have no power to intercept and analyse unfocused cable-linked data flows. I note that the term "unfocused interception" is misleading, because also unfocused interception is indeed aimed at specific data flows that should fit within the research assignment. That is why the proposal before us refers to research-oriented interception. In view of the fact that 90% of all data is transmitted over the cable, our security services have therefore largely gone blind and deaf. After all, existing but not known communication, of known but certainly also of unknown "targets," remains hidden from the services. In these turbulent times, it is irresponsible for our services to do their job. Indeed, today's technology enables both states and non-state actors to carry out cyber attacks on our high-tech companies, vital infrastructure and vital public sectors. This is happening on a large scale at the moment. The massive cyber attacks on Sunday 14 May, in which 140 countries were hit, and the cyber attack on 27 June have once again put our noses on the facts. The terrible attacks in Brussels, Paris, Manchester, London and so on are still fresh in our minds. The replacement of the Wiv 2002 is therefore urgently needed. The present bill is intended for this purpose. The legislative proposal has rightly been formulated independently of technology in view of the rapid development of technology. Our neighbouring countries, with which our services work intensively, have also, for the same reasons, brought into force technical independent legislation for their security services. To ensure that the use of powers is lawful at all times, there are strong safeguards in the law to guarantee our fundamental rights, including the right to privacy. The monitoring of services has therefore been increased. Although the need to renew the Wiv is widely borne, finding the right balance between, on the one hand, the government's responsibility to guarantee the security of the State and thus the security of citizens in these turbulent times and, on the other hand, the responsibility of the government to protect the privacy of those same citizens is a delicate matter. That task requires great care. The government certainly did not go ice-cream over one night in the drafting of this bill. After an extensive internet consultation, after the government, the Council of State and the House of Representatives have done their work and after answering the questions asked by this Chamber during the preliminary investigation, there is more than enough information to make an assessment of this bill. However, there are still a number of aspects which are not sufficiently clear to my group or which we are questioning. What keeps on sanding us is the fact that the judgment of the Review Committee on Bet Powers, abbreviated the TIB, is binding on both the Minister and the CTIVD and in fact there is no appeal against a decision of the TIB whether or not to use a power. No matter how you turn it, this is a violation of the ministerial responsibility as we know it in the Netherlands. After all, it is the minister who has to answer to Parliament and not the TIB. The members of the TIB were not elected but appointed. The question arises as to whether this restriction of ministerial responsibility is not contrary to the Constitution. The Minister's argument that this is not the case because the Minister has and holds the power to come up with a new decision in the event that the TIB does not approve the use of a power, we find a little lean. In the event of a negative opinion of the TIB, in nine out of ten cases a modified wording of the request to use a power will provide a solution, so that the TIB can agree, as we can see. But we also have to face, especially in this Chamber, the possibility that the Minister fundamentally disagrees and remains with the TIB. What happens then? The TIB is not a court. This is at the heart of our discontent with the TIB in the proposed form: a non-democratically elected body that makes decisions against which no appeal is possible. However, we also have many other questions about the usefulness, necessity and working methods of the TIB. According to the bill, the TIB is provided with the necessary information to make a judgment, but has no access to the systems of the services and no knowledge and insight into the implementation practice. However, the opinion of the TIB is binding, also for the CTIVD. What happens if, for example, the CTIVD subsequently concludes that the justification of the decision to use a power was insufficient? Or is it true that the CTIVD is not allowed to make such a judgment? If the CTIVD is allowed to do that, then what happens? Will all the information collected be destroyed? The age-old problem, who will guard the guards? The TIB is in unveiled form: who controls the TIB? Additional questions are: what guarantees are there that the members of the TIB really understand the intelligence work? How are they selected? Doesn't the bureaucracy involved in the introduction of the TIB constitute an additional barrier to intelligence work, hindering services from responding adequately to developments at this time when the only constant factor seems to be that everything changes constantly and rapidly? For the sake of clarity, we are not opposed to an ex ante review, but despite the Minister's comprehensive response to our written questions, there is still much unclear as far as we are concerned with the TIB. Anyway, there's no point in repeating moves. After all, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. In our opinion, it is therefore better to see whether and how the TIB works in practice. We therefore ask the Minister to undertake a thorough review of the functioning of the TIB, including the constitutional construction, after two years. Perhaps it is an idea to link the evaluation of the TIB to the evaluation of the retention period of metadata, which the Minister, following the Recourt motion in the Lower House (34588, no. 56), has already been promised. The word "preservation period" has been dropped. We also have a comment and a question about that. Data collected through the exercise of the competence of research mission-oriented tapping shall be subject to a retention period of not more than three years after the acquisition or cancellation of the encryption. Any information which has not been searched for their relevance shall immediately be destroyed at the end of this period (Article 48 (5)). Some believe that this period is too long from the point of view of protection of privacy and responsible data restriction. Others believe, on the contrary, that this period is too short, because the detection and tracking of dormant cells and complex underground terrorist networks by the AIVD often extends over decades and because military operations in conflict areas often last longer than three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u4	Can Mr Van Kappen tell me who those "others" are? I have not heard the view that this retention period of three years is too short from the many speakers. Or is that "other" perhaps his own group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u5	I think you've dealt with other speakers than me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u6	That is possible if certain speakers only turn to you. Among the speakers who have turned to the whole Chamber, there was none who would like to extend the retention period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u7	I've noticed that, too. I have also noticed that there has been some sort of Internet campaign, with a flood of messages addressed to all Members who speak about the Wiv. I noticed that too, and there were few responses that asked for a longer period of time. But I'm asking for it. I'm getting back on track. In my group's view, therefore, the three-year period has been arbitrary and undoubtedly the result of a compromise; it is not mathematics. The motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities (34588, No. 56) calls on the Government to "transfer the request of the Lower House to the CTIVD to report, within two years of the entry into force of this Act, on how the three-year retention period relates to the protection of privacy, including the question of whether the interception of data is as targeted as possible and whether the retention period and the data retained are necessary for the proper performance of the services." As far as the latter is concerned, we also assume that it will be considered whether, in certain cases, where there is an effort by the services which, by definition, extends over a longer period than three years, the retention period is not too short for the proper performance of the services. Can the Minister undertake to do so? One point we also have our doubts about is the financing of the two committees of inquiry and the implementation of the new powers. An additional budget of EUR 20 million has been allocated for implementation and EUR 1 million for the TIB and the CTIVD. The budget of EUR 1 million for the financing of the TIB and the CTIVD is due to the Schouten motion (34588, No. 57), but this only underlines our concern that the current budget of EUR 20 million for implementation is also too tight. The research mission-oriented acquisition of cable-based data and the necessary equipment and the development of the necessary automated data processing processes are not only costly and technical complex, but also require organisational adjustments of the services. On the basis of information from open sources, we believe that the necessary financial resources will be around EUR 150 million and perhaps even more. The difference with the budget allocated of EUR 20 million is very large. What we want to avoid is that we will soon be faced with foreseeable budget overruns that will have to be settled ad hocly. We are therefore wondering what is the basis for the budgeted amount of EUR 20 million. I would like an answer from the Minister to this question. Then we have a question about the so-called weighting notes. In order to weigh responsibly whether a foreign service is eligible for cooperation, the services must make a "weighting note." As a result of the delays in this area, Article 166 of the Act includes a piece of transitional law which states that the weighting notes will not be required for two years. The two-year term is strange to us. In the past, the services also had to consider whether or not to cooperate responsibly with a foreign service. I thought you said the data was wide-ranging. Why does all this have to take so long? I mean, it's gotta be a lot faster than that, right? What is the reason for this very broad transitional period? I would like an answer from the Minister to this question. As a result, we wonder how the cooperation of services within the Kingdom is now regulated. I am referring here to the cooperation of the Dutch services and the security services of the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom. We have already asked a question about this in the written preparation, but we are not entirely satisfied with the answer. We are aware that this is an autonomous competence of the countries and we also understand that a weighting note is not desirable for all kinds of reasons for the countries within the Kingdom. The fact that the services work together on an ad hoc basis will undoubtedly be the case, but isn't that a bit thin in these times? Is it not time for more structural cooperation? In our view, the model of a so-called intelligence fusion centre could provide for this more structural cooperation. This structure provides a platform in which the services within the Kingdom can identify their information and information needs, and then consider to what extent one can support one another in doing so. Can the Minister reflect on this idea? Then I have a specific question for the Secretary of Defense. Cyberspace is now rightly seen as the fifth domain for the military, next to the sea, land, air and space. Almost three years ago, the Defense Cyber Commando, the DCC, was established to perform offensive cyberspace operations. Repeat, offensive operations. The DCC will soon be declared operational. Breaking into, spying and placing malware in other people's networks is necessary to successfully perform offensive cyber operations. The problem my group sees is that breaking into and spying on other people's networks by the DCC is not allowed outside of wartime or without a specific mandate. This is reserved for the Joint Sigint Cyber Unit of the STIVD and the AIVD, which is part of the operation of the Wiv. However, operations of the DCC are not subject to the operation of the Wiv and are also subject to the applicable political decision-making procedures for military operations with the associated parliamentary information provision; therefore, careful but slow and therefore not a recipe for success in the cyber domain. Does the Secretary of Defense agree with us? If so, is there any possibility of unlocking the DCC's capacity for the benefit of the services, using this capacity under the operation of the Wiv and under the direction and responsibility of the STUDY? If the Minister does not agree with us, we would like to hear an explanation from her: where is the error in our reasoning? Our final point concerns the cooperation of the services with other bodies responsible for the detection of criminal offences. For example, Article 60 of the current Wiv gives designated officials to the police, the KMar and the Tax Administration Intelligence Service, which arose after the merger of the ECD and the FIOD, the power to carry out activities for the benefit of the AIVD. These officials are often referred to as "Article 60 officials." In the present legislative proposal, Article 60 is replaced by Article 79. One problem in the recent past was that, in addition to their work for the AIVD and the STIVD, staff of the Regional Intelligence Services of the police, the so-called RIDs, were also responsible for collecting information in the context of public policy. The latter happened not under the responsibility of the Minister of State, but under the responsibility of the various mayors. The work of a police officer as an employee of the AIVD on the one hand and as an official of a regional police force on the other hand was not always well defined. It seems that the introduction of national police in 2013 solved the problem of double hats at the RIDs. The overview of the division of the regional units of the police shows that there are now separate teams involved in gathering information in the context of maintaining public order and that the RIDs have been renamed RIDs-Wiv. That is the end of the problem of the double hat in the police investigation services. As a result, however, we wonder whether the problem of the double hat at the KMar and the Tax Office has also been solved. I would like an answer from the Minister to this question. I'm rounding up. On balance, the VVD Group considers that this bill has struck an acceptable balance between, on the one hand, the importance of state security and, on the other hand, the necessary state guarantees. However, we expect a clear answer from the Minister to our questions and suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is intended to replace the Act on the Intelligence and Security Services 2002, the Wiv 2002, with a view to modernising the powers of the intelligence and security services and redesigning the supervisory system. An important core task of the government is to guarantee a safe country in which freedom can be lived and the democratic rule of law is guaranteed. Intelligence and security services are necessary in the context of this core task of government. The services shall carry out research into organisations and persons likely to pose a threat to national and/or international security. In this way, services protect the democratic rule of law and contribute to guaranteeing the fundamental rights of citizens. In order to be effective in identifying dangerous organisations and individuals, the examination of services in general should, at least in many cases, be conducted secretly without the knowledge of those involved. The extent of these secretly exercised powers must correspond to the real risks faced today by Dutch society and its associated international legal order. These risks have increased considerably in recent years. These include terrorist threats, cybercrime threats and security risks associated with the many global fires and destabilisation at the borders of Europe. Technological and societal developments, such as the rapid emergence and global spread of digital technology and the Internet, have far-reaching consequences. According to the government, these developments and the threat picture outlined call for the modernisation and extension of the powers of the intelligence and security services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u9	At the same time, the extension of far-reaching powers of the services increases the inherent tension between, on the one hand, the democratic rule of law and the fundamental rights protected by it and, on the other hand, the existence and functioning of the intelligence and security services. Information and security services can, by using their far-reaching powers, make far-reaching violations of the fundamental rights of citizens. A balance must therefore be struck between, on the one hand, the powers of the intelligence and security services and, on the other, the safeguarding of fundamental rights, including targeted supervision. Extending the powers of AIVD and STIVD should be accompanied by strengthening the safeguards of fundamental rights. The most striking part of this bill is the possibility of unfocused interception of cable-based telecommunications. This means that AIVD and STUDY can acquire, process and analyse telecommunications if they are looking for persons, organisations and threats, but cannot or cannot be targeted by insufficient knowledge. This can only be done with pre-agreed research orders. In the context of this bill, unfocused interception is referred to as research-oriented interception. On the other hand, the control of services is also strengthened. There's gonna be a review committee on deployment powers. That is an independent committee consisting of three members. The TIB will review the authorisation granted by the Minister for the exercise of certain special powers for legality prior to the effective exercise of that power. If the TIB finds that the consent has not been lawfully granted, the consent shall automatically lapse. This is therefore a binding legality test. In addition, citizens have the possibility to complain about the conduct of the AIVD and/or the STUDY. Citizens who do so will receive a binding ruling from the CTIVD in the proposed system. The Minister is therefore obliged to follow the opinion of the CTIVD. In the current Act, the Wiv 2002, interception powers are formulated according to technique. A distinction has been made between ether-based communication, which allows unfocused interception, and cable communication, where unfocused interception is not allowed. As part of the review of the Wiv 2002 in 2013, the Dessens Committee pointed out that this distinction no longer conflicts with the rapidly evolving technological developments in data traffic and communication. The PvdA Group considers the removal of this distinction to be understandable and legitimate in itself. However, conferring powers, such as unfocused interception, require adequate safeguards and effective supervision. As part of the preparatory study, the PvdA Group asked the government a number of questions concerning the proposed safeguards and the proposed monitoring. The answers received from the government are enlightening and sufficient in various respects, but unfortunately this does not apply to all the answers. A few times I really got the impression of being sent in the reeds with a brat. That is a pity, but the Minister has a second chance today! First, however, I have a question of a more technical nature, which I have not raised before. The PvdA fraction wonders whether a possible physical breach of the cable is made when tapping the cable, which could create vulnerabilities which could in turn be abused by malicious third parties. A subject on which we have already asked written questions is the responsible data limitation and the related test on relevance. In response, the government has explained that the test on relevance to research assignment-oriented interception takes place in a different way than with targeted interception. Targets have already been identified in targeted interception, while research assignment-oriented interception also focuses on identifying networks and unprecedented threats and thus on unidentified targets. Targeted interception should provide data on and from the specific target, after which the relevance per data obtained can be determined. On the other hand, research-focused interception results in a broader dataset. The relevance of data in that dataset is determined by the combination of determining the specific data flow, negative and positive filtering as well as the selection of data. However, if the selection does not provide any relevant information, it must be immediately destroyed in accordance with Article 48 (5) of the legislative proposal. Data that have not been examined for their relevance should be destroyed at the end of a three-year period. The CTIVD has pointed out that the foregoing means that all selected data can be retained and used during research assignments, without any substantive assessment being based on actual relevance. The CTIVD considers this problematic for two reasons. The first reason is that this leads to a difference in data destruction safeguards compared to the regime for the use of targeted powers and thus to the extent of legal protection for citizens. The second reason, according to the CTIVD, is that effective supervision stands in the way. On behalf of my group, I would ask the Minister to address these concerns raised by the CTIVD. In the preliminary study, we also asked whether it was true that services may retain metadata if they are not excluded on the basis of negative filtering, without positive filtering and selection being applied. The Government's reply was that this is indeed the case and that the metadata obtained from the exercise of research assignment-oriented interception that remain after negative filtering may be kept for a maximum of three years. But a little further down in the answer is to read, I quote: "By combining the determination of the specific data flow, negative and positive filtering, and finally the selection of data, it is ensured that there is no widespread breach of the privacy of individuals who are not themselves subject to investigation. Metadata and content data are subject to the same standards and therefore there is no lower selection standard for metadata." Without further explanation, I cannot reconcile the last part of the answer with the first part of the answer. The Minister is therefore asked to explain exactly what this is about. And in case his answer is that metadata may be retained if it is not excluded on the basis of negative filtering, so without positive filtering and selection, I ask the Minister why this difference between metadata and data on the content of the communication is made. In this case, I would also like to hear from the Minister how it is not possible to keep metadata from large groups of innocent citizens if only negative filters are made before the metadata can be kept. The PvdA Group also has a follow-up question on the proposed Article 39, which regulates the competence of the services to contact public authorities, businesses and other third parties with a request for real-time and automated access to the data files of the third party concerned. In the further reply, the Government states that the competence of Article 39 concerns the questioning of information already held by third parties, although those data have been collected for another purpose. According to the government, the questioning of data files with third parties is therefore a matter of urgency! (b) define as a less substantial means than when such data are collected through the use of a special competence. The PvdA Group asks the Minister to explain why this is a less significant means for the person to whom these data relate, which does not need to be subject to the additional safeguards that apply to the use of special powers. Mr President, as the last part of my initial contribution, I would like to refer to the proposed Review Committee on Budgetary Powers, which should provide an important guarantee against the extension of the powers of the departments. The PvdA Group welcomes the heavy appointment procedure contained in Article 33 in conjunction with Article 99 of the legislative proposal. We have less view of the actual embedding of the TIB. Is the TIB housed with or in the vicinity of the CTIVD, or with another supervisory authority? We would like to get a better idea of the actual circumstances under which the TIB should do its important work. On behalf of my group, I have also tried, by asking written questions, to understand how the TIB, consisting of relative outsiders and with very limited substantive support, is able, according to the response, to assess the need, proportionality and subsidiarity of the use of special powers in the context of potentially large-scale, abstract and technically complex operations in such a way that it can actually fulfil the role assigned to it in the legislative proposal. The Government's answers have hardly helped me to do so. In particular, the further statement of reply highlighted what was wrong in the wording of my question, which, moreover, was in line with the wording of the Advisory Section of the Council of State, and set out in particular what was not part of the task of the TIB, and repeated several times that the legal role of the TIB was to assess legality, namely an authorisation granted by the Minister for the exercise of a special competence prior to its effective exercise. At the heart of my question, namely whether the TIB has been sufficiently equipped to fulfil its role properly and thus to be the guarantee it is supposed to be, the government has not entered into. I ask the Minister to do so today. We look forward to the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. The average age of the members of our Chamber is 67 years. A typical senator thus began his working life in the eighties, a time when the internet was a strange and unknown word and the first mobile phone, for the fans the Dynatac 8000X, which came on the market in 1983, was a quit for a little 4,000 dollars. How different is it now? A day without the internet is almost unlived and nowadays the mobile phone with camera and other ingenuities does not weigh us. Anno 2017 has completely transformed our way of working and communicating. The digital revolution fundamentally changes our way of doing and thinking. The pace of technological developments in the field of communication is merciless. Partly for this reason, we adopted a revision of Article 13 of the Constitution in the first period less than an hour ago, namely immunity, etc. respect for the confidentiality of letters in a future-proof formulation. And with that, we did something else. This Chamber agreed that Article 13 should introduce the concept of "national security" and that, in that case, we should no longer abolish the overall level of protection solely through the courts, but by underlying law. "Let the judge test everything would be a lot of work," said the minister last week. The legislative proposal now before us is not the least that the level of protection must be properly regulated. Additional reason to look closely at this and see if there is any proportionality. Are the means used by this law against the purpose of the law capable of modernising the powers of the security services? Premeditated, the GroenLinks Group understands and supports the need to renew the Wiv. The National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security Schoof recently found that the Netherlands lags a little further on internet criminals and hostile states in terms of digital security every year. Industry, too, rightly calls for greater commitment in the field of digital security. Recent digital attacks remind us of the huge growth in the ransomware, malware that locks your computer and only unlocks it again when you pay money. Dutch companies, like others, have also been hit hard. Thanks, by the way, to the NSA, who left backdoors open that criminal hackers are grateful to use. In particular, the continuing risk of terrorist attacks requires an active and strong security policy, in the streets, in the neighbourhoods, in the police, and certainly in the digital world. The explanatory memorandum to this Act shall establish the balance between the modernisation of powers and the fundamental guarantees of law. In the words of my group, do we not take measures to protect our freedoms guaranteed by our rule of law that restrict our freedoms and the rule of law? In particular, as far as my group is concerned, it is a question of whether the tasks, powers and responsibilities of the AIVD and the STIVD are precisely laid down in the law and that there is sufficient guarantees for individual privacy. This requires a complex but crucial balance between freedom and security. My group still has doubts as to whether this is the case. The Council of State, the Personal Data Authority, the Commission for the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services itself, the College of Human Rights, the Court of Justice, the Council of Europe, numerous civil society organisations in the field of digital privacy, in the field of journalistic source protection and in the field of medical professional secrecy, have made strong comments. However, the number of adjustments based on the critical comments remained limited. One of the most important legal changes is to allow bulk interception, with a towing network going through the data traffic to see if that provides information. It is as if in former times the BVD opens up all the mail that is sent to Brussels-South from, say, Amsterdam-North, because you never know if there is anything in between. Soon the security services will be able to open up a bunch of digital letters and filter out suspicious signals with or without smart algorithms. For example, this allows the AIVD to monitor what is happening within the internet between the Netherlands and Syria. However, in collecting this data, the service also encounters a very large number of personal data that have no connection to a criminal case and data of citizens who have nothing at all to do with any criminal investigation. Those algorithms can easily lead to unnecessary or illogical conclusions. A doctor who e-mails his patient a few times about whether or not to admit to an addiction clinic with a cc to the clinic in question. On the basis of metadata alone, security services have a medical record that does not belong there. At my home, for example, we are members of Amnesty. Coincidentally, we know a few people who work there. We are also a member of the Animal Protection Committee in order to keep the balance. So we sometimes e-mail back and forth about successful actions to get someone off or just privately about a week's vacation in Istanbul. Then we warn each other about burning in the hot sun or strikes at the airport or the long queues at the security at Schiphol. That combination of keywords in the towing network, such as Amnesty, action, security, Istanbul, burning and strikes, in the hands of NATO's security service partner Turkey, can lead to very different conclusions than you and I would like, especially since this bill does not prevent a foreign security service from making its own evaluation of data. Dragnet power or, in the Minister's words, investigative interception is one of the most important changes introduced by the law. It is therefore important to clarify what is and is not allowed and under what conditions and what safeguards there are to ensure that medical professional secrecy is not violated, that lawyers can communicate confidentially with their clients, that journalists can continue to protect their sources, and that it is clear when or not these data can be shared with foreign security services and what they can do with them or not. The complex way in which supervision is regulated raises questions for my group. Effective supervision is crucial. The legislative proposal provides for a system whereby, in principle, all decisions on the use of special resources are examined in advance. In specific cases, such as journalists and lawyers, this is done by an independent judge and mostly by the new review committee, the TIB, on which Mrs Beuving has asked a number of questions that I will not repeat now. For my group, the reason why this key task was not simply invested in the existing CTIVD remains unclear. We would like to hear that again clearly explained by the Minister. The role of the CTIVD is now mainly ex post and on the basis of complaint handling. For example, as the CTIVD itself stated, the legislator introduced a layered and complex system by bringing scrutiny, supervision and complaint handling to separate bodies. A comparison with last week's debate occurred to me, and the cabinet doesn't even know how to proceed with the supervision of construction, but that aside. What does the Minister intend to do with this more complex form of supervision? The brightness is not fed by the manner of reporting by the authorities. The reviews that have been submitted to the court remain, if we understand correctly, always confidential. TIB and CTIVD only report to parliament through the Minister. This leads to a number of additional questions. Why does the Minister opt for greater complexity in supervision? Why doesn't he keep that tight, strict and simple? Why is the judicial test only dealt with in a few cases, as in the case of lawyers and journalists? Like last week's debate on Article 13, I refer once again to the case law of the European Court of Justice of November 2012, where the Court actually says that if the violation of the rights of individuals is easily possible and the consequences can be violent, the judge should, in principle, be watching. I would now like to receive a concrete response from the Minister. The CTIVD has on several occasions expressed concern as to whether it has sufficient resources to carry out its tasks. Is the Minister prepared to discuss finance and, if not, to come forward with an accelerated evaluation to see if the tasks can be carried out with the existing occupation? Is the Minister also prepared to send a sufficiently transparent, independent and complete system of reporting to the Chambers without delay, possibly confidentially, in order to give the Chambers an insight into the functioning of the supervision after the law enters into force? The new technology-independent formulation of interception was also a reason for a series of questions in the written examination. The CTIVD argued that the collection and analysis of data should be selective, targeted and with care. It is important that irrelevant data are immediately deleted, the so-called by-catch. From the Minister's answers, I would point out that he believes that the "select while you collect" trading method is already firmly anchored in the law. GroenLinks also has her questions. Is there enough digital support, for example, and is there sufficient supervision to achieve this? Will the services not, unless there is a strong guarantee in the law, always be inclined to keep data for the sake of security, because there is always a small chance that they will prove relevant in the near future? Ordinary people want security, but also the guarantee that they can unhinderedly send their e-mails, texts and whatsapps, without the government watching unnecessarily often and unnecessarily much over their shoulders. The work the security services are doing is a great asset. If they are able to continue to do this work with the confidence of society that this is done expertly, purposefully and under good legal guarantees, this can only strengthen their position. However, in the social debate we see concern and erosion of acceptance on this point. That's why I'm gonna put a few more points under the magnifying glass. The Minister stated, inter alia, in the response to the Court, that three factors are considered for determining the seriousness of the privacy breach: whether the infringement concerns the content of messages or metadata, the scale of data collection and how far the access system used is. In the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, this calls for a better definition of the criteria. Can the Minister explain once again how he evaluates in practice the impact of the scale of data collection? In his view, what methods of dilation are acceptable or not acceptable? According to the Minister, where is the border where a breach of privacy is no longer proportionate? If all the e-mails from a city district or neighborhood are intercepted? Or is that okay? If we look at everyone by the name of Jansen... I will deliberately but with a neutral name... If we intercept all communications from Russia because of a possible hacking hazard? According to the Minister, where is the limit of the permissible amount? Is that limit for content lower than for metadata? Does the technique used affect you? In the Lower House, the Minister said that according to the Cabinet, it is not likely that personal devices that people wear for medical reasons, for example, are being hacked, but that is not in the law. Why not? You can also formulate this technique independently. It is essential that these matters are clearly and unequivocally formulated, also in order to maximise the support for the security services. I'm going to go over the retention period briefly. That too has been mentioned before. Proposals to reduce this time limit to two or one year are rejected by the Minister, while countries such as the United Kingdom and Germany do not store unprocessed data for more than one six months or 90 days respectively. Why is the Minister so obstinate about this? How does the proposed retention period relate to the 2014 Court of Justice ruling on the Data Retention Directive? The Court of Justice concluded at the time that the retention obligation constitutes a disproportionate infringement of the right to privacy. In this context, the Telecommunications Data Conservation Act was considered to be contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, whereas the retention period in that law was only six months. What arguments can be used to legitimise this retention period? As far as we are concerned, this Chamber should not adopt a legislative proposal if there is reasonable doubt as to whether this is contrary to the decisions of the European Court of Justice. The retention period of data has also recently been discussed at European level. I refer to Minister Blok's letter on the JHA Council of 3 July 2017. Is there an opinion from the Council's Legal Service? Can the Minister confirm that? If so, can the Court receive that opinion, either in writing or orally, preferably today? Existing vulnerabilities in the digital system will sometimes be deliberately left open by the security services in order to gain access to certain data. We believe that these backdoors should be reported without further ado. Haven't we learned anything from the recent malware? The Minister speaks of a directive for this purpose. What is the status of this directive? What criteria will be included? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The use of our services to ensure the safety of Dutch people does not stop at national borders. It is also important for the Dutch services to cooperate with foreign secret services and to be able to exchange information in this context. However, this law also proposes to share unevaluated data in certain cases. This means that foreign services can then work with a complete set of data that has not been analysed by our security services. That is unacceptable to us. If this happens, it is completely unclear what a foreign service is doing with data from Dutch citizens, who have done nothing but accidentally find themselves in the wrong towing network. The consequences can be serious for people whose data are held by security services in countries where, for example, different views of sexuality prevail. According to the Minister, what certainty does this bill offer that data shared with foreign services have been assessed in advance for the impact on the position of Dutch citizens? I would just like to touch briefly on a few points. First of all, there is the guarantee of journalistic freedoms. Is the regulation in place in line with the requirements of the ECHR? And does those whistleblowers and journalists give enough space to share sensitive information with the media? To repeat my question from the Written Round: is the proposal now designed in such a way that an exception can only be made in cases where a judge considers that the importance of services outweighs the importance of source protection? I also have a point about the number recognition system. Has the consultation with the Dutch barristers already started? What is the state of play? I'll come to a conclusion. A legislative proposal that potentially interferes with the individual freedom of the Dutch citizen and is so important for national security requires clear agreements on when to tap on a large scale, for unambiguous supervision and a judicial test, to rule out unfiltered data from Dutch citizens just disappearing abroad. If that is not the case, then there will be unease and concern. There's too many of them now. In this way, we do not achieve the security objectives we want to achieve, nor the level of privacy and legal protection that citizens can count on. We are very curious about the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman. There is hardly any subject that is more difficult to assess for representatives of the people, especially the part-time version of it, than the necessary arsenal of powers that the intelligence and security services should have. If we had a deep distrust of our intelligence and security services, it would perhaps be rather clear, but there is no such mistrust. In recent decades, AIVD and STIVD have had a tradition of democratic embedding and constitutional sense of values, which generates more confidence than distrust. That's where appreciation goes for the successive service chiefs. The same applies to the prime ministers of the Interior, Defence and General Affairs. Nevertheless, we walk with a match in the dark. We do not know enough about the scale and nature of the threats to our security. For this, we should dive deeply into the information collected by the services, which we do not have access to. We are not sufficiently aware of the effectiveness of the application of the current powers, and we are therefore able to judge them with difficulty. We must leave this to the Commission of the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services and remotely to the Committee for the Intelligence and Security Services of the House of Representatives. I would also like to point out that the term 'committee secretly' is extremely unfortunate. Moreover, we are not at home enough in the technical aspects of acquiring, analysing, storing, deleting and destroying digital data. However, today we must assess a legislative proposal aimed at modernising the complex of powers of the intelligence and security services and at monitoring and monitoring their application. On the other hand, I would point out that a solid constitutional basis for the present legislative proposal is still lacking. Today, in the First Chamber, we only approved the modernisation of Article 13 of the Constitution at first reading. It is a difficult quest in the tension relationship that traditionally exists between the protection of national and international security on the one hand and the protection of privacy on the other. There is no doubt, I hope, that both interests are of great value to my group; one is not, under all conceivable circumstances, more protective than the other. It is precisely in this that the complexity of our consideration is: under what conditions can security and privacy balance, when does the situation justify that privacy can be restricted in order to ensure security and how far should this restriction go? And in what cases should public authorities and legislators stand up for privacy, even if this puts national security at a certain risk? There is no general answer to that, at least not for those who try to avoid platitudes or too short-sighted choices. There is the dilemma, which, moreover, is compounded by the fact that we are talking not only about what our own national services do with acquired data about people and their communication, but also about sharing this information with services from more and less friendly and more and less democratic states of law. Is the exchange of data with the United States of Trump as trustworthy for us as it is with the same country under Obama? Can NATO intelligence services still share information with President Erdogan's Turkey? In my contribution to some of the main topics, I focus on the acquisition and use of bulk data in the context of the so-called "research mission-oriented" data collection, cooperation with foreign services and the proposed review and monitoring system, including the right of complaint. The major difference from the law of 2002 is the extension of the powers of the intelligence and security services, which were previously able to tap large flows of information via the ether, but only to use targeted interception over the cable. Now it is also possible to tap bulk communication over Internet cables. The primary criterion described by law is that the tapping of internet cables should only take place "research-oriented," not outside the research assignment. However, this in itself does not rule out the fact that large amounts of data are collected as part of the research mission and that this can also be of long duration. Nor does this rule out the possibility that, under circumstances, an entire neighborhood or neighborhood can be tapped because there are indications that there is a potential terrorist or spy there. "Research-oriented" can quickly become unfocused and take the form of what is referred to in the speech use of critics as the "dragnet": everything and everyone is caught up, including who and what has no value for the specific research. Will that be deleted again in time under the motto: select while you collect? Is that unnecessary information kept even though it's been deleted? After all, there is an essential difference between removal and destruction. Do I understand correctly that deleted information can nevertheless be retrieved long after selection has taken place in the context of the specific investigation? Is this in line with the case law of the ECHR? I refer to the case of Zakharov against Russia at the end of 2015. As far as I am concerned, the latest CTIVD report which points to shortcomings in the implementation of the obligation to destroy and in reports to the Minister responsible is worrying. I'm asking the rulers for a response. My group has great hesitation in the safeguards provided by the legislative proposal for the careful and responsible handling of large information flows that are being tapped off the Internet. And then I'm going to ignore the so-called chilling effect that data collection over the internet can have on citizens and businesses, that is, the reluctance to communicate through the net because you never know if that confidential communication is ever being used against you or even abused. And I also ignore the question of how effective it is to search for a needle in the haystack via internet taps if that tap only increases the haystack, a metaphor that the ministers have probably heard before, but which is still striking. The question is, however, very relevant for the assessment of whether the application of the competence is appropriate and necessary. For the time being, my group believes that the safeguards for the most selective execution of the research mission and the prevention of excessive restrictions on privacy have not been adequately reflected in the legislative proposal. I am referring in particular to the powers of Articles 48, 49 and 50 in the legislative proposal. Let me say first of all that my group can and wants to justify the extension of powers in the proper exercise of the functions of the intelligence and security services. With the opinion of the Section, we conclude that enlargement is legitimate and necessary. But my group also believes that such an extension can only be achieved if it is accompanied by clear legal guarantees within which the services must operate and by the establishment of an effective system of supervision. The Advisory Section concluded in an extremely clear analysis of the ECHR and the case law of the European Court that the legislative proposal contains a number of important safeguards which meet essential requirements laid down by the European Convention. This is a sound legal basis in the light of the awareness and foreseeability of breaches of fundamental rights and a sufficient justification for the need to create the power to unfocused interception of cable-based communications. Articles 18 and 26 of the legislative proposal provide, in general terms, the safeguards for the exercise of the powers of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity laid down in the proposal. That's good, but is it enough? The Advisory Section concluded that the powers of interception of large quantities of data, and therefore data from a large number of people and bodies, may sometimes be necessary in order to ultimately achieve the intended selection or to discover an unknown threat, which is not sufficiently acute in these safeguards. My group would have liked to see, in particular, the powers of Articles 48 to 50 legally provided for clear, focused criteria in terms of proportionality and subsidiarity, as concretely as possible. Unfortunately, an amendment in this area has not been accepted in the House of Representatives. That amendment, in part No. 34, stated that in the use of a special competence as referred to here, no more data should be acquired, processed or analysed than is strictly necessary for achieving the purpose of the research assignment and that the research assignment should be formulated as concretely as possible and, in itself or together with other research assignments, does not result in the systematic collection and use of data on a large scale. This was, of course, the combination of 'wide scale systems', which is often referred to as the towing network in the corridors. The government dissuaded this amendment because it did not respect the essence of the bill, said Minister Plasterk. Should I conclude from this that the government believes that bulk data can be collected, processed, analysed and possibly transmitted to foreign services on a systematic basis? I call for a response from the Ministers. Is "wide system" still in line with the demands of proportionality and subsidiarity and focus, which the government wants to endorse and which are crucial in the case law of the European Court of Human Rights? I would also like to comment on this. The other side, the House of Representatives, was satisfied with an extremely foggy motion, in which it was stressed that the requirements of necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity should also be interpreted and used in practice "as requirements that will lead to the best possible use of powers." If I may say somewhat unkindly: a deadly text to save both the cabbage and the goat. I would even welcome a tightening up of the legal criteria, whether or not in the case of further legislation. I believe that this is of the utmost importance to preserve or regain public confidence in the most careful application of these far-reaching powers. Another point which is closely related to this care is the destruction of data. The Government considers it to be of the utmost importance that non-researched data, i.e. data obtained from bulk interception which has not yet been processed and analysed, should, to a large extent, be allowed to be retained for a period of three years, which is often by-catch, by way of derogation from the normal one-year period. For encrypted messages, this may even amount to a double retention period of six years, because after decoding, the maximum retention period of three years applies. This long-term may be serviceable under special circumstances, and I will not deny that, but, in the opinion of the Section, it is contrary to Article 8 (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law based on it. The government feels nothing for shortened retention periods and believes that it will run counter to that European Treaty. However, I would ask the Ministers once again to reflect on the possibility of varying the retention periods according to the possible uses. For example, destruction within one and a half years or two years, unless a serious national security interest would oppose this deadline, which requires independent review. For encrypted data, at least a deadline for disclosure should be included in the law itself. This was also suggested earlier by the Advisory Section. I would also like to hear the reaction of the cabinet. My group is also concerned about cooperation with the rest of the world. The provision of unevaluated data to friendly services is, of course, already a difficult issue in itself. The final control of what happens to it is given out of hand, and so many data from people, authorities and their communication come into the hands of services, which serve political regimes that do not always wish to respect one-on-one our constitutional principles, even though they are often confessed by mouth. In the context of international cooperation in the fight against serious forms of state undermining and terrorism, my group could, by way of extreme exception, justify this, albeit with the need for proportionality and necessity. I find it particularly difficult that the requirement of weighting notes, which is assessed against the criteria of legal status, democracy, legal system and guarantees, does not apply for a transitional period of two years. In fact, this means that, without weighting on the basis of old service relationships, information flows that are not evaluated may be transferred to third countries, without any guarantee of what happens to them. I have three questions to the Ministers on this point. Why not postpone the operation of at least this part of the law for one or two years, so that those weighting notes are just there when transmission of Internet information would be on the agenda? Why does it have to take two years at all? So what happened in the years preceding this? After all, the law has been in preparation for some time. How do the Ministers intend to fulfil their responsibilities and those of their successors by allowing the transfer of information to foreign services if they do not have a verifiable framework in their hands? Do they see the risks that not only they themselves but, above all, innocent citizens can face? I would also like to ask how the communication of journalists and scientists can be adequately protected here. What measures does the government intend and can it take to prevent the dissemination and potential threat of sources of journalists and researchers through this transfer of information flows in countries of origin? I shall now turn to my final theme, which is the review and monitoring system. In particular, this system of monitoring has been subject to the Section's critical assessment in the light of the demands made by the European Court of Human Rights in relation to Article 13 of the Convention on the whole of the legal framework and the actual effect. The judgment is very clear: the system of supervision is not sufficiently effective and the review by the Committee on Betting Powers will in practice only amount to a marginal and abstract legality test ex ante. In fact, the TIB's review is expected to always be positive. The Advisory Section even speaks of an alibi function. My group understands this concern, although the proposed regulation formally meets the requirements of independent review. An infringement of ministerial responsibility, as the Advisory Section also pointed out, could indeed be raised in circumstances: the Minister remains fully responsible, for example, if his decision to engage and assess the legality of the TIB was based on incorrect data, but he is bound by the TIB's legality judgment in the sense that if the TIB considers that commitment would be unlawful, the Minister's decision on the basis of the law would automatically lapse. That's a big deal. Perhaps the Minister in charge of the Constitution would like to shed his light on this, just before his own political diversity. But the crux is still in the imperfection of the TIB's insight and knowledge, while the Intelligence and Security Services Monitoring Committee has it on all fronts. Why the government has so much objection to a construction in which the CTIVD also assesses the legality of ex ante, has not so far become sufficiently clear to me. The CTIVD is limited in its task and responsibility in this construction with the TIB because, I quote the Minister, "the CTIVD must in principle respect the legality of the decision'. I do not think that is the right thing to do. The CTIVD must be free to express an opinion on the nature, extent, proportionality and necessity of the application of the powers and thus be able to assess the legality of the commitment, if not on the front, then at least on the back. This is also in the interest of parliamentary control. It is therefore a question of whether the Minister's claim that the law lays down the legality judgment exclusively with the TIB is correct. The law does not restrict the task of the CTIVD; at least I have not been able to read it. Nor does the Minister want to promote the legal certainty role of both committees by, for example, entering into a cooperation protocol. In my opinion, that is a very persistent attitude, which offers little perspective on the proper positioning of both committees. The way in which the government deals with supervision and scrutiny leaves my group with a somewhat uncomfortable feeling. This may be workable for the services, but it is incomplete for balanced monitoring as part of constitutional structures. That is an important point of consideration for my group. Finally, I have a question about the right of complaint. Despite some of the objections, they have been dealt with by the CTIVD. The Government's argument that, within the framework of Art. 13 The ECHR must be a binding complaint procedure, it is convincing to my group, but it is not a CTIVD, not because the appearance of partiality can arise and a small unit has to divide itself into two, including Chinese walls. I would again like to invite the Minister to consider joining the National Ombudsman. This could also be regulated by further legislation. The binding nature of an opinion of the National Ombudsman, by way of derogation from the regular system, could be justified in this case as independent judicial review and control is excluded from intelligence and security services. Ministers understand that the critical attitude of my group does not make this legislative proposal easy, but, of course, I await the reaction and possible concessions from the government before giving a final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u12	As an afterburner, I still have a small interruption at a point that has passed before, namely the remark on the Recourt motion. Unfortunately, I did not get the opportunity to review the text of the speech, but I think I heard Mr De Graaf say that this is a very vague motion that we can actually do very little with. That's why I've been diving into my own file for a while, because I thought I remembered that the CTIVD sees that differently. In the letter we all received on 22 March last, the Record motion is referred to prominently in the first point under the heading 'Acts for effective supervision'. Next, the CTIVD writes: "The CTIVD understands this in a way that the services (by themselves and by themselves) have to answer the question of whether the use of powers cannot be more targeted, motivated in the requests for permission to use them." It is a great thing that the CTIVD states that this gives her sufficient guidance for supervision and it is good that the CTIVD says that it understands this, but I would very much like to hear from the government that the CTIVD sees this well. So I went through that in two rounds. The answer to that reply is that those requests for authorisation to use those powers must be justified and justified in order to ensure that they are as targeted as possible. I would very much like a response from Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u13	Sure. What the Minister says in response to that motion and the CTIVD can also be derived from the law itself. That is also what the Minister said, including in the debate with the Upper House. These are the demands of proportionality and subsidiarity. My request was not to stick to one motion, which, moreover, has no legal value, as you know, but to give a legal more detailed derogation from the requirements which may be imposed on the application of Articles 48, 49 and 50. I would like this to be more focused. I referred to a specific amendment which goes beyond the Recourt motion, but which was rejected by the Minister because he believes that it would restrict the services in their duties. I think that limitation would be very sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u14	I realize the status of a motion. That was also the reason for me to ask. We also know, of course, what the status of our Acts and the entire parliamentary history of a legislative proposal is and how it can work in practice, in case law and so on. In the reply, I received a vaguely formulated reply from the government, which should in any way show that the services use powers as focused as possible and that the Recourt motion had been properly implemented in practice. "In any way" was far too vague for me and I asked for it. In the further statement you will eventually get the ball on the spot or as far as I am concerned in the objective: not in any way, but the requests for permission to the Minister for the use of a special power will have to show that it is being used as specifically as possible. That is part of parliamentary history. We have a rather concrete wording. I would like to have another reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u15	Mr President, I get the impression that Mrs Beuving is mainly continuing the debate with the government about you and my head. That's fine. It is trying, with great patience by the way, to get the most out of that motion. That's good, but I'd rather it was in the law. In the law, I would like to be much more specific. Now we depend on the interpretations of the government and of the Chamber on what is not in the law. I don't think that's a very good position. I also regretted that, on the other hand, the amendment which lays down much more specific criteria and therefore introduces a certain restriction by, among other things, the Labour Party Group was not supported. That was a pity, but as far as I am concerned, this can always be achieved through further legislation. I hope that Mrs Beuving will support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u16	Mr. Chairman. "The AIVD and the STIVD have seen that Dutch government institutions have repeatedly been targeted during the past year by extensive and persistent digital espionage attacks. For example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence have been attacked several times, including by countries that have not previously been observed as a threat against Dutch government networks. The attacks show considerable and structural interest in the Dutch government," according to the report of the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security on the cybersecurity of the Netherlands in the past year. Since 2002, when the previous Act on Intelligence and Security Services came into being, the technical possibilities and resources have grown enormously with all the consequences. That also does not leave the work of our intelligence and security services untouched. I would therefore like to begin by complimenting the many men and women who are working day and night to make the Netherlands a safe country. We're grateful to them. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is intended to fit in with the security issues of today's day. In order to protect our legal order and thus our freedom and national security, it is up to the legislator to ensure a timely and effective legal framework for services. The Christian Union supports the cabinet in this search, but at the same time notes that there is a tension. How much freedom must a citizen give to ensure for our country that freedom and a stable legal order remain the pillars? If that becomes too much, then what we're trying to protect will also be undermined. It comes down to a careful balance, and that is precisely where the Christian Union Group still has concerns at the moment. I will present them to the ministers and inform them in advance that the answer means a great deal to us for our final voting behaviour. I'll start with the principle of legality. It is highly conceivable that follow-up should be given to the Dessens Committee's recommendation to drop the distinction between cable and ether under interception powers. At the same time, this calls for sufficient legal safeguards to ensure proportionality and subsidiarity. Dessens has advocated a technology-independent formulation. Looking back to the Wiv 2002, we see that it has occurred that there were powers that were given a much wider scope as a result of technological developments than was foreseen by the legislator. Take, for example, the analysis of large-scale etherbound telecommunications. It was not foreseen by the law in 2002 and got a huge flight. That's the principle of legality. The technology-independent wording chosen now has the great advantage of allowing the services to keep up with their technical needs, but for my group this is not a blank cheque. Can the Minister promise that new techniques used or new technical tools used to infringe privacy other than those envisaged at present will be an explicit point of attention to the five-year evaluation? Have I understood correctly to the Minister that the use of special powers will never violate the right to the physical integrity of persons? I'd like to hear that again later. Even if the Minister nods now, the Acts need more. Then the dragnet, as some call it, or the research mission-oriented interception, as it says in the law. In the delivered mails I understand now just as almost this entire Chamber receives daily in large quantities, it is also referred to as the "dragnet power." Don't the services keep too long and too much data from citizens whose services are completely out of the question? The Minister emphasized the motion for a resolution, which states that this competence is used as specifically as possible and that a request for authorisation to exercise this competence explicitly raises the need for proportionality, subsidiarity and proportionality. In addition, after the Minister's judgment, there will be a further check on legality. My group has two concerns about this bill. One looks at the retention periods and the other at the establishment of the monitoring system and, in particular, at the figure of the review committee. First of all, the retention periods. My group has difficulty with the three-year retention period for data collected by research assignment-oriented interception. Moreover, Article 48 provides in the sixth paragraph for the possibility for the head of service to request renewal after the three-year retention period and there is no lock on that door. Who or what prevents information from being kept forever? The examples in the explanatory memorandum which must prove the usefulness of the three-year period all go back up to two years in time, not further. According to the Minister, retention periods of neighbouring countries are broadly the same. However, he does not become specific about the deadlines for data resulting from research assignment-oriented interception, not even in the annex that is entirely in the back of that thick explanatory statement. Can he specifically support the claim that the retention periods in the surrounding countries are the same? What further indications does the Minister have that the Netherlands will be able to maintain this position at the European Court of Human Rights, should proceedings be initiated? Is this possibility also not contrary to the advice in the privacy impact assessment to assess the relevance as soon as possible and destroy the rest immediately? This data may also be provided to other services during the period of storage. How, then, does the Minister guarantee that the retention period will be maintained at that time? Is that a starting point for providing other services? Is that going to be discussed, or is that even a battle the Minister thinks he will not win? I'd like to hear more about that. Then the TIB, which has already been mentioned in this debate, the Review Committee on Bet Powers. Is this the best way to test independently in advance? The Council of State expresses its concern that the review will be very marginal and only an abstract legal assessment: the TIB as a stamping machine. There is no direct access to data and no know-how. However, having this knowledge and insight is indispensable to make an informed assessment of the need, proportionality and subsidiarity of the use of special powers. I appreciate, of course, the increase in financial resources and its solidity by the Schouten motion, but I continue to care that prior supervision does not have sufficient robustness. What will the Minister do with the TIB if it appears several times that the opinion of the CTIVD is different after the event? How does he inform Parliament about this? All in all, why does he consider this monitoring system more effective than the proposal made by the Council of State? And how can he be sure that this construction is EHRM-resistant? The group of the Christian Union very much doubts whether the TIB is robust enough for this task. Will the Minister also carry out a qualitative evaluation of the monitoring system, so that it becomes clear whether there is sufficient knowledge and space to consider that a decision is unlawful? For the time being, the Christian Union Group shares the Council of State's conviction that monitoring of the entire activity by the CTIVD will be more effective. The Council of State also makes justified comments on the limitation of the Minister's political responsibility. The TIB provides some kind of alibi, while the committee only reviews the legal arguments and not the political and international components. The Council of State strongly advises against this choice. Those are strong words. Adding a member with technical baggage, something the government has done after the Council of State's opinion, is not enough. In addition to ICT expertise, there is also a need for expertise in security issues. Moreover, the expertise needs to be built up in the early stages of this review committee. What is the Minister's view of this transition period? It is clear that my group is not yet convinced of the implementation of this monitoring system. The Christian Union Group also questions the handling of complaints and the transfer of complaints concerning the National Ombudsman's security services to the CTIVD. We simply put these questions in the way of the citizens' perception that this is an independent complaint-manager. The minister may point to the Chinese wall he will put between the departments, but the citizen sees the same credits as the supervisor's when he gets into or out of the building. Moreover, the CTIVD is an unknown to many citizens. The written procedure showed once again that this was a handful of complaints. Why for the handful of complaints involved, this rigorous change? Is the citizen perception also part of the evaluation? I'd like to hear from the minister about it. I come to my conclusion. How much freedom must a citizen give to ensure for our country that freedom and a stable legal order remain the pillars? It listens very closely when monitoring the balance between the security and freedom you get, and the privacy you have to give up for that. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that the principle of legality must be respected, even if the law proves to be opening up to techniques other than those currently envisaged. We have concerns about the retention periods and the effectiveness of the ex ante monitoring. Finally, we fear that the handling of complaints will no longer be seen as independent by the citizen. At the same time, we are aware that the current law needs to be modernised and that the threat is severe at this time. It is precisely for this reason that I hope that the Minister will be able to do justice to the difficulties we have with elements of this proposal in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. Our intelligence and security services are indispensable in the fight for our national security, for the safety of our people. Islamic terror attacks are the order of the day. London, Manchester, Brussels, Paris, Berlin, Nice and Stockholm have recently been the bloody scene of jihadist violence against our Western society. And this week it appeared that just across the border, in Düsseldorf, Germany, a great jihadist massacre has been foiled. Islamic terrorists who had entered Germany as refugees on the Balkan route and had been received by the Merkel government, wanted, through the so-called Mumbai scenario, to as many victims as possible in the city centre, the Altstadt of Düsseldorf. As with the attacks on the hotel in Mumbai in 2008, where 171 were killed, they first wanted to panic the masses with suicide attacks, and then to shoot people in the narrow streets with machine guns massively. The fact that such jihadist terror can also take place in the Netherlands is certainly not unthinkable. On the contrary. In the last month, the publication Threat Picture Terrorism Netherlands of the NCTV was published. He makes it very clear that an attack in the Netherlands, in particular a jihadist attack, is and remains real. With these risks, it is of the utmost importance that the Netherlands has a good legal framework for the intelligence and security services that is up-to-date. The reason for the present legislative proposal stems partly from the motion of member Elissen of the PVV-Second Parliamentary Group, calling for an evaluation of the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2002 and a proper review of the oversight of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u18	I have a question for Mr Van Hattem. He puts a lot of emphasis on terrorist activities by jihadists, but there's more than just jihadism, isn't there? The intelligence and security services must also monitor what, for example, Mr Putin's Russia is doing at the moment, and there are a number of other examples. Is it not a bit one-sided to focus the intelligence services' activities solely on jihadist terrorism?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u19	It is certainly the case that all possible threats to our national security must be channeled. I only quote from the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands of the NCTV, which very emphatically states that the jihadist threat is the most decisive threat to the Netherlands. So if we have to put the emphasis on something, it's on it. The biggest risk is the jihadist threat. It's as simple as that. That's what NCTV says, and we need to be able to trust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u20	The NCTV is, of course, involved in terrorist activities. But when I talk about the activities of Russia or other countries that are not in our interest, they are not terrorist activities. That is a threat of a very different order. But that is also what our intelligence services are meant for, of course. That's all I wanted to make clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u21	I can only fully agree with Mr Van Kappen. I'm sure all these threats need to be monitored. Mr. Chairman. After the Elissen motion had been adopted in the Lower House, the Dessens Committee started work. It has come to the conclusions that have finally been included in this legislative proposal. This legislative proposal provides for the AIVD and STIVD to be empowered to investigate cable-based telecommunications as well, that tasks and services and the use of powers of the AIVD and STIVD should be precisely laid down by law, and that the use of powers by the Minister and the TIB should be authorised, that independent ex ante review should also apply to the use of existing special powers and that the CTIVD should become an independent complaint body with binding rulings. After extensive consideration and discussion, the House of Representatives finally agreed to this package. The First Chamber then had a discussion with the CTIVD in its preparation. One of the points raised in that discussion is that some aspects of this law for the application of the CTIVD's review could be clarified. The question has therefore also been put to the Minister to ensure that this can be clarified as far as possible from the legislator's point of view, rather than by means of legal form through the judiciary. The Minister replied on a number of points. However, in some parts it has also been deliberately chosen to allow this interpretation to take place through the legal form. The question is how it will work out. Citizens have expressed concerns about privacy and possible degradation of privacy with regard to this bill. Of course, it is essential to ensure these aspects. That is not an unjustified concern. Nevertheless, the new powers in this legislative proposal are necessary. To illustrate the context of the investigation of cable-linked telecommunications, the following example. In the Islamic terrorist attacks on a wine bar in German Ansbach last year and on a train in Würzburg, communication via the Internet proved to play a crucial role. These jihadists received direct commands from an IS commander from the Middle East via chat messages. When, for example, the jihadist in Ansbach sent a picture of the square where a music festival would take place that evening with the announcement that the square would be full of people, the jihad order was clear by chat. I quote the German media: 'Töte sie alle'. Töte sie; with such inconspicuous islamic murder against Western society, intelligence work is imperative, with the services having appropriate means and powers to intercept such kind of Internet chats. The powers to investigate cable-based telecommunications may affect the privacy of Internet users, but are subject to legal safeguards, so that this remains as limited as possible. On the other hand, not being able to visit a music festival, a wine bar, a train or a Christmas market safely is a much more serious violation of privacy, which affects our freedom even more. At the same time, it remains crucial that there is also sufficient focus on the real dangers for our society. It is necessary for our services to be able to identify links that pose dangers to our national security when conducting investigations. Sometimes it is necessary to broaden the context. After all, seasoned activists and terrorists are trained in neutralizing statements, knowing that they can be tapped into their communication. To illustrate this, an intercepted phone call between two radical animal activists in January 2002, one saying, "Fortuyn must die," to which his partner responds by saying, "You know, babysitting, you mean mouth dead." It is precisely in order to identify such dangers that such calculating communication must be taken into account and that the new powers are important. In addition, this information will only be effective and of value if the responsible authorities start to use this information properly, for example by providing a potential target of an attack with timely security measures and by addressing potential attackers in a timely manner. Unfortunately, we still see too often that the services provide information, but a suspect is soon again at large, for example because of a lack of evidence, such as recently the "radicalized Amsterdammer," who was probably exploring opportunities for a jihadist attack in Eindhoven. Even as long as we leave the borders wide open, efforts by our services will be a fight against the beers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u22	Isn't it true that arresting suspects and further criminal prosecution is a matter for the prosecution? That shouldn't be a job for the security services, should it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u23	That's not what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u24	You suggested that, because you said that the services should address the suspects adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u25	Then you haven't listened to me properly. I said that the responsible authorities should be more appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u26	I'm glad you're nudging your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u27	That's not nuance, it's what I literally said. Anyway... As I said, as long as we leave our borders wide open, the efforts of our services will be a fight against the beers. The ease with which Manchester's attacker could travel through Europe undisturbed from IS area is characteristic of this. This applies equally to the many other Islamic terrorists who have come here through the flow of refugees. Borders close to this Islamic mass immigration is and remains priority number one. Finally, I have a question for the Minister. According to the bill, the TIB will consist of three members, at least two of whom are judges. But the third member can also be a non-jurisdictionary, with different knowledge and expertise. Can the Minister indicate whether he intends to pursue the appointment of a non-jurisdiction as a third member in the execution of this appointment, so that the expertise in the TIB will be more diverse in nature than only from the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. The right to privacy is a fundamental right in our democratic rule of law. This is laid down in Article 10 (1) of the Constitution: "Everyone has the right to respect his or her privacy, subject to any restrictions to be imposed by law or by law." Privacy includes communication via letters, telephone and internet. The European Convention on Human Rights, also in force in the Netherlands, states in Article 8 (1): "Everyone has the right to respect for his private life, his family and family life, his home and his correspondence." And paragraph 2 states: "No interference by any public authority is permitted in the exercise of this right, than in so far as the law provides and in a democratic society is necessary in the interests of national security" and so on. The articles mentioned in the Constitution and the ECHR protect citizens from public authorities. This protection is one of the most important features, if not the most important, of the democratic rule of law. Of course, that protection is not absolute. For example, for reasons of national security, the government may violate the secret of communication, but with strict legal restrictions. In short: only if necessary, proportionate and subsidiary. Against this background, the SP Group has assessed the present proposal for a new Intelligence and Security Services Act. Our opinion is that the invasion of privacy in this bill goes far too far. I will explain our concerns on the following points: the towing network, the exchange of data with foreign services, the use of so-called software vulnerabilities, the limited protection of citizens in real-time access to informant data and the insufficient protection of certain professional groups. The bill opens up the possibility for security services to collect large amounts of electronic communications from unsuspected citizens, as if it were swept together with a towing network, to investigate later to see if there might be suspicious communication between them. This is an unfocused violation of the privacy of many, which is described in this law as "research-oriented interception." The Vice-President of the Dutch Data Protection Authority rightly referred to this as "the euphemism of the year'. My group does not see the need for this type of bulk data collection. Where this is already possible, in the United States of America, research shows that its effectiveness has not been proven. However, if it is possible, it would be necessary for the legal protection of citizens to have the necessity, proportionality and subsidiarity of a research mission-oriented interception of our communication by a specialised judge reviewed. But this is not what the Minister wants, for our unconvincing reasons. Instead, following the flow of criticism of the secret service's power of towing, there will be a Review Committee on Betting Powers, the TIB, which, in addition to the Minister, should authorise such an operation. My group fears that the TIB cannot acquire enough knowledge and insight, including due to the lack of investigative powers, in order to reach a negative opinion if necessary, all the more so because the criteria to be met by a research mission-oriented interception are lacking and the Minister refuses to draw them up. The services may then keep the data for three years after a first global split in order to carry out further research. With this very long retention period of bulk data, the legislative proposal is very much at odds with the position of the European Court of Human Rights on Article 8 of the ECHR. Can the Minister say again why he wants to go so far, other than that it is only a compromise with the VVD, which would like to extend the retention period indefinitely? Can he also comment on Article 48, paragraph 5, of the bill, which states that this retained data may also be used for other ongoing investigations? Doesn't that mean that these bulk data can also be used non-focused, even non-research-oriented? And is this not circumventing the check on the legality of the collection of these data? The bulk data not yet investigated may also be exchanged with foreign intelligence and security services. And there's no prior surveillance on that. The SP Group is absolutely against this. It can bring great dangers to our citizens. Especially if there are no restrictions on the purpose and duration for which these data may be used. There is no guarantee that these foreign services will not use that data for purposes other than those for which they were collected in the Netherlands. For example, the Turkish secret service can search bulk data for the communication of alleged Dutch Gülen supporters with people in Turkey. And as we know, in that failing rule of law, it can be enough to be imprisoned without trial. Now it may not be possible for this type of bulk data to be exchanged at some point with a country in which the democratic rule of law is lost, but that will not help to abuse data that has been provided in the past. So-called "weighing notes" have been promised by the Minister. It weighs on country-by-country whether and to what extent data may be exchanged. But those notes are still not finished. This law allows the services to exchange data with existing cooperation partners for up to two years without any restrictions laid down in these notes. My group considers this an unacceptable course of action. This bill explicitly allows intelligence services to hack third-party equipment in order to gain access to equipment of concrete targets. Security services can use so-called software vulnerabilities: software errors that have not yet been detected by the manufacturer and therefore have not yet been corrected. Within the framework of national cybersecurity, the Netherlands pays a lot of attention to closing these leaks in software as quickly as possible, to prevent evildoers from using it and even shutting down the whole country with their attacks. It is very important that unknown vulnerabilities are reported immediately, allowing software manufacturers to close the leak. But the Dutch security services may use these unknown vulnerabilities to monitor their targets without having to report them. That is a great danger. It is known that the leak in Windows that is being abused by both WannaCry and the recently discovered NotPetya was in the hands of the US Security Service NSA and leaked out there. Can the Minister explain again why he considers keeping these opportunities for our services to acquire intelligence more important than monitoring cybersecurity, more important than the fight against cybercrime in general? Will he also explain why there is no review, not by the TIB, but even by the Minister, of the withholding of unknown vulnerabilities by the services, with all the risks involved? Moreover, the Minister is working on a directive dealing with unknown vulnerabilities. Does he wish to refer this directive, if necessary confidentially, to the Chambers? I come to a few comments about getting real-time access, and I apologize for all the English terms, but I quote from the legislation by the services into databases of informants. Informants are, for example, hospitals in this context. The Minister considers this to be less significant than the use of special powers, as real-time access would be data already available to the informant. However, we do not believe that the fact that the data have already been collected for other purposes does not reduce the infringement by the services of citizens who have entrusted their data to these institutions. For the citizens affected, it does not matter how the services collect these data: by the use of a special competence or by real-time access by a cooperating party. In both cases the data collection takes place secretly. So the citizen has no knowledge of this, let alone control it. The only difference is that the requested party is obliged to cooperate in the exercise of special jurisdiction and not as an informant in the consultation of the requested party. In my group's view, this difference does not justify why, in the latter case, a prior verification of legality by the TIB would not be necessary. Will the Minister explain again why safeguards that do apply to the recovery of stored data from, for example, a communication service provider do not apply to the collection of the same data through the voluntary cooperation of the same provider? Finally, I would like to say a few words about the legal protection of some of the special professions under this law. The draft law does not contain any specific rules for the processing and destruction of data obtained by the intelligence services by exercising special competence relating to the identity of a source of a journalist. We believe that this information, as well as the data relating to the confidential communication between a lawyer and his client, should in principle be immediately destroyed. Why doesn't the Minister want to include this in the law? In law, the judge has a role in the use of powers against journalists and lawyers. We believe that this should also apply to representatives of the people. They too must be able to do their work freely, unless there are very serious reasons for violating their communication secrecy. Why does the Minister not want to refer the decision to spy on people's representatives to the independent judge? The SP Group regards the bill as too far-reaching a violation of the privacy of our citizens across the board. But also for the Minister, it is better to turn halfway than to go completely astray. That is why we look forward with interest to his response to our comments and questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. A government that listens to civilians. Who doesn't want that? But if a government does that in a way that is as big and compelling as we see here today, we must seriously ask ourselves whether the cure is not much worse than the disease. I have rarely received as many distressed e-mails from concerned citizens as this week. This could be the case for many colleagues here in the Chamber who have more years of service in this house than I do. My group's main objection is the power to use a towing network to intercept and store huge amounts of data from random citizens. Where services can now only be targeted, they will soon be allowed to work with research-oriented interception. This allows the AIVD and STIVD to collect large amounts of information about the cable. All communications of large groups of Dutch people can be intercepted massively by the secret services. Anything you do online could end up in the secret service's tow grid. There must be as much transparency as possible for good acceptance and control. The legislative proposal hardly regulates what information can be disclosed or requested. Why is there so much uncertainty about sharing large amounts of data? How is it prevented that all communications from the neighborhood where a suspect lives can be tapped? Or that all Facebook messages from a particular city or district can be intercepted and stored for years? In short, how is it ensured that research contracts are as selective as possible? What criteria should the contracts meet? I'd like to hear a response. Monitoring is carried out by different bodies. Several colleagues have already referred to this. Prior to the use of powers, legality is assessed by the new TIB. In retrospect, the use of those powers conferred by the Minister or Head of Service shall be reviewed by the Information and Security Services Supervision Commission. The question is who controls who. How do we know what the test criteria are and whether the review frameworks work in practice as laid down in the law? In practice, much remains to be made clear about the functioning of the review framework. It is therefore very doubtful whether legality will be called into question before the start of practice. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. More and more information is shared with foreign services. In doing so, it is not necessary to examine in advance whether data may be exchanged without the services themselves having analysed and tested. We do not know exactly what the data provided abroad is about. The impact of this on citizens who are affected by this data is currently inconceivable. Why is an analysis prior to sharing with foreign services not mandatory? What can citizens be the risks of untested sharing of information? What guarantee can the Minister give that citizens' data will not be used for purposes other than those for which they were intended? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Finally, I will be brief. In this bill, according to the Party for Animals' group, the purpose, the modernisation of the intelligence and security services, does not outweigh the risks of privacy breaches. My group cannot accept the proposal now before us, as I say to all colleagues and anyone listening in any way, but wait with interest for the answer from the ministers. On this basis, it may review its assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-11-eerstekamer-6.u31	I'm suspending the meeting pending the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. In the meantime, there has been contact with the Ministry of Education. We understand the Secretary of State can be here at 4.20 p.m.
