ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u1	The Chamber has had its first term. The Minister now has the opportunity to answer the questions in the first term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last year, I wrote together with the Secretary of State following the report of the Education Inspectorate: "It is unacceptable if talents go unnoticed and therefore the potential is not fully exploited." I am therefore pleased to be able to discuss with the Chamber today the draft law on the introduction of associate degree training. In this way, the associate degree is fully positioned in our higher education system. The education system thus becomes a strengthened form of training between mbo-4 and hbo-bachelor. This makes the association degree an excellent form of education offering opportunities. The spokesmen have actually said all that. I'm very happy about that. Spokesmen see that it is a way to promote the flow from MBO to HBO without MBOs feeling the burden that some of them feel, to complete an entire four-year Bachelor's programme. With this, the MBO-qualified offers opportunities for further learning, even if one doubts whether one can handle the level of an HBO-bachelor or sometimes when one looks at a study duration of another four years. In my conversations with MBOs, I often find that those who want more want to go on to HBO, but often they do not know what that means and of course there is also an opportunity to enter the labour market. The associate degree is a way to go more easily to HBO, but also to encourage learning from the work situation, for example part-time. I heard the spokesmen say that a little less. I personally think it is very important that it should also be a stepping stone in this respect for those with an MBO degree who may have gone into the labour market after graduation and want to continue and learn more over time. They can then take part-time training from the work situation. There are also opportunities for a student who has started an Hbo-bachelor, but who over time finds that the level of education is actually too high or the motivation too low to finish it in four years. With that, they have an alternative to think: I am going to do the associate degree in this case. There are many possibilities for this intermediate form. I think that this is also very much in line with the wishes of practice. It is also in line with the OECD report on skills, as I say to Mr Duisenberg. It's nice that he mentioned that report one more time. In particular, I say to Mr Van der Molen that we are not supposed to attach a numerical objective to this. I have taken a short look at the numerical objective of the European context, because I am not interested in 50%, 60%, 70% or any other percentage of HBO or WO graduates. That is a risk which is far too great for us to put forward. We should not rely on macro figures, but on what people themselves need, on what students need and on what the labour market needs. Mr Van der Molen pointed out that the self-employed associate degree, with a greater picture of the labour market, also contributed to meeting the demand of the field of work for more highly educated people. Mr Beertema rightly said that this combines craftsmanship with strategy and knowledge on practical issues. I think it's very nice that we can further develop that. Associate degree graduates themselves indicate that the benefits of their training are great in their working lives. They have a better understanding of the organisation in which they work and they have more self-confidence. We know that self-confidence is crucial not only for your education career, but also for your future in the labour market. Mr Bishop wondered whether such two-year training had sufficient length to enter the labour market. My answer to that is yes. An associate degree as currently exists also leads to a labour market position. That associate degree contains a strong practical element. During the course students already have a lot of contact with the field of work, so I have no doubt that the associate degree contributes to maximum talent development and equal opportunities in higher education. Many spokesmen have spoken about this fine example in Rotterdam: the Rotterdam Academy. I really think that the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences deserves a great compliment. He has worked with the ROC Mondrian and other rocks from the surroundings of Rotterdam and the UWV, I say in particular to Mr Van Meenen and Mr Duisenberg. Job seekers at mbo-4 level are matched to vacancies at wholesale companies in the region, in combination with such an Ad-training. This project started in early 2017 with 22 participants, to whom a apprenticeship contract has been offered. Such regional ad-colleges can also be set up by other colleges, I say to Mr Van Meenen. And that turns out to be the case, because a lot of colleges now say that they are inspired by Rotterdam. In my previous life, when I was in high school, I hesitated to introduce an associate degree. Like Mr Futselaar, I was afraid that it would become a drain; that the students would be sent there that you do not really want at your regular HBO-bachelor education. Over time I have been personally convinced by what they have shown in Rotterdam. That's gonna take more than a law change. I do not know whether this is going to be countries like we all want, because all spokesmen emphasise the aspect of equal opportunities. We must also learn from what has happened in recent years, and above all from Rotterdam's positive example. So I am pleased that seven other colleges have said that they are going to develop the Rotterdam concept further. I say to Mr Van Meenen that this can also be done in other regions through these ad-colleges. He asked me how I'm gonna promote that. That is not even necessary, because these seven colleges are already going to do so themselves. With this bill, we are creating the conditions for doing so responsibly. We do this by ensuring the independent position of the associate degree more firmly, so that this training, with its own profile, can become a more attractive option. This also fills the gap in the international or European qualification framework. With mbo-4 we do have a level 4 in that frame and a bachelor-hbo is on the sixth level, but actually we were missing level 5. Mr Duisenberg rightly said that many countries already have this and that there are positive experiences with it. Since it is now becoming self-employed, there is also more scope for new training and for self-employment in the region and in cooperation with industry. The HBO school can explicitly seek cooperation with the MBO institution, I say to Mr Beertema and to Mr Duisenberg. I'll get to his amendment in a minute. Mr Özdil also asked how to promote accessibility and continuous learning with the MBO. That's what we all want. I see good examples of this too. The Fontys Colleges have made a covenant with four rocks on the development of new associate degree programmes. The Saxion and Windesheim colleges, VIAA, the Catholic Pabo and the Aeres Group have signed a covenant with the MBO institutions AOC Oost, AOC de Groene Welle, Landstede, Deltion College, Cibap and ROC Twente, to work together with employers and municipalities in the development of the associate degree in the province Overijssel. This is also in line with a development that I have committed with conviction: more attention to the region. The Regional Investment Fund is an example of this. Employers, schools and local and regional authorities know where they want to go. They know what is needed in the future in the labour market. I am very glad that I see many examples. I have just mentioned two of them, which show that education, the labour market and employers no longer refer to each other, such as 'you're not doing well', but are working together to ensure tailor-made work. Having said that, I come to the amendments. With the amendment in part No. 13 members of Van der Molen and Bruins aim to strengthen the involvement of employers, as is the case in the MBO. People are actually looking for a relationship like us who designed in the MBO with the SBB. There is no doubt about the importance of employers' involvement. The partnership degree will only succeed if it is in line with the labour market and if employers also want to invest in it. However, I do have serious problems with this amendment, because we have placed the associate degree in the HBO. In the field of cooperation with employers, HBO has a different way of working, a different form of system, than the MBO. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. In the MBO we know the SBB, the Collaboration Organisation Vocational Education Business Life, with a collaboration in the qualification structure. On the basis of proposals from the SBB I establish a qualification and on the basis of this a rocket can organise a training. In higher education, we do not have a qualification structure. Quality and efficiency are guaranteed by an accreditation system and there is a relationship with the labour market through the macro-efficiency test. The field of work is involved in several ways. First of all, the macro-efficiency test sees, among other things, whether training meets the needs of the labour market. The test for this is carried out in the Committee on Higher Education, the CDHO. A college of higher education must demonstrate that there is a labour market need at level 5 for associative degree training. In this context, the University of Applied Sciences should indicate which field parties are involved in the development of the new training and how the involvement has taken shape. For example, the involvement of employers must be demonstrated by a lasting relationship between the declining field of occupation and the institution. This can be demonstrated, for example, by a description of existing collaboration relationships, Centers or expertise, pps-constructions and field committees. Again, the Higher Education Efficiency Committee advises me on this. Sometimes this involvement is filled in in different ways, and I would like to leave room for that too with regard to regional tailor-made work. For example, Hogeschool Windesheim works by default with two reflection moments in a representation of relevant field parties in developing an associate degree. Avans Hogeschool uses field consultations and declarations of the regional field of work. So it doesn't all have to be poured into one mould, but one has to be able to explain to the CDHO a convincing story that shows that this cooperation is there. In other ways, the field is also involved, with guest lectures, practical lessons, Centers of expertise, Centres for innovative craftsmanship and so on. Finally. If the amendment to item No. 1 is not accepted by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, then we shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. If 13 are adopted, I really do have a serious problem. This means not only a lot more administrative burdens, but also that two systems will be put together. After all, we have an MBO system and an HBO system and then suddenly we move elements from the MBO to the HBO. I fear that this will lead to inefficiency and perhaps even to very confusing and chaotic situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u3	In any case, the Minister is very serious about this. I can see the fear of confusion. I would like to look at the amendment to make sure that we get this right, but it is motivated by the fact that we are really dealing with something else here, because we are also leaving room for the MBO to implement this education to a very large extent. I know that in HBO a lot is being done to show that there are links with business, but whether the discussion is about the state of education or about other things, we often find that the link with the labour market can be even better. The MBO shows, because of the way it works, that it can do better. Can the Minister reflect on the involvement of the MBO? When it comes to an Ad, we can't completely ignore the way we work, can we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u4	But the next issue I would like to discuss is Mr Duisenberg's amendment. It states that cooperation with the MBO can take place far beyond the 50% I propose. However, this also applies to the fact that, in the official way in which you are accountable and awarding diplomas, you cannot start to use these two systems interchangeably. This creates an enormous amount of inefficiency and confusion. Mr Van der Molen says that cooperation between HBO and business can be improved. I agree with him, but I would add that in recent years there has been a huge improvement for MBO and HBO. I believe that Mr Beertema also indicated this, and I am grateful to him for that. There is a lot going well in that area too. With the Centres of Expertise we have taken another step to stimulate this, with HBO institutions participating in regional consultation structures. You have an economic board in a lot of regions these days. Initially, they were often mainly universities, but now the HBO is more in line with this. I am not in advance opposed to encouraging any further improvement in this, but an amendment does deal very deeply with the systems. If we are going to send HBO institutions to the SBB to discuss this, they must do so twice, because in the meantime they still have to be with the CDHO. That works well, too. In fact, there are a lot of good examples of CDHO testing, which schools are also happy with. I would also like to leave room for regional tailor-made work. If Mr Van der Molen calls on me to consider how we can reach it, I am happy to accept that appeal, but a change in the law that affects what institutions have to do so far, I really think it is a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u5	If it had indeed been a call, I would have tabled a motion, of the type "doesn't we all agree that...?" or "we're all for world peace"; I would have said something like that. I am now looking very consciously at the text of this law: what will it look like? How can we ensure from the outset that there are links with business and that a good assessment of labour market demand is made? Businesses must be put in a position, as I have always understood from the SBB, in order to discuss and discuss the way education works and the considerations that are being made. That's what I'm trying to do with this. I have already indicated that I am prepared to look at the amendment, because I understand that there should be no confusion about it, but I would like to take the extra step to introduce here, especially if there are MBOs involved, the close cooperation with business, which we know in the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u6	I'll just say one more time that you can't start an associate degree until there's a labour market need at level 5. That's what you need to prove. You can't just start an associate degree. You have to prove convincingly that you are in contact with the business community. This can be done in different ways, for example by showing that you already have a Centre or expertise or a working field committee together. I have just indicated that there are several examples of this. Of course, we expect this cooperation to be continued afterwards. I think we can learn this from the past few years. The Members all rightly said that we already have an associate degree, but they do not now have an independent position. We've learned how to shape it. We must pay particular attention to this. Maybe I could do a hand-picking? This may also apply to a few other themes that I will come back to in a moment. It also applies to Mr Futselaer, I say immediately. I call it the risk that it will be a drain, instead of the upflow we all want. We're going to monitor and then after four years, because we actually have to go through a whole cycle, see how that took shape. If, after two years, we get signals about a failure of employers or are told that it is being used wrongly and does not lead to this emancipation and upliftment, but rather to the separation of students who may require a little more attention, then we will take stock of the situation, keep the thermometer in it and take action at that time. To be honest, I am confident that this will make a positive contribution on both issues, both in terms of cooperation with employers and in terms of their impact on emancipation and equality of opportunity. In Mr Duisenberg's amendment to item No. 9 it is stated that MBO institutions should be able to provide full associate degree training, with the exception of the graduation phase and the final examination. I would also advise against this amendment. Mr Duisenberg asked: what is the 50% based on? Is that an arbitrary percentage? No, that's not an arbitrary percentage, that's consciously chosen. This ensures that the centre of gravity of the curriculum will be offered at the university, as 50% will be provided at the university for at least one year. This amendment is the same as Mr Van der Molen's amendment. We shouldn't be using two systems mixed up. It must be absolutely clear that there is one institution responsible for the quality of the entire training, accreditation and examination committee, and therefore also for the quality of graduation. To be honest, I cannot imagine that Mr Duisenberg disagrees with me. I think that cooperation with the MBO is very desirable and I see the good examples in practice. Such cooperation can contribute to accessibility, continuous learning and equal opportunities. But it can also consist of very different forms. As far as the exchange of teachers is concerned, a university can also apply to offer associate degree training in cooperation with an MBO institution, as long as full responsibility for that training remains with the university. Bachelor's and Master's programmes are also allowed to outsource up to one third of their education. So we're doing more here than in regular training. In the associate degree, that is up to half, and that is already more. We are generous with this and I would like to see how this is going to work out in the first place. I think it is necessary that the associate degree should also take place in the context of an HBO programme, because we may also want students to study. Mr Özdil said the same thing. It's important that you create a recognizable culture. It is an HBO course, although it is a two-year-old, but it is an HBO course. Then it is also important that they meet students from HBO, that they meet lecturers, that they come into contact with practical research, such as that taking place at HBO. Again, this collaboration with the MBO can be very relevant, but at least we guarantee that one also meets HBO students, that one does practical research and that one studies in an environment where not only learning is central, but also the development of a problem-solving, critical and creative ability. These are all elements that are also part of the exam of an associate degree. I would also add that the associate degree is not just for MBOs. Havists and vwo'ers can also follow an associate degree. I don't think it's gonna be extra attractive for them if they have to follow it all the way to the MBO. So I think the HBO is the right place to take that training. I note that not only the Association of Colleges but also the MBO Council is well equipped with this line. Like Mr Futselaar, I believe that we should first look at how this independent positioning is going. The same applies to other amendments. I'm assuming everything's going well. That is just what I said to Mr Van der Molen and Mr Futselaar in response to two points. But I do want to make sure before I extend this further. As far as I'm concerned, it's a step too far for now. I therefore also reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u7	If the Minister thinks that in an Hbo-bachelor all students meet a lecturer, then I must speak disheartening words. I fear that this is not the case at all, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u8	It is a question of practical research.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u9	I would nevertheless like to clarify Mr Duisenberg's amendment. The following is a hypothetical case. Ads are offered in a separate location, so not at a college or a rock. Teachers from an HBO institution come to teach there. Teachers from an MBO institution will also be teaching there. The final terms are guarded by the college. Where am I gonna see the 50%? Does the Minister understand what I'm saying? Where does that line still run when it's so fluid?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u10	Where's that line? In any case, you have to prove that up to 50% takes place in an MBO school with MBO teachers. The responsibility for this is, of course, always with the training. It must be demonstrated that a substantial part of the training, at least half, takes place on the HBO in an HBO environment. So it's not just about the location, it's about what goes with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u11	I do not want to end up in an eternal terminology discussion, but "hbo environment" is a difficult concept. We're not talking about the building. We are not necessarily talking about teachers either. There is a curriculum guaranteed by a college, in so far as it includes the final terms. I'm kind of looking for an answer to the question of what an HBO environment is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u12	You're saying it right. The HBO environment is determined by the end-terms. The HBO environment is determined by an important part by teachers. We all know of students who make the transition from MBO to HBO, that the way of learning is completely different and that they often run into it. So on an HBO is taught in a different way than on an MBO. That is the framework that should be central, especially for students who may still want to move on to a full HBO-bachelor programme. It is an environment that is determined by the content of "T" there is actually about "T" and the culture of learning in HBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u13	I'd like to deepen this a little bit more for good understanding. We know Ad's that are organized in a separate place. They are not already given 50% in college, because they are separate. The example quoted by Mr Duisenberg concerns Hogeschool Van Hall Larenstein. That's a green college. That college of course wants to connect to a green mbo. Mr Van Duisenberg's theory makes this impossible because the Minister now says that it must be 50% in a college. At the same time, it is possible to offer Ad's in a separate location. Those two things don't add up. What rules make it impossible to set up such an Ad with the involvement of a university that may be at a certain distance from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u14	Now the discussion is being narrowed down to the location, but that's not the point. The point is that the responsibility lies with the HBO institution. You don't want more than 50% to take place at the MBO location, because it also gives you different distributions of responsibility. The point is that it is part of an HBO training course with HBO end-terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u15	It's good to get this straight. I think the Minister's gonna help us with that, too. But it's about the environment for a while, to weigh that understanding. I can imagine that there should be sufficient influence at HBO level. Then there's an HBO teacher in front of the class. Then the teaching material you use is at HBO level or at least at level 5. You'll have an exchange; I understand that. But the location is very decisive. That's something that can be really tricky. You can take an HBO teacher to an HBO location, but if you're not allowed to be at an MBO location, you've got a threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u16	I realize this is a complicated discussion. Of course, we notice at the same time that locations actually matter less and less. Learning in the workplace and learning digitally means learning everywhere nowadays. So it's not just the location. However, I must have a denominator in the law. It's an HBO program. Although a two-year HBO programme, an HBO work environment, HBO requirements and an HBO way of learning and working should be at the heart of this. We have designed this, and it must be made clear that HBO training also bears at least 50% of the responsibility, and that it must therefore form at least 50% of the training under the direct responsibility of HBO training. If you say: they may be HBO teachers at an MBO institution, you cannot follow whether that actually happens. We have therefore created a denominator for this in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u17	I think it is a good thing that we are dealing with this, because more parties are involved in this. Let me start by saying to the Minister that I fully endorse the starting point she formulated, namely 'as long as full responsibility remains with the university'. I have heard that clearly and I would like to say that first. I am not saying with the amendment that I would like to shift responsibility to the MBO. At the same time, I can see that colleges and MBO institutions want to work together, as Van Hall Larenstein, for example, does from Leuwarden, at various locations of the Wellantcollege in the area of Utrecht and in Zuid-Holland. The Minister says 'we should not confuse it too much with the location', but I think that it is a very large part of a location problem and that it raises a threshold of 50% and the requirement of the so-called HBO environment. I have the following question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u18	Could you be a little more specific?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u19	Yeah, well, here's my question. Now, quite absolutely, the law says "at least half." Can it not be brought under the responsibility of the university that it says: a certain part may take place in the MBO? But then the university must be more motivated that this fits in with the concept as it is intended. The Minister takes this with him and approves every application that comes in, so that it can be more dependent on the situation and on the proposal that the University of Applied Sciences wants to make together with that MBO institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u20	That is a different story from what Mr Duisenberg's amendment has said. What I'm saying is it's not just on the location. The location is a way to make it clear that it is an HBO training course and that it must take place within an HBO training course. Locations are becoming less relevant nowadays. I say that because we often work more digitally and perhaps also want to join a workplace. It must also be clear that at least half of this training takes place in an HBO environment. Maybe you can make an exception to that, but I don't make it; it's made by the CDHO, who has to see if there's a serious reason to approve it. For your example of Van Hall Larenstein, the Aeres Hogeschool and the Wellantcollege, half of the education can be provided at the location of an MBO institution. If one would like more, the college should apply for a subsidiary, allowing the college to open a branch at the location of the Wellantcollege. At least you've secured that it's also an education at HBO level. Should a college submit such a request, the CDHO will consider, among other things, the macroefficiency test to see if that subsidiary can be approved. But even then, education is still fully provided by the university.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u21	The way I put it is indeed different from what I put in the amendment. Moreover, I did not include in the amendment that it would, by definition, go completely to the MBO. What I did say is that there are just situations that you don't want to be limited by that 50% in the MBO part or at the location of the MBO. Furthermore, you do not want the cooperation of a university and an MBO institution to be limited by that 50%. So again, my question is whether it is possible. Moreover, I am prepared to adapt it, even for those Members who are afraid that it will go to 100%, by taking into account that it is a part that is more motivating. In this respect, the context of HBO education will have to be preserved, but the Minister will then review it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u22	That way, we'll get a lot more together. In any case, Mr Duisenberg comes more in my direction by including a clause for an exception. He is now saying that in one particular case more than 50% can take place at another location. This means that the University of Applied Sciences must also apply for this and that every step will therefore remain the responsibility of the University of Applied Sciences. That is actually my central point, because I do not want confusion to arise because someone can ever say: yes, but that was not our responsibility, because that was what the HBO institution was about. Or vice versa: no, but that was the responsibility of the MBO. I have come to know Mr Duisenberg in recent years as someone who has always been very careful. He always wanted it to be clear who bears the responsibility for the quality of the training. There must never be any misunderstanding about that. But if he wants to make it possible for it to be possible in exceptional cases, then it can be done with a subsidiary. This is also possible in case Aeres Hogeschool makes an application for a subsidiary office at the Wellantcollege. If he wants to encourage that or if he wants to introduce something extra into the law, I am open to that. To be honest, I do not know what else could be legally necessary, because it can already be done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u23	Mr Duisenberg, I see that you want to interrupt again, but I really want to do the interruptions in two. Otherwise, you'll have to come back to this in second place. I'm asking the Minister to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u24	Mr. Chairman. Mr Duisenberg's amendment to item No. I'll have to dissuade 10, too. That amendment creates the possibility that an institution can only offer associate degrees, even if it does not offer a full Bachelor's degree. I am very keen that these associate degrees are offered by a university in which HBO-bachelor education and practical research are also carried out. As I said in the previous amendment, we should not forget that this is a training in higher education where the context is decisive. This means that the context of an HBO-bachelor programme should be central and that we should not negotiate with quality assurance. In this connection, Mr Van Meenen asked if I had received any signals that rocks on separate institutions would only offer associate degrees. I didn't get those signals. I would like to say to Mr Duisenberg that my further objections to his amendment relate to the fact that I also think it is very important that a student starting with an associate degree should be able to move on to regular HBO training. If there are only associate degrees, that road will be cut off. This is problematic in my view, and I also believe that it does not contribute to a good relationship between funded and unpaid education. I am afraid that, if necessary, it could be used as a sort of shortcut, so to speak, to enter the higher education system. After all, you are a legal person of higher education, a private institution, and that has the consequence that you have the confidence to provide full HBO-bachelors and masters, based on a paper test. That confidence cannot actually be given with only training at level 5. I think that is very risky, because it would mean that, above all, uncosted institutions would be providing associate degree training. The question is whether they can give the full HBO level. Once we have given permission to such an institution, it is extremely complicated to withdraw it. I have seen one example of this in recent years, the EuroPort Business School. It has taken me a great deal of effort to withdraw its approval. I would like to say here: let's see how things are going before we take far-reaching steps towards enlargement. I come to Mr Beertema's amendment. He actually wants us to boost the reputation of the associate degree and he wants the Ad-training to be provided by a college, at the location of an MBO institution. For the same reasons I have just mentioned in response to Mr Duisenberg, I would advise against this amendment. I totally agree with the importance of improving the image and reputation of MBOs, but I think if we do this right... Let us above all ensure that we do not make mistakes in the coming years with the association degree programme. I just want real security here. We have experience now. We know what we can do. We have the good examples from Rotterdam and from elsewhere, let us now ensure that we develop this in a good way. It would be deadly and mortally sinful if we now take too big a step and then think after a few years: now that whole concept is in a bad light again. It doesn't serve the MBO, nor does it serve the HBO. Those who are mostly not served by this are the student himself. For the sake of completeness, I would like to point out that in his amendment as it stands, Mr Beertema proposes that only paid associate degree courses should be physically housed in an MBO institution, not the unpaid. There is therefore also a contradiction. Mr Özdil and Mr Van Meenen asked about the flow. If you want to continue from the associate degree to a regular bachelor's programme, you can, but how long it takes depends a little on the relationship of the courses. If you have completed an ICT MBO programme and you want to move on to an ICT HBO-bachelor programme, the study burden will usually be between two and two and a half years. You want to go from your associate degree ICT to, I'm just saying, nursing, it's gonna take a little longer. Mr Van Meenen asked for information. We are going to take that very intensively, but I would like to say that I have already learned from the study advance that this is a difficult group to reach. A letter to the home address doesn't work here, it has to be in very different ways. There's no easy way to tweet with this either. This requires very targeted and comprehensive information, but we are working on it. We are also going to do this together with employers, in the context of lifelong learning initiatives. Of course, this also happens with the schools. I say to Mr Van der Molen: together with the SBB too, and we take this into account in regional surveys and so on. Mr Bishop asked whether we should now use an international name for the sake of familiarity and familiarity. I've been talking to a lot of people about this lately, because is that name recognized now? The point is that it is well recognized internationally and meanwhile the bachelor and master, I say to Mr Beertema, are also English. For students, it is important that they are also recognised abroad with their diploma and those institutions that had already started an associate degree say: we have already done a lot of work in the region to make it known, so we really want to keep it that way. I told you I'd be happy to monitor, and I'll add that after two years, I'll keep a thermometer in it. If there are signs somewhere in the areas mentioned, or in other areas, that it is not going well, then I would be happy to take action. Mr Van der Molen asked about the National Student Survey and the internship supervision. I think internships are very important, so I also like to include them in the monitoring I have promised. I hope that we will see an enormous enlargement in the coming years. We see that at the Rotterdam Academy the number of students has grown enormously in recent years, from 170 in 2011 to over 900 in 2016. We see that Avans has doubled the number of students to 800 over the last five years, especially part-time students. There are about 40 applications for associate degrees ready for approval. If the Chamber approves this bill and so does the First Chamber, we can really take a huge step at a very fast pace. I come to the second subject on which questions have been raised, namely the awareness of social responsibility and, in particular, its control. I actually want to be quite brief about this, because I have discussed it very, very comprehensively with your Chamber and I have discussed it very, very comprehensively with the Upper Chamber afterwards. In both chambers there is a very large majority in favour of the law, only the First Chamber has said that it wants to have a hook, to have more control, so that if an institution shows insufficient or no sense of social responsibility that it is regulated in such a way that the political preference of a minister cannot play a role in this. That's what I did with this bill. I promised the First Chamber I'd do it as soon as possible. That's what she attached to it. This was the first possibility. I will tell Mr Özdil that the proposal on social responsibility is not about academic freedom. It's not really about that. That is one of the keys, the question of whether there is academic freedom. That has to be tested by third parties, not me. It's about whether an institution defaults, and that's something a judge can't test. We don't have a means to test that. I believe that I was ultimately able to convince the members of the First Chamber, including those of his group, of the importance of this. I have laid down in the review framework, as I say to Mr Özdil, that the ministerial decision setting up the advisory committee will be sent to this Chamber and to the First Chamber. This includes the review framework. He asked if the Minister had the opportunity to depart from the committee's opinion. That can only be done for serious reasons. It must include the Minister in the decision and can therefore control the Chamber. The institution may always object and appeal. In the end, it is also the judge who makes the final judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u25	I have a question for the Minister, but I have a supplement first. The concerns I expressed in my contribution in the first term are in line with what my group in the First Chamber said when it agreed to this law on social responsibility. There were a lot of ifs and buts on that, indeed. I'm glad to hear the Minister shares that concern. It's about academic freedom in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u26	No, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u27	Please ask your question, Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u28	My specific question is whether the Minister is prepared to submit to the Council of State for its opinion the letter of amendment concerning the Advisory Committee and the related review framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u29	No, I don't see any added value in that. I've been through the entire route with the original bill: Council of State, Lower House and Upper House. We've talked about that extensively. Both chambers have now agreed to the bill. It would be strange to go back to the Council of State. I don't see any reason for that. I see, however, that the discussion has been called for, including in the Upper Chamber. Your group colleagues in the First Chamber have agreed to the bill, Mr Özdil. They have said that they want the assurance of such a committee. That is why this committee is now in this legislative proposal, so that it can be ensured that the minister, me or one of my successors, not just if he or she disagrees with someone, can limit academic freedom. That is now being examined with this committee, and that is what this is about. That's step one. It also examines whether there is also academic freedom. If that is the case, the next step will not be taken. So that's a very clear touchstone. Is the expression of academic freedom or any other fundamental right? If the independent committee's answer to that question is "yes," then the Minister cannot take any further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u30	All right, that's where the shoe is. Who decides what is or is not covered by academic freedom? Who's on that committee? How is all this organized? Let's be very careful about that. I'd like to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u31	Yeah, that's a very important part of the bill. I'm not going to repeat all that now. There's an independent committee. It is made up of people who are supposed to know things too, so someone with knowledge of equal rights, someone who has knowledge of educational rights and someone who is competent to act as a judge. And I say again: I am happy to submit the ministerial decision on that advisory committee to both Chambers. I think I have done the maximum, I say, in order to do justice to the mandate given to me by the Chamber. This very intrusive request has already given me quite a period back. Mr Duisenberg knows all about this. We have explored all the possibilities to tackle this within the current legislation. Turns out he couldn't. In my opinion, this is the only, but also the only, responsible possibility to do so. Mr Bishop asked what it means when you have to be appointed as a judge. That is actually the appointment that is equivalent, for example, to an appointment for a college profession in higher education. This means that the candidate must at least have completed legal training. Mr Van der Molen also asked about the Council of State. I've already answered that question. I still have to answer one question about another part of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u32	Minister, you just answered Mr Bishop's questions. He also had a question about purely expertise on equal treatment. So you say that in other areas too? Then you've completed that package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u33	Yes, I say: in the field of equal treatment, but also in the field of education law and someone who can be named judge. And if one needs additional information that these members do not cover, then the committee is always entitled to seek external advice. But I made that commitment to the First Chamber to at least ensure that they are not political appointments and that they are people who need to understand things. When the principle of discrimination is at the heart of the matter, expertise on equal rights is obvious in itself. But freedom of education can also very well play a role in this. Depending on the case, the committee can also always ask third parties to advise the committee. Finally, this legislative proposal contains a section on the registers. Mr Van Meenen raised the question of whether the exchange of information between the funded education and SOURCE is now sufficiently guaranteed that this data is not improperly used for wrong purposes. To that question I can say that it has been established that this must be done within what is technically called the "targeting principle of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This is a provision which applies to all regulations and laws. That is where we have to stay. This means that data can be used for scientific or historical research, for example, or for statistical purposes. But it also means that the exchange of data must always be carried out in accordance with the rules of the GDPR, and can also be accepted according to those rules. I think that we have sufficiently secured privacy and sufficiently secured that improper use of data will be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u34	You have thus come to the end of your contribution. I myself have noted some questions about the costs, about the t-2 cost and about the fear of borrowing. These are the only three issues I have raised here and the Chamber can expect an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u35	We can talk about loan anxiety every week, but I do not believe that loan fear plays a role specifically for the associate degree. We know from the recent monitor that I have sent to the Chamber that MBOs have more fear of borrowing than havists and vwo'ers and that there is work to be done on that point for me too. It is not easy to solve this with simple information. I think this is more of a step which will make it easier for students with some fear of borrowing to take the step to HBO, because they know that they do not need to borrow directly for four years but that they can also borrow for two years. I believe it was Mr Van der Molen who asked about t-2 and t-1. That seems really undesirable to me, because the whole state contribution for the whole education system is a t-2 system. It would be very strange to suddenly use a t-1 system for a limited part, apart from the fact that it is not actually feasible at all. Because why do we have the t-2 system? Because then the data is based on an accountant verified set of data. So if we go to t-1, it would no longer be possible to base the funding on pre-controlled data. This would mean that a large part of the money might have to be repaid again or that money would have to be added. It creates enormous noise and huge administrative burdens, as well as confusion, because it does not happen in the rest of the education system. Did you write down another question or was that it, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mr Özdil had asked me some questions about the costs, but I think they have been answered. I always try to keep up with the risk that people will have to ask the same questions in the second term as in the first. At least now I've crossed everything out. I'll take a look at the members. Is there a need for a second term? There's that need. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Duisenberg of the VVD Group. Excuse me, I think there's a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u37	Yeah, is it possible to suspend for five minutes? Then we can take a look at what has been done with the amendments and we can clarify them immediately in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u38	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u39	I see that many Members still have important concerns this evening, so I will give the floor quickly to Mr Duisenberg for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for her reply. I think we all agree that with this law, which I believe everyone supports, we are working towards maximum opportunities for every talent, as the Minister said in her opening words. It is a good thing that we are making independent training, with our own labour market position. The VVD also supports the bill, but I think we have opportunities to make it even better, hence the two amendments. I would like to say a few words about the second and I would like to say a few words about the amendment to item No. 9, my first amendment. The amendment in part No. 10 means that an Ad can be an independent education without the provision that there is a bachelor's degree. I think that condition is an obstacle to the emergence of Ad's. The Minister's reasoning is that through Ad Sneaking Legal Persons higher education may arise. If we consider an Ad to be a full-fledged self-training course in higher vocational education, I do not understand that an institution can become a legal person for higher education if it provides a bachelor's degree, but not if it provides an associate degree. It's the same for me, because it's an independent education. I will leave it at that, however. I will consider what I will do with the amendment. I'm gonna check with my colleagues, too. I would like, in particular, the pièce de resistance, the amendment to item No. 9 to discuss. We've had some discussion about that. Those 50% of the total amount that is shown in the legal text, and this is also reflected in the response in the report, will be an obstacle. I don't think we made it all the way out in the different cases. Take Van Hall Larenstein in Leeuwarden who wants to start an Ad at Wellant in Noord- en Zuid-Holland and in Utrecht. It's not clear if that's possible. Aeres Hogeschool and the Groenhorst College in Barneveld? That will also be hampered by this rule. You can say there's a workaround, you can do it with a branch. But with that, you simply bypass an overly strict provision in the law, and that's too bad. I say to Mr Özdil and the Minister that if we are to learn part-time and lifelong learning, it is important that there is the possibility of setting up this kind of ad's close to students, which is particularly important for green education. Otherwise, you're gonna have to travel after work to get into the college environment, whatever it is, because we didn't make it all the way out tonight. I'm gonna take a look at my amendment. In doing so, I would like to underline the words of the Minister, so confirm that we assume full responsibility for the university. However, I think that 50% is so sharp that the law should leave room for other situations, depending on what is necessary. It may also be 70-30 or 80-20 or 60-40; I don't know. I believe that the law should leave room for a case-by-case assessment. I could say on the part of my amendment which monitors that 50%, that it is a part of the higher education institution which is more motivated. Then I could do something in the text, such as "it is possible, provided that the HBO institution explicitly motivates it; the Minister must assess this motivation and take into account that the quality of the Ad-training must comply with the standards of HBO training." That's where I'd go. This just gives you more space to do so in these individual situations. Then we do not have to look at these programmes in a very artificial way by means of all kinds of detours. I want to work on that. I will amend my amendment to that effect. I will send my colleagues the amended amendment in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for her clear explanation. I am very pleased to hear that the Minister agrees with what the associate degree is intended and set up for, namely, HBO-oriented final training, and that it should remain so. I am also very pleased with all the commitments she has made. With regard to the section on social accountability, which is a rather far-reaching part of this law, I would like to help the Minister. I'd like to give her extra belts to make sure this is done properly. I am therefore tabling the next motion, which has been co-signed by my state-owned excellent colleagues Bishop and Van der Molen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State has previously expressed fundamental criticism of the duty of institutions in relation to the sense of social accountability;]] [[Whereas, in line with this criticism, the First Chamber asked the Minister to set up an advisory committee;]] [[noting that the Council of State has not been consulted on this Advisory Committee;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Council of State, for its opinion, the letter of amendment concerning the Advisory Committee and the related review framework, which is still to be received,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil, Mr Bishop and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34678-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u42	Mr. Chairman. My thanks also to the Minister. I'm glad to hear that the associate degree finally gets the place he deserves. The integration into the labour market, the regional labour market and the regional economy is finally beginning to take shape seriously. The position between the MBO and the HBO makes this training an important tool of emancipation and upliftment. We've been looking forward to that for a long time. I was just talking to the Minister about the fact that at the end of this period it is indeed nice to conclude. After all, we are dealing here with a new form of education that contains a great promise and that is very nice. It is, of course, a pity that the Minister does not appear to be sensitive to my patriotistic plea to give that fine education a beautiful Dutch name. I would therefore like to put that to the Chamber in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the English language is becoming increasingly dominant in social movements at the expense of Dutch;]] [[Whereas it is precisely the legislator who must do everything in his power to preserve the Dutch language as a language of education, culture and science;]] [[considers that the Prime Minister of Education, Culture and Science has a task to protect the position of the Dutch language;]] [[calls on the Government to replace the name "associated degree" by an appropriate Dutch name,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34678-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u43	For the last time in her period, the Minister is going to advise against this motion, so as far as I am concerned, she does not have to give any more appreciation. In separating the market, it's my pleasure to do that for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u44	Perhaps you will be surprised, Mr Beertema. You don't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u45	No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u46	You don't know that. We're gonna see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u47	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I do believe that we can see that there is broad support everywhere for the principle of associate degree. The Minister has said a lot that the SP can agree with. That has been different today, so in that respect... The minister almost flew off the bend in her first sentence. She said that the Ad is a wonderful step between mbo-4 and hbo, after which she hesitated and added "-bachelor." I think it is very important that we stress that the Ad is not a intermediate step between MBO and HBO, but part of the HBO. That is a difference in the status it should be given. I would like to say something about my hesitation in the Duisenberg debate. On the one hand, I am not insensitive to the argument that we have a beautiful law here that we would like to introduce and that is why we do not want to mess about too much because we do not know how that works. On the other hand, location matters. This is particularly true for students with an MBO background, who do not travel half-country easily, especially if you look regionally. Suppose you basically have room for an Ad in Dokkum, then those students who have to follow Ad in Leeuwarden, regardless of whether they follow them part-time, in which they have to drive and so on in the evening. The only exceptions are, if I understand the Minister correctly, either an extreme exception or the opening of a secondary establishment by a university. That's not easy for a college. I do think that we are now very limited in this respect. Education close to the potential students is important and will become more and more important, especially now not to mention parties have put an end to study funding, which makes it more self-evident to live in the city where you study. I think this is a dilemma. I look forward to Mr Duisenberg's amendments with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u48	Mr. Chairman. Of course I am very pleased that all the examples tonight are about Leeuwarden and Dokkum. That can be understood in two ways. Whether it's about the fantastic Friesland, of which I go out for a while, or it's at the end that we have to pay attention to that as well. I can reassure Mr Futselaar. There's a whole new highway, the central axis. From Dokkum you can be in Leeuwarden in about twenty minutes. There's gotta be some way to do that. However, I agree with Mr Futselaar's comments on what Mr Duisenberg has put on the table, namely that there are issues that we need to consider carefully. I am very interested in the amended amendments and I would like to take them seriously. I thank the Minister for the monitor she has promised. However, a number of objections have been raised which weigh heavily on us as well. The possibility of looking at it after two years is a very good one. I understand the Minister's comments on my amendment. I will keep the amendment under review and see if it should be amended. I will inform the other Members as soon as possible of what is happening with it. What I want to say at least in the vote next week is the importance of the involvement of business. That is why I would like to take the opportunity to table the next motion, in which this is also pronounced for the purpose of the monitor. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas regional enterprises are closely involved in the establishment of the educational programme in the MBO;]] [[also considering that it is important, because of the close involvement of the MBO in the Ad-Training programmes, to give business a clear position here too;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[call on HBO institutions to involve business closely in the design of the education programme of an Ad-Training programme with a view to the knowledge and ability of the student;]] [[to carry out explicit qualitative research into the involvement of regional industry in the design of education within the Ad-Training programme, in the monitor promised by the Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34678-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u49	There's only my name under the motion now. There'll be a few more, I guess. In this way, we in the CDA Group really hope to draw a line that we expect more involvement from the business community in Ad-training than we have seen so far in HBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u50	The Minister has indicated that he can reply immediately as soon as he has received the last motion. Our impeccable messengers are already running back and forth. I give the floor to the Minister to start with the two motions she has already received.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u51	Mr. Chairman. Mr Duisenberg said that he had his amendment to item No. 9 may wish to reformulate, so that it does not become self-evident or the rule, but that it may exceptionally be more than 50% on the MBO. I think we will then get a lot closer together, so I look forward with interest to the redrafting of that amendment. I think it's okay to look at how we do it procedurally. As long as it remains an amendment, it will also become an integral part of the legislative proposal, so I would like to take a look at it myself. I can imagine that the Chamber would also like to hear my opinion on that amendment in legal and implementing terms. I would like to have an exchange of views on this subject, but nevertheless the Chamber will be able to vote on this bill next week. Mr Özdil spoke about social responsibility and tabled a motion in respect of item No. 14 to return to the Council of State. I would advise against this motion, because we must put an end to it. This bill passed the Council of State. It has been discussed very extensively in this Chamber and in the Upper Chamber. The First Chamber asked me to set up a committee and to anchor that committee in a regular law. That's what I promised the First Chamber. I let the First Chamber know what steps that committee is going to take. That is what I have enshrined in this bill. If we now go back to the Council of State, we are actually back to square one, and I cannot live up to a large, broad-based wish of the previous Chamber. I also ask Mr Özdil to take this into account. This is a new Chamber, but on the basis of our responsibility to the field, I believe that we have now found a solution which is justified and which, in general, meets the concerns previously raised in the Second and First Chambers, while respecting the broad will of the parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u52	The Minister says that the previous Chamber discussed this very extensively. I would add that an additional step that is not really necessary will only lead to the situation of a number of institutions being misled students with names and degrees being maintained, because this law will not enter into force until this part has been adopted. Then the situation of students being misled is extended for a number of months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u53	It is a good thing that Mr Duisenberg adds this, because I have promised the First Chamber that the parts will not enter into force until this part is settled. I think there are a lot of reasons for putting an end to it now. Then I come to Mr Bertema's patriotist motion on part No. 15 to invent a Dutch term for "associated degree." Mr Bertema has not yet come up with that name. As far as I'm concerned, that doesn't make much sense either, so I advise against the motion. I would add that I spoke to the institutions about this because I was wondering if it would not help to find a Dutch term that is more attractive. I have been convinced by the international use of this term and the fact that the associate degree as such already exists. If you have been on the farm for a number of years to provide information and that has to change all of a sudden, it will also have adverse effects. I can say that there will soon be a KNAW opinion on English in higher education. Perhaps it makes much more sense to discuss this with each other, because then it is not just about two English words and some kind of training, but about English throughout education. I strongly agree with Mr Futselaar on the Ad as part of the HBO. It is important to ensure that the Ad is in all possible ways part of the HBO or, to put it correctly, of the HBO-bachelor. That's what Mr Futselaar said. Again, we're gonna watch if the Ad does what he has to do and occasionally we're gonna keep the stick in. I shall now turn to the amendment and the motion tabled by Mr van der Molen. In the Van der Molen motion in part No. 16, I recognize myself well. So that's judgment room. I also attach great importance to cooperation with industry. It is fine to conduct explicit qualitative research in the monitor, especially in the regional business sector. That addition is important to me. I really believe in that too, for the MBO and for a very large part of the HBO. I think there's even more there. I think it might be useful to look at that. I hope or suppose Mr Van der Molen will withdraw his amendment. This seems to me to be a very good substitute for the central point he wanted to make with his amendment. I repeat that the amendment in its present form really raises serious objections. That's it, Mr. Chairman. I believe that we have a legislative proposal that will enable us to take important steps from the point of view of students, from the point of view of the labour market and from the point of view of regional cooperation. Mr Bertema said it. I really hope this will take a further flight now. We have gone through the whole process carefully in recent times. I therefore assume that we will also be able to take careful steps in the near future to extend the degree of association and make it a success. If the Chamber agrees to the law, I believe that this law lays the groundwork for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u54	Mr Duisenberg still has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u55	That's what we're gonna do: agree to the law. I am actually addressing you, Mr President, and my fellow Members. I'm gonna try to get the amendment right. However, it will take a few steps and perhaps a little consultation with the Ministry. It is therefore possible that on Tuesday I should request that the vote be moved to Thursday. I'd like to report that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u56	That's very careful. Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u57	In any case, this is the final treatment of a law before the recess. I thank everyone and thank the Minister very much for this milestone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u58	I just figured it out myself. I think there's a very good chance this is my last law. We do not know, but it may well be the last law of this cabinet. It is therefore a good thing to realise together that this is a small milestone in education for future generations of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-12.u59	Fantastic.
