ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u1	Then I turn to the last question, which is from Mr Jasper van Dijk, on behalf of the SP, to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, on the message 'Robbery in the greenhouses'. I would, of course, like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tens of thousands of migrant workers, especially Poland, work in the Westland greenhouses. In De Telegraaf's report "Roof construction in the greenhouses" last Saturday, we read about their circumstances. You can say it's nineteenth-century shit. For example, read the story of Bartek, who lost his pinky because he had to work with an unprotected cutting machine. Also read about the lousy housing. Sixteen men live in one house, where there is leakage, loose toilet pots and mice and rats. The thermostat's under lock and key. If you get that because it might be cold, you'll get a fine. For this stay, as much as €5,600 per month must be paid. Also read about the sexual harassment. There's been a meat inspection. Older women can go back to Poland. Young women are offered direct work, but then they have to appear properly dressed at work. If you complain, you can leave. Temporary agencies deliberately seek out Poles who speak bad English, so that they cannot report wrongdoings. One of these temporary employment agencies is Efficient at Work. That agency has a quality mark! How is that possible, you wonder? Exploitation of migrant workers has been going on for years. It's a walhalla for employers: cheap labor that you throw out when they open their mouths. Consequences: unfair competition and repression. That knowledge is not new. What's new is this minister. So what's he gonna do about these lousy circumstances? Does he agree that the inspection should take much harder action against such practices? Is he gonna make sure the inspection doesn't just check on paper? What's he gonna do about these bad temp agencies? Is he prepared to introduce a licensing system for these agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank Mr Van Dijk for this very fair question. I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk that this was a shocking article, last Saturday in De Telegraaf. It was indeed about safety, about working conditions, about living conditions and about exploitation. It is a legitimate question from Mr Van Dijk. Unfortunately, fair wages and good working conditions are not yet self-evident, but this article again shows. The cabinet is committed to equal pay for equal work in the same place and to better enforcement of the agreements by the Inspection SZW. In recent years, my predecessor has focused on tackling temporary employment agencies employing migrant workers under poor working and living conditions. This cabinet will continue to do so. In fact, in the coalition agreement, we made 50 million extra available to the SZW Inspection, especially when it comes to maintaining fair work. As of the 2018 budget, an amount of 13 million will be made available to appoint additional inspectors in order to maintain additional inspectors precisely in this area. Mr Van Dijk's last question in the first round was about temporary employment agencies and the licensing system. The cabinet is not in favour of that. We now have a system of self-regulation. This works in practice so that many crooked temporary employment agencies lose their mark. Apart from that, the enforcement of working conditions, e.g. maintenance of the minimum wage law, is really a task of the Inspection SZW. So we have allocated extra money to improve enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u5	Let me start positively; it is a new minister. It's good to have extra money for the inspection. We will keep a close eye on whether the inspection is actually going to start. I would therefore ask the Minister not only to check the inspection on paper, but also to actually visit the greenhouses and the lousy housing, which I have just explained. It is a shame that self-regulation continues among temporary agency bodies. Read the article. Then the Minister must acknowledge that self-regulation is not working. They are medieval situations when a temporary employment agency organises a meat inspection and does not leave migrant workers at the thermostat on penalty of a fine, even if it is cold. What are the ambitions of this brand-new minister? He also says, "We're really gonna work on that?" I'm asking him to explain a little more precisely what he's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u6	I'd like that. This is, moreover, the responsibility of the Secretary of State. During the budgetary treatment of SZW, probably around 20 December, it will explain how the extra money for the Labour Inspectorate will actually be spent in the coming years and how it will be used. We already have an existing Inspection Control Framework, in good Dutch, which sets out a number of priorities for the coming years. There are also a number of priority areas, such as temporary employment agencies, agriculture and horticulture and the construction sector. In addition, there is the approach to false constructions. This is an ongoing policy, which this cabinet continues with. The Secretary of State will explain how the extra 50 million will be spent on the Labour Inspectorate over the next few years. Mr Van Dijk's second question was about enforcement. When it comes to housing and how people live, the municipality of Westland, also following the article in De Telegraaf, contacted SZW. The municipality is going to look into what is happening in practice and is going to keep its finger on the pulse when it comes to the housing and temp agency that this article is about. The municipality of Westland will keep my ministry informed of the progress made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u7	There's gonna be some extra money and there might be some extra inspection. We'll all keep an eye on that. I regret that temporary employment agencies are not subject to a licensing system. I guarantee that this kind of disorder is going on right now. I would say: put the bosses of these temporary employment agencies jointly and severally, because then you can really hit them where it is necessary. Finally, I would like to ask the new Minister how he looks at the general phenomenon of labour migration, where there is repression and unfair competition. We have unemployed in the Netherlands, as you know, but still 30,000 Poles work in the Westland. How does the Minister see that? Is he gonna do something about this displacement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u8	I thank Mr Van Dijk. I assume that the SP group will be watching me closely in the coming years on this point. It would be a disappointment if this did not happen, so I assumed that. The final point is how I look at labour migration. In general terms, the internal market brings much prosperity to Dutch society, more exports and good economic conditions, but there are also excesses. My predecessor in Europe, for example, has been working on the Detaching Directive: equal work must be rewarded equally. This applies both nationally and internationally. Last week, in the debate on the declaration of government, Mr Rutte indicated that this cabinet will continue along this line in the coming years and will also work towards improving it at European level. So that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u9	On behalf of my group, too, a warm welcome to the new President. If I may say so: I am particularly pleased to work with a colleague-Rotterdammer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u10	There are more Rotterdammers in the cabinet!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u11	I am very pleased that the Minister recognises the importance of the inspection in this regard. We also welcome the extra money earmarked for the Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate in the coalition agreement. However, the Minister will undoubtedly agree with me that this is not enough in itself and that an integrated approach is also necessary. An example: companies that break the rules are fined when they are properly inspected, but employees are not automatically paid their late wages. The messages also show the culture of office that can sometimes prevail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u12	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u13	My question to the Minister is what his plans are in the front, in the context of: prevention is better than cure. There is little about that in the coalition agreement. As far as I am concerned, this can be done in a letter at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u14	I can try to answer that question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u15	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u16	Very briefly. In January 2017, the Fake Constructions Act entered into force. There are a lot of handles in there to deal with this. In addition, we conduct preventive policies, for example by providing advice and information at embassies, such as in Poland, on how to prevent labour exploitation. Indeed, we have the line of equal pay in the same place, both nationally and internationally, as regards enforcement by the SZW inspection and internationally through the Detachings Directive approach. All these measures and policies have been implemented in recent years. I believe that they need to be continued over the next few years, precisely in order to be able to act both preventively and in enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u17	Also on behalf of me and us a warm welcome to the minister, not from Rotterdam but from Texel. All these people see this minister and, above all, how he is going to deal with this kind of abuses, eagerly, regardless of the labour market and pensions. In these latter areas, too, everything must be done, but this is about a serious failure, which unfortunately takes place far too often. Especially in the Westland, we see a lot of such examples: sexual harassment, intimidation of people and housing practices that do not belong in this year. Yeah, I'm gonna finish up. The Minister is right to say that we must maintain this and that the municipality must go in. When are we gonna get another update on this as a room? I would like this minister to be actively involved in the inspection and the municipalities and also to show to the Chamber when this is resolved, because this cannot be done. This applies both to the housing situation and to working conditions, because they too go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u18	I very much agree with Mr Van Dijk, the other Mr Van Dijk. I also want to keep my finger on the wrist. There are, of course, annual reports from the SZW inspection on the progress of the policy and on what has emerged. In general terms, the Inspection SZW really keeps its finger on the pulse and is on top of that, but I take Mr Van Dijk's signal very seriously and take it with me. Perhaps I can come back to the budgetary debate on how we proceed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. This was also the first test for a number of directors. I have to say that a number of members of the government have passed Question Time without further ado.
