ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin oral Question Time with Mrs Ouwehand's questions to the Minister for Medical Care about the message that strawberries are six times more toxic than other fruits. It is for the Minister of Medical Care the first time he has performed here in plenary. For Members of Parliament who say something or contribute here for the first time, it is a maiden speech, but that does not apply to directors. But welcome. I call Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, would like to say to the Minister for Health, I would like to say a little more in those terms: welcome to the very first Question Time of this cabinet. And also welcome to Sarah, who can watch us express our concerns about the large amounts of poison found on strawberries. Mr. Chairman. In the eighteenth century, botanists shared the strawberry with the family of pseudo fruit. I do not think they could have suspected that this is almost literally the case in the twenty-first century. Strawberry is known as vitamin bombs, as super-healthy. But what does it turn out to be? There are six times as many residues of pesticides in it as in other fruits, because of the combination of toxins poured out over our summer queen. The problem is not necessarily that if we eat a strawberry right now, we'll drop dead immediately, but where we don't know what's wrong with him anymore, unfortunately, poisons do. They do exactly what they are meant to do, and that is the killing or disrupting of organisms. In the long term, toxicologists have been warning us for a very long time, pesticides are associated with parkinson, with cancer, with Alzheimer's, with disturbed development in young children. So in the long term, we must take these risks seriously. I'd like to start with the new minister carefully. Does he consider it justified not to look at stacking or cocktail effects in the authorisation of pesticides if these are used at the same time or in a mixed manner? Because that's the problem. The NVWA looks at all means individually and says seventeen times that they are all under the norm but science has been warning us for 30 years that you should not look at the individual resources individually but also at the effect they have on each other, because then it can be much more toxic than we think now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that we all wish our food to be safe; I also say it to Sarah here. Our food must be safe, our strawberries must be safe, our vegetables must be safe, all our food must be safe. Mrs Ouwehand asked about the stack effects. I believe that these stacking effects should be properly assessed. The point of checking those stack effects, not the individual resources, but the cocktail, its consistency, should also be assessed. I believe that this is an issue which has been raised several times in this Chamber and which is also being addressed at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u5	That's a careful start. I hear the Minister say that he thinks that the stacking and cocktail effects should be part of the assessment. The problem is, however, that this is not the case at the moment. Nor is it the case that we only know this for a year and that we should give time for research. There's been a scientific consensus for 30 years. There was an official warning 13 years ago, an official recommendation from the Health Council, which said: that must be done. It has been an official European rule since 2005, but it has still not happened. So we cannot just accept the statement that it might be a good idea; it really has to be done. So what's the minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mrs Ouwehand knows, I think, better than I do that in a European context. Our RIVM, our National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, is part of a European expertise group and also of the European authority for safe food. They want to look at the cocktail approach. They've been studying for several years. One thing is certain: that investigation takes time. That European body is an independent body. Mrs Ouwehand asks what I can do about it. I would say to urge RIVM to take steps in the meeting of that European authority, so that the cocktail approach can be seen quickly in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u7	If I listen carefully to the Minister, he says that we need to look at the cocktail effects in order to protect public health properly. This is still not part of the models used to assess whether substances could be used safely. Is the Minister prepared, now that it has been so long and now that we know that certain important effects have not been taken into account in the assessment, to take the position that we should be more careful with the authorisation of and the rules for the use of these substances? Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u8	This is where Mrs. Ouwehand starts asking me about it. I really should assess what European policy is now, what resources have been and have not been taken into account. If I encourage RIVM to work faster or the EFSA, which is the European authority, to move faster, it might take more time to expand the research and we will be back here in a while. I'm not sure that's your intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u9	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u10	Finally. I understand that the Minister is still new, but this is a bit crazy. The Minister, who is responsible for the protection of public health, agrees that these effects should be part of the standards and the assessment because otherwise we run irresponsible risks, but does not seem to be concerned that even so, let us take the benchmark of the Health Council for 13 years is the recommendation and that we are taking even more time now. That's a little crazy: worry, but settle for moving forward again. I promise this Minister that we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Grashoff, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u12	In 2005, the European directive was changed: you have to take into account the stacking effects of poison. That was 12 years ago. Since then, research has been carried out. That's been happening for 12 years. I would like to ask the Minister's policy statement: does he agree with me that this is an absurdly long period? I have one further question for you. Does he share the idea that, if this is the case, the Minister should say, under the precautionary principle for public health, that we are simply going to assess those accumulation effects, those stack effects, and we are no longer going to wait for a conclusion of an EFSA study that appears to be being trained?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u13	I do not believe that there is an absurdly long period. After all, that European authority is going to study not only strawberries, but a lot of crops. In addition, there are also a lot of crop pesticides and a lot of life patterns, from younger people, from older people, from pregnant people, from children. If you look at matter in this way, there are a lot of variables and it is not wise to say that independent scientific research takes absurdly long. I said earlier to Mrs Ouwehand that I would like us to have a proper planning of this European authority, so that we also know when a semicolon can be placed behind this subject. I do not believe that we will ever get an examination on the subject of plant protection products.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u14	Also from this place welcome, also to Sarah who is now gone. But I can just imagine that she had co-chosen this question. The D66 group is indeed keen to receive this planning. What if 12 years is absurd? It's a long time. I've been looking this weekend for what consumer information is available. I looked at the website of the Food Centre and I didn't actually find any information about those combination effects on the fruits themselves. I would like to ask the Minister if he can ask the Food Centre to supplement that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u15	I think that's a very good suggestion. I'll take a look myself. I've looked at a number of sites, but maybe not all of them. Consumer information about safe food is of paramount importance, so I would like to examine how that information has been arranged and where it can be improved. It is about strawberries in this case, but this can perhaps be seen more generally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr President, how many questions can I actually ask? I actually have a cocktail of questions, but I think only one question can be asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u18	Then I have the next question for the Minister. The food has never been as safe as it is now. How can we avoid unnecessary panic-mongering? It would be crazy to ask another question next week about another product and to call on the Minister repeatedly to answer questions here. I think my question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u19	That is indeed a very clear question, but you have the number of questions in hand, not me. I can well imagine that safe food is of great importance to every Dutchman. The Dutch Food and Service Authority and the RIVM both do a lot of and useful work. Thousands of samples are checked every year. It also shows that our food is very safe. But what we are paying attention to is worth the good conversation, even here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u20	In recent years, the use of plant protection products has fallen significantly. However, this does not mean that our food must be safe and that if there is a discussion about the cumulative effect of resources, what is now being discussed, it must be clarified. I therefore welcome the commitments that have already been made. The Minister has referred several times to RIVM and EFSA, but I can imagine that there will be a time when he will also be discussing this with colleagues from other Member States. Is he prepared to do so, so that it will also be on the agenda in other countries such as Denmark, Belgium and Germany and we can speed up the process together, there will be more clarity and there will also be a European standard for the accumulation of effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u21	The fact that I called upon the European authority here shows that I think it is important not only to look at this issue in a Dutch context, but also more in a European context. Not only is a lot of food produced in the Netherlands, but a lot of food is also imported. It is therefore important to look not only at the national but also at the European scale. So I look forward to talking to my colleagues from other European Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u22	People worry about their food. That's a problem. This applies both to this side of the Chamber, which is concerned about poison, and to the other side of the Chamber, which is concerned about unnecessary panic. That's pretty broad. I understand that the Minister wants to wait for EFSA investigations, but it also seems logical to me that the cabinet should draw a line somewhere and say: at that point we simply want clarity, because this situation cannot continue for another 12 years. I would therefore like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to send us a letter, in which he clearly states what he thinks the trial should be and when the Netherlands says: now we are not going to wait any longer, now we are going to get to work ourselves. This can possibly be done in conjunction with the aforementioned planning from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u23	Let me start by handing over that badge. That seems rather complicated to me, because if it has not been possible for a number of years, it will have to be decided first. That is the question I would like to ask RIVM, to hear in the course of the month in the next conversation with the European Authority EFSA what the planning is for dealing with that cocktail issue. That's the first thing. Perhaps I should point out that the whole issue of strawberries has been identified by our Dutch Food and Waring Authority. So it is the Dutch system that works and that brings it to light, so that we talk about it here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u24	We cannot do it ourselves, because we have to wait for European discussions on this. Does the Minister recognise that he has a national competence to protect public health in such a way that stricter standards can also be set in the Netherlands in the event of risks to those cocktail effects? Does he recognize that he has that authority? What we are looking for then, of course, is when he is willing to use it if it only lasts and lasts and lasts in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u25	It was in this case, I thought, about the cocktail effects, so the coherence of the different plant protection products. I believe that values at national level have been determined in a very careful way, not only for adult people but also for pregnant people and for older people. I think that the standard definition at Dutch level has actually been done rather well. Maybe I can take the opportunity to... I just made a mistake, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u26	Already?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u27	I have spoken about European colleagues and it must be its European counterparts. Then I've put that right here. It won't be my last mistake, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u28	That was not an answer to my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u29	Well, I've been trying to answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u30	The Minister is right to say that the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority has found this. However, this Chamber did not take note of this until after we saw a publication in Trouw. My question is whether it was sufficiently well known to the Ministry and whether the Ministry did not really consider it important enough to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u31	In this case, according to NVWA, no value had been exceeded, so there is no need to pay attention to this in a debate in the Chamber. If there had been any excess, you would have heard about it, not Trouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u32	Would you like to ask a second supplementary question, Mrs Van Brenn? Then you know you can't ask questions after that. No, I didn't think so. Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u33	From my side, too, a welcome to the Minister on an important subject, because food safety concerns us all. I still think I want to make the nuance that we have to be careful to create fear images and talk people into fears. Our food must be safe. If it's not safe, we have an agency, the NVWA, that has to intervene. That's what she did in this case. I think that should also be said. The Minister cites RIVM, a legitimate party, but I think Ctgb is also an important party, because it assesses the admission of resources. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u34	That is the task of that college, so I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-2.u35	Thank you. Thank you for your presence here, but also for the fact that you were able to answer all questions without papers. That is a very good start and perhaps an example for other MPs and directors. Thank you.
