ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is foreign and asylum policy. We have eight participants from the Chamber. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. He is now entitled "Director of the day', because he is so good to be present at the votes tonight. That means he's gonna experience our dinner break all the way here in this building, and then he's gonna be able to watch the votes from box K. That could take, say, an hour and a half. So we appreciate you being here, Mr. Secretary of State. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Karabulut of the SP Group. Like everyone else, she has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased that the President is considering perhaps signing the pledge for the ban on nuclear weapons. We gave it to you tonight. But that aside, Mr President. We are also talking about Afghanistan, where there are no nuclear weapons, but where there is war. It is a coincidence that last week we and the Foreign Affairs Committee talked about the deteriorating situation and the extension of the war in Afghanistan, and that at the same time a debate was taking place because people, refugees, are still being returned, despite the deteriorating security situation. Kids shouldn't suffer from that. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the UN states that Afghanistan is at war and that research shows that nine out of ten Afghan children under 15 years of age are facing violence and that the number of children among the victims has increased significantly;]] [[Considering that UNHCR is not in favour of returning refugees to Afghanistan due to the ongoing conflict and lack of absorption capacity;]] [[Whereas a new notice of office will not be published until May 2018;]] [[calls on the Government not to extradite children to Afghanistan to publish the new message,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2358]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u3	It would be a nice Christmas message if we could at least settle this tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u4	I call Mr Van Ojik van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the AO, my colleague Buitenweg drew attention to the fate of converts and apostates in Iraq and to the fate of Ihbtis in Ukraine. My motions are about that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Freedom Of Thought Report 2017 states that Iraq for apostates is one of the most dangerous countries in the world and that UNHCR states that converting Islam in Iraq often leads to social exclusion and violence on the part of the family or the local community;]] [[Whereas persons fleeing because of exclusion and violence based on religious beliefs are, in principle, entitled to protection;]] [[calls on the government in the country-based asylum policy towards Iraq to identify converts and Islam waste as a risk group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2359]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u6	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has identified Ukraine as a safe country of origin without making an exception for Libyas, despite a call from UNHCR to the Netherlands for such an exception due to increased violence against Libyas in Ukraine and lack of protection by the government in practical situations;]] [[calls on the Government not to consider Ukraine as a safe country of origin for lhbtis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2360]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u7	I have 20 seconds, Mr President. I would like to point out to my colleagues that I will be voting this evening on the amended motion on the coastguard in Libya, which I arrested at the request of the Secretary of State, who has sent another letter. I tried to formulate that motion as reasonably as possible. I am no longer talking about suspending support to the Coast Guard, but about reconsidering it. I hope, therefore, that this will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u8	Just a little commercial for your own motion. Then Mr Bishop of the Political Reformed Party, for his last contribution this year to our deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. During the discussion on asylum and immigration, various measures have been taken to streamline asylum policy. I would like to express my appreciation for that. However, I have also put my finger on another measure, which is a little more complex because it has international dimensions. It seems to us as a SGP that it is worth taking a look at how we can also streamline our asylum policy. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers it undesirable that many asylum seekers remain in uncertainty about their status for a long time;]] [[Considers that it is best for all concerned to clarify the residence status of an asylum seeker as soon as possible in order to be able to work on their integration or expulsion;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, at European and other international level, ways of limiting the possibility for asylum seekers to submit unlimited follow-up applications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2361]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you. Then on our list is Mr Voordewind. Will he be replaced by Mrs. Van der Graaf? That is not the case. Mr Fritsma of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. The attack on a Jewish restaurant in Amsterdam was also discussed during the general discussion on foreign affairs. As a result, I would like to table one motion, the content of which speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one week after the attack on a Jewish restaurant in Amsterdam, the Secretary of State for Justice and Security knew nothing about the residence status of the Palestinian offender;]] [[Whereas he should have had this knowledge in order, for example, to assess whether there have been errors in the granting of residence status, whether errors have been made in the screening of the offender and whether the right of residence of the offender may be withdrawn;]] [[Considering the importance of a rapid such assessment, taking into account the combat experience gained by the perpetrator in Syria and the threat it poses to our society;]] [[Whereas the person in charge of all aspects affecting the right of residence of the offender should be personally concerned with this matter which is directly affecting national security;]] [[notes that it is not good that the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, one week after the attack on a Jewish restaurant, did not know anything about the residence status of the Palestinian offender and that this needs to be improved in future similar cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19637-2362]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr President, with all due respect to Mr Fritsma, but to be honest, this motion is completely nonsense, isn't it? Surely there is a difference in what the Secretary of State knows and what the Secretary of State can communicate in public about a particular case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u14	Well, the VVD Group may think this is bullshit, but this Secretary of State and all the Secretary of State are dealing with a lot of individual matters. Especially a case in which a life-threatening person attacks a restaurant in Amsterdam, who himself claims to have withheld information from the residence application, doesn't a State Secretary have to be on top of that personally? This is only logical, because it is necessary to consider how a residence status has been provided; what happened at screening; how the residence status can be withdrawn. Then it cannot be explained that a week after this attack the Secretary of State simply cannot say anything about this case and does not even know the status of residence. If the VVD Group thinks this is nonsense, it says a lot about the VVD Group and the unwillingness of the VVD Group to take the fight against terrorism seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you. Then there is Mr Groothuizen of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The situation in Libya continues to cause concern. However, I can see that there are encouraging reports that more and more people are being repatriated from Libya. Much more needs to be done, as far as I am concerned. As far as D66 is concerned, access to detention camps, preferably all detention camps, and evacuation of people from Libya are of paramount importance. Then, in the long term, we must ensure that people do not want to take the trip to Libya at all, so that they can not get into trouble there either. In the report from the European Council that we received yesterday, I read that the Prime Minister raised the issue of the independent monitoring mechanism. That was also recorded in a D66 motion from last week. That's good news. The question, however, is how this is going to go on. What steps will Europe take to ensure that this mechanism will work in practice? Can the Secretary of State answer that? Can he also promise that he will continue to follow this issue critically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u17	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Van Toorenburg from the CDA group, but she has waived her speaking time. The Secretary of State is asking for two minutes. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u18	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Four motions and one question: let me walk them by in order. The first motion, tabled by Mrs Karabulut and Mr Jasper van Dijk, on item No. 2358. Also following the budget debate at the end of November, a motion was tabled by the Chamber concerning the cessation of the return to Afghanistan. I did not recommend that motion at the time, and that motion was subsequently rejected by your Chamber. This motion also calls on the government to stop the return to Afghanistan. Only this motion is specifically aimed at children. I would remind you that on the previous motion I indicated that I believe that the current policy for Afghanistan does justice to the precarious situation in that country. A large number of groups have been identified as risk groups or as vulnerable minority groups. Of course there may also be children within these groups, and in that case, of course, these children are also at risk or vulnerable minority groups. On top of that, of course, in every case an individual test is done on the basis of the individual account. In my opinion, this takes due account of the difficult situations in Afghanistan. So I do not see in the country information any basis for judging that all Afghan children should be granted an asylum permit just because they are children. The Chamber knows that in our legal system it is decided that not granting a permit implies that return is at issue. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u20	One question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u21	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But this motion is not asking to never return, but to suspend until the new ministry report arrives. I would remind the Secretary of State that it is extremely unsafe in Afghanistan, that the Americans have stepped up the bombings, that the Taliban is advancing and that the UNHCR and the UN are talking about distressing situations among children. The only thing that this motion requests is: please do not deport children until the new message of office has arrived and a new debate has taken place. That's all!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u22	Clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u23	Yes, Mr. Chairman. That is exactly the same as the motion before the budget. Then it was also about a moratorium until the new message of office. We've brought forward the new post. In the meantime, as I have just reported, individual applications always check the individual account. This may therefore mean that there may also be reason in the individual account to grant a permit here if people are excluded from the identified risk groups or minority groups. Well, I answered as I just answered. I don't see any reason to go into an overall departure moratorium right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u24	Second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u25	The second motion, in part No. 2359, is about converts and apostates in Iraq. That is Mr Van Ojik's motion on Islam waste in Iraq. In the AA I told the Chamber that apostasy of Islam is not specifically mentioned in the country-specific asylum policy for Iraq. In this policy, however, a number of religious minority groups have been designated as vulnerable minority groups, for example Christians. This includes the former Muslims who have converted to Christianity. Of course, here we can think of more examples of people who have converted to another religion or are seen as apostate for other reasons. But the question is whether it would be desirable and appropriate to include all these examples in national policy. In my view, we should restrict ourselves to groups which are a substantial part of the asylum influx from that country to the Netherlands, especially since I also explained in the AA that not mentioning apostasy in the country's policy on Iraq does not mean that applications are not carefully examined. In the individual assessment, the precarious situation for apostates is explicitly involved and will therefore be authorised in many cases. However, I would like to add that it can also be concluded in isolated cases that there is insufficient reason to grant asylum protection, for example if someone has not encountered any problems before and there are no concrete indications of future persecution. Individual review would also be the case if apostates were included in the asylum policy for Iraq as a group at risk, because even then the individualisation requirement still applies. From this argument, I believe that there is no need to add Islamic waste as a risk group, including everything I have said, namely that there is a basis for a lot of these people to eventually obtain an asylum permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u26	One question, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u27	Yes, Chairman, I know. I have, of course, listened carefully to the Secretary of State and also to what he said earlier in the AA. I assume that the individual review is always careful. In this case, the Secretary of State says, too. To be honest, I am assuming that, but that would mean that you never have to identify a particular category as a risk group, because you always carefully review the individual case. My question is why, for example, in the case of Iran, we are specifically talking about Islam apostasy, when it is said in the case of Iraq: we are dealing with it by means of an individual review. I honestly don't understand that difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u28	This difference has to do with the fact that it is primarily based on periodic posts, looking at the situation in the country itself and at many groups. Subsequently, country policy is a tool for the IND to help with the individual test. That is why I am in favour of doing so especially for those groups whose influx we are seeing here. You can map the whole situation for many groups, but if it is just a few applications in the Netherlands, it makes more sense to judge it individually at that time. Mr President, the Van Ojik motion on item No. 2360 is about the Ihbtis in Ukraine. The Netherlands has a responsibility to provide protection to persons who, in their country of origin, have legitimate grounds for fear of persecution within the meaning of the Refugee Convention, for whatever reason. My predecessor has previously indicated to your Chamber on what grounds Ukraine has been classified as a safe country of origin and how the position of Ihbtis is defined there. It was important to note that in Ukraine there were cautious positive developments in the area of the rights of Libya. But here too, and we have exchanged this in detail in the AO, every request for asylum from a foreigner who claims to be LGBT is carefully assessed. The Cabinet recognises that in Ukraine there is social discrimination and intimidation of the lhbti group and that this is taken into account in the decision on individual asylum applications. Given the cautious positive developments observed, I now see no reason to regard Ukraine as an unsafe country for lhbti's. Regularly we are going to review the countries that we now consider safe, including Ukraine, so there will also be a re-evaluation at some point. Then we will see again whether this cautious positive development has settled. I do not see any reason at present to make an overall exception for lhbti when naming Ukraine as a safe country of origin and I therefore advise against the motion. Then the motion to part No. 2361 by Mr Bishop. In the AO, I already indicated that I feel sympathy for the idea behind this motion, because it is true that foreigners submit several follow-up applications, all of which are unfounded. In these cases, this may also be very unsatisfactory for staff in the foreign chain. Of course, you already feel a 'but' coming, because, as I indicated during the AA, it is not possible under the European Convention on Human Rights and the case law of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg to set a ceiling on the number of asylum applications to be submitted. It is always possible for new facts and circumstances to arise, which make the asylum seeker eligible for an asylum authorisation, because these facts and circumstances are, by definition, examined in an asylum procedure. If there were no such possibility, there would be a chance that the asylum seeker would be returned in violation of the refoulement ban in the Refugee Convention and the ECHR. That is why I reject the motion, but I do say that it is without prejudice to the fact that, in recent years, we have sought, within the scope of international and EU law, measures to speed up the processing of further requests. The coalition agreement also gives impetus to this, and I think that we should finally find a solution to this outlined problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mr President, indeed, I have also expressed my sincere appreciation for this. I think that is in the interests of everyone, of everyone involved. What matters to me in this motion is this. We are now running into the fact that it is not possible. Then this motion is precisely a request to the government to give a clear picture of why it cannot and what we can do about it. What possibilities are there for us to perhaps at this point where there is a gap, a leak in the whole policy, because we are just running into some steps? The motion does not call for concrete steps to be taken now, but for research to be carried out, to take stock of things and then to discuss them, within the strict rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u30	It is precisely for that reason that I think it is purer to discourage the motion. We are aware of the objections that this raises. I have just outlined it to you: the ECHR and the case law of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg. However, the subject of these follow-up requests has the constant attention of both the previous cabinet and this cabinet during the negotiations on this European common asylum system. In doing so, it is the Dutch commitment to be able to continue to handle procedures quickly and to limit the right to receive care during subsequent applications to those with a serious follow-up application. However, I would like to say straight away: we have therefore brought the restriction of this asylum claim to Brussels, but the Netherlands has not received any support for limiting it. This ultimately means that the swift handling of unfounded repeated asylum applications is all the more important. The Netherlands has repeatedly indicated that the Commission's proposals do not provide enough scope to deal with these follow-up applications in a very short period of time, in particular as regards applications submitted at the very last minute with the apparent aim of frustrating the planned return. This is something we will continue to call attention to in the next year in these negotiations. But this isn't a race yet, I say. However, I think it would be wiser to choose this route than to put the question on the table in principle whether we are going to change the ECHR. I don't think so. So we are putting forward concrete text proposals, and we will continue to do so. Finally, Mr Fritsma's motion. Then I come to Mr Grothuizen's question. Strictly speaking, I do not think that I should give an opinion on Mr Fritsma's motion, because it concerns an opinion of the Chamber. But I want to say three things about it. It is not right that I or my services did not have or have any information on this matter, if only because, of course, everything is under the responsibility of a member of the Cabinet. Furthermore, it is also true that members of the cabinet really take a personal look at what is happening in image-defining social issues. During the AO I indicated not to deal with an individual case. I note, moreover, that the motion has a number of considerations on which, if they are true, first and foremost the prosecution and the court must judge. I have also indicated during the AO that, once a sentence has been imposed, the consequences for a possible residence permit can be examined in the alien chain. This is in line with the regulations; I also sent a letter to your Chamber yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u31	If the Secretary of State had knowledge of the residence status of this jihadist and of the way in which he had obtained it, then he acquired that knowledge after the AO of 14 December. Because during the AO of 14 December, the Secretary of State said he didn't know. I have the report here that says that. Then the question remains what the Secretary of State is not going to say: how could he not have gone into questions one week after this attack if: what kind of residence status did this jihadist get, how did he get through the screening, was there a lie, could the right of residence be withdrawn, what better way of screening? Maybe more fell. It is very simple: this is a matter that you must, of course, be on top of, because it affects national security. Let me ask you again: why hasn't the Secretary of State been on top of it personally? I'll keep asking. I have always had no answer to this question during the AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u32	Yeah, and I keep giving the answer that I don't go into such an individual case during an AO. The content of a number of newspaper reports should not be confused with the responsibility of cabinet members for the content of a case. But I still find that it was not up to me at that time, and it is not up to me at this time to address all the individual aspects of a case that are partly in the media, because this is currently at the discretion of the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary. Only then will there be something, an action perspective that we can deal with in the asylum chain. I repeat once again: this means that every time there is an incident in the alien chain, all the services involved naturally look at what new information might emerge and what we learn from it if it was not known before. That really is one of the standard actions of the services. Period. Let me now turn to Mr Grothuizen's question. He asked about monitoring what the Coast Guard is doing in Libya. You have read in the European Council's report that the Prime Minister, in accordance with the Chamber's motion, has called for attention to be paid to this. The next step is, of course, that this is also an issue in the European Union. I cannot say what the European Union has done with this in the last three days. But I can assure Mr Groothuizen and the Chamber that we are naturally on top of it from the Dutch Government. The situation in Libya is poignant, and we have had many exchanges of views in recent debates. I fear that this will concern us a number of times after the turn of the year. That's what drives us to get extra on top of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u33	I thank the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-10.u34	Tonight we shall vote on the motions. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.30 p.m. before dinner and perhaps for some meeting work at various political groups. Then we're going to vote.
