ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the Rule 100 letter on the extension of the Dutch contribution to the fight against ISIS. Tonight we are holding a final debate in one term. So if there are any motions, they must be submitted in that one term. In this debate, the spokesmen are expressing their opinion on whether or not their group agrees to the extension of the Dutch participation in the mission. I would once again like to welcome the Foreign Minister. I also welcome the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u2	Good evening, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad you're still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u3	Did you miss me today or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u4	Yeah, it's always good to see you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. We are talking here tonight about a very serious and important matter, namely the decision taken by the cabinet to extend the Dutch military contribution to the fight against IS by one year, in 2018. Millions of refugees, debris bombed cities, tens of thousands dead and not the beginning of a political solution for the population groups living in Iraq and Syria make new jihadist monsters, an Al-Qaeda 3.0, in the making. That the monster of IS can no longer function as a state in the region is a blessing for Iraq and Syria, but we can hardly speak of a victory, knowing that IS is the product of a fatally failed war that has become permanent. The threat of attacks is unprecedented, not only for people in the Middle East but also for us here and in other parts of the world. The Minister acknowledges this, but refuses to learn from the mistakes of the past. Just carry on with the war, a permanent war, is the motto of the United States, with NATO following. That's the box that colors the minister. So again F-16s are sent to a country that has just declared itself free. Realism and learning capacity are far from being achieved in this strategy. IS may have been forced underground again, but citizens have paid a very high price. Raqqa in Syria, Mosul in Iraq, have been completely destroyed, with a very high number of civilian casualties, particularly those who fought on the ground against ISIS and marginalised populations. For that, the Iraqi Government does not have the beginning of a solution. Iraq and Syria do not need more bombs now, but an end to the war violence and reconstruction of their countries. Mr President, two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that during the re-conquest of Islamic State territory many thousands of civilian casualties, millions of people fled and cities were bombed to ruin;]] [[noting that this also did not remove the breeding ground that allowed for the rise of IS after more than three years of war;]] [[calls on the government not to send F-16s to Iraq again, but to make the funds earmarked for this purpose available for reconstruction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that all sorts of reports indicate many thousands of civilian casualties in the fight against Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, including as a result of air attacks by coalition countries;]] [[Notes that coalition countries consistently report much lower figures on civilian casualties than media and monitoring organisations conducting on-the-spot investigations;]] [[calls on the government within the coalition to promote an independent investigation into civilian casualties through coalition action, preferably in the UN context,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-620]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-621]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. The SP does not support the extension of this military mission to Iraq and Syria, but we naturally wish the men and women who will be broadcast good luck and a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u8	We have now had three deadlines, at least the first speaker in the third term. Mrs Karabulut has been very consistent. From beginning to end, it was about civilian casualties. On the other hand, it has also been argued how many citizens have returned safely to their homes. My question to Mrs Karabulut, through you, President, is actually a very simple one. We have seen how carefully the Netherlands is trying to do these bombings. We have seen that the Netherlands uses Small Diameter Bombs, which means that this care can also be guaranteed to a high degree. And we know how the Netherlands treats the DA. You've been able to see for yourself. Is the chance that with the Dutch contribution, with the Dutch F-16s flying, fewer civilian casualties will not be much greater?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u9	Sorry, the chance that with...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u10	Does it not increase the chance that the number of civilian casualties will decrease if the Netherlands participates?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u11	I wouldn't say that, Mr. Ten Broeke. Of course, everyone's doing their best. But I also said it in the debate: it is a war, and it is not a clean war; we know that. The issue at stake here is that, in coalition terms, the difference between what the coalition reports and what monitoring organisations and, for example, the sublime investigation of The New York Times to civilian victims is very large. I would like your attention to be focused on that. We all want perpetrators of war victims, starting with ISIS, to be prosecuted. But other victims, as a result of coalition action, are also entitled to the truth. The point is that we want maximum transparency. That is what you should be advocating, precisely to show what is or is not the share.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u12	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u13	As for the openness that Karabulut has put forward here, I advocated maximum openness even before she became a spokesperson. So it doesn't make me feel like I'm being talked to. We're not sending out a coalition tonight, we're sending out Dutch F-16 pilots. Dutch F-16 pilots, for example, have been able to learn in all these debates, all those parts of the debates, very carefully do so. I had the hope that that conclusion could be drawn by you at least tonight. If you draw that conclusion, you will make a difference between the coalition action and the Dutch action, because the Dutch will ensure that the greatest degree of care is taken. I'm sorry you can't acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u14	I regret that Mr Ten Broeke does not come forward and say: I support the SP's request for an independent investigation into the role of the entire coalition. I understand Mr Ten Broeke. You may wish to pretend that we are a separate part, but the reality in Syria and Iraq is one cruel reality. There would be nothing against an independent investigation and if the Netherlands gave the transparency that is needed. It could strengthen your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mr. Chairman. On October 7, 2014, two Dutch F-16s threw the first three bombs at ISIS targets in Iraq, and many more would follow. Without this intervention from the Netherlands and other coalition countries of more than 80 countries, the yezidis would have become yet another horrific footnote in the history of genocide. In the meantime, we've been more than three years. Since our intervention, 6.6 million people have been liberated from the caliphate, 2.6 million Iraqis have been able to return to their homes, 500,000 in the last summer alone, instead of having to stay in bitter cold tents. Cities such as Ramadi, Mosul, Tikrit and Raqqa are no longer in the hands of ISIS. Half a million people have returned to Fallujah. The caliphate has shrunk by 95%. More than 48,000 profiles of foreign terrorist fighters are now in Interpol's database. These figures show how successful this mission is. Suppose we hadn't done that, that we hadn't intervened. Then perhaps the black ISIS flags would have wandered in Baghdad, and who knows in Amman or Beirut. Another million extra people in the Middle East would have been displaced and fled, and who knows how many more would have been killed. That would have been a defeat not only for that region, but for the whole Western world, because it is not just a struggle of and in the Middle East. This is a battle of all of us. This is a fight against barbarism under the pretext of true Islam, which we must fight at our external borders in order to stop any hope of Islamic extremists in our inner cities. And although the approach is transforming, that struggle is far from over. In Iraq and Syria, 3,000 foreign fighters are still out there and attacks on the West are still being prepared from the Caliphate. The impact force of ISIS has not yet been broken and the caliphate still exists. And so we cannot leave, with 80 other countries, many of which are Arabic. ISIS is no longer a successful jihadist start-up, but its appeal is still there. It is in the interests of the international legal order and also in our own interest to continue this fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u17	The fact that ISIS was pushed underground is indeed a blessing. But when we zoom out and look at the strategy, we see that 16 years of war against terrorism has resulted in more terrorism, more refugees, more Islamic fighters and more insecurity for us and for people in the Middle East, Africa and other continents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u18	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u19	My question to Mr Ten Broeke is: how long should we continue this ongoing war?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u20	As long as it takes. As long as it is necessary in our interests, as long as it is necessary for the benefit of those who can return to their homes, as long as the flow of refugees from millions of refugees returns to their homes or can prevent them, as long as instability in the Middle East can prevent or combat with all its consequences. As long as it takes, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u21	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Stick your head in the sand and look away from the facts, knowing that this war, which lasts sixteen years, has become permanent, has become hopeless, costs $5 million, provides more terrorism and also gives us more insecurity. The fraction of the VVD, which is blindly associated with the US and NATO, which thus have a strategy of permanent war. War always, always insecurity, which brings more refugees. And that, Mr. Ten Broeke, should make you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u24	Let us stop sending the F-16s and start reconstruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr Ten Broeke, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u26	Stop the war violence, stop the breeding ground...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u28	... from which Al-Qaeda, IS and now Al-Qaeda 3.0 originated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u29	Mrs. Karabulut! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u30	I think the only other thing about this interruption has been the microphone since the last three months, but for the rest I've had it a few times. I don't think I need to answer it again. As far as I'm concerned, all I hear here is a gray record. Sixteen years, the SP Group says. It may indeed take a long time, but at least we are prepared to fight that battle for our own good. I think the Jezidis can tell us, the Kurds can explain it to Mrs Karabulut next time they visit her and there are few who understand why the SP says no to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u32	So we're going to continue that fight. In this conviction, the VVD Group can therefore agree to the decision to make a further contribution to this fight. A battle that can indeed last for many years, but also one that we do not want to avoid, even if we know that this makes us vulnerable again to cowardly attacks by these Islamic nihilists. We are proud of Dutch soldiers. We have spoken in particular about the Dutch F-16 pilots. We're going to re-release them with that same pride. They contribute to this vital struggle, a battle of civilisation against barbarism. It is not only the military, but also all the fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, partners and friends who remain concerned and who will count and strip away the days until their return. Also to these people, the people who carry the enormous burden of uncertainty at home, our thoughts go out today. I wish them all strength and our troops a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Where genocide threatens and crimes against humanity are at stake, the international community has the responsibility to protect citizens and the duty to intervene. That is what I said on behalf of my group in the final third period of the debate we had over three years ago on the cabinet decision to send soldiers to Iraq alone. Looking back we can see that it has succeeded in defeating ISIS almost completely, at least on the battlefield. We must bear in mind that thousands of fighters have gone underground and that they can regroup elsewhere or commit isolated terrorist acts. We also know that the idea has not disappeared, even though it will hopefully lose a large part of its appeal due to the loss of the caliphate. By reducing the caliphate, the coalition has in any case stopped one of the most extreme eruptions of violence in recent history. This violence must not go unpunished. An extreme effort will have to be made to hold the perpetrators to account, preferably for the International Criminal Court in The Hague. In Iraq, all sails will have to be added to keep the peace and, unfortunately, there is still a long way to go in Syria. For the time being, this is about addressing the most acute humanitarian need and stopping the most extreme violations of human rights. Unabated East Ghouta is bombed by the regime. What support can the Netherlands provide in arranging medical evacuation or alleviating humanitarian needs, I ask the rulers. Can the Minister address Russia, Iran and Turkey to the continuation of violence within the so-called 'deescalation zones' agreed by them in Astana? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks can agree to the extension of the Dutch contribution to the fight against IS. It is good that the Netherlands trains troops that provide security for civilians in Iraq in the area of ISIS recaptured. As far as my group is concerned, the contribution our F-16s make is limited to Iraq. There is no such thing as a somewhat persuasive strategy in Syria to protect citizens and achieve stability and peace. There, at present, there is simply no possibility of using military means in conjunction with diplomacy and instruments for reconstruction and development. In Iraq, too, this is a major task. I am therefore counting on us to re-debate in this Chamber when the phase of normalization arrives on the question of the Dutch side's commitment. I also assume, especially after the previous commitments, that the Netherlands in the coalition is making every effort to prevent and be transparent about civilian casualties and that compliance with humanitarian war law is the top priority. For now, I would like once again to pay tribute to all those men and women who are so far away from home and who are extremely professional in their efforts to protect citizens and strengthen the rule of law. I wish them and those who remain behind on behalf of my group a safe mission and a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u35	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u36	Mr. Chairman. Previous speakers also said: since 2014, the Netherlands has been participating in the military mission to defeat Islamic State. D66 has supported that struggle from the very beginning, because of the enormous threat that is Islamic State. Not only in the region, but also for Europe and also for the Netherlands. We do not need to repeat the barbaric things this organisation has on its conscience here again, but I would like to take one thing back from the debate and that is how successful this mission has been in reducing the Islamic State. 96% of the territory they first controlled is now lost and 6.6 million people are liberated. Look at what would have happened if that military weapon, however imperfect, had not been deployed. Mr. Chairman. The coalition against ISIS is in the final stage of defeat. The cabinet itself says that the battle on the ground is now so fast that the planning of the follow-up phase is lagging behind. This is, of course, a major problem, especially in Syria. When ISIS is defeated, that part of our mission ends. Then some of our goals have been achieved. When it comes to Syria, the Minister has expressed his gratitude to him for the fact that there can be no place for Assad in a future Syria. Those are sensible words. But to bring them on the ground to a reality, unfortunately, will still require a great deal. For the Iraq battle, too, when IS has been defeated, the mission's goal, the military goal, may have been achieved, but we still have a lot of work to do. Finally. We have also touched on the issue of transparency in the debate. I do not agree with Airwars that we would do worse than Saudi Arabia, certainly not in view of the thorough process in which, at the end of the day, the public prosecutor is given the opportunity to respond to every effort that has any doubts. That is a process that many other countries do not know. However, I believe that there could be more transparency about the effects and that we could report more accurately on the deployment of weapons. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the fight against IS, the coalition does not yet have a clear line on reporting on military deployment and on accountability for civilian casualties and civil collateral damage;]] [[Whereas, in a democratic rule of law, it is desirable to inform as much as possible and to achieve the greatest possible transparency and accountability regarding military deployment and possible collateral damage and civilian casualties;]] [[calls on the Government, without endangering military personnel, to report in more detail on military arms deployment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-622]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u37	I specifically said 'without endangering military personnel', because that is a very important condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u38	That's exactly what Airwars is asking for. Airwars does not necessarily say that we are doing worse in operational terms than Saudi Arabia, but calls for greater transparency. So fine, that motion. Can I also count on the support of D66 in terms of the coalition's actions as a whole, the big difference between what Airwars, The New York Times and others report and to advocate an independent investigation, preferably through the UN?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u39	In fact, I thought Minister Zijlstra spoke wisely in that debate about a number of things that had previously been exchanged in this Chamber, first of all about what Mr Van Ojik and Mr Ploumen have brought in. If there are doubts as to how our coalition partners relate to international humanitarian law, and if there are reasonable doubts, this can be discussed in discussions. I think the Minister has promised that he would discuss this with his American counterpart and we would get a report on it. That seems important to me, and I think it would be good to do so. The second is: I have also read that article in The New York Times. The discrepancy between what a newspaper finds on the one hand and what the coalition reports on the other hand, with the understanding that in the coalition, as in the Netherlands, investigations can take time; let's face it. In the Netherlands, the D.A. is still investigating two cases. It's just that time goes by. There could be a discrepancy. But an investigation...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u41	Just a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u42	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u43	I will not support an independent investigation. I will, and I believe this Minister has also indicated this, expect the cabinet to discuss this in talks with coalition partners and to ensure that we all pursue the accuracy and the precautionary principles necessary to combat civilian casualties and collateral damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u44	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u45	I find that disappointing, very disappointing. Sure, transparency and discussion: fine. It's not just The New York Times. It is also Airwars and we have had the hearing on civilian casualties, where journalists who have been on the scene also notice the great discrepancy. I think that for the future, and also for doing justice to the victims of civilians, an independent investigation is extremely important, precisely to show that things may be going well or that all these bodies have been wrong for years. I am very sorry that D66 is hiding and content with talks within the coalition. I think this needs to be sorted out. Victims of civilians should also be able to get their rights and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u46	Clear, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u47	Now we've got to be a little sharp. What's important here? As far as my group is concerned, it is indeed important that the families of civilian victims can find out exactly what happened and, if necessary and possible, get their rights. In my view, I should also like to take a look at the Minister here, who also said that he wanted to see within the coalition how to make this kind of reporting easier. So then Mrs Karabulut can say: I want an investigation. It's possible. But I would much rather we do something about how these people can get their rights than we are going to find out exactly what happened, because that is what is going to do, I tell Mrs Karabulut, that this information is coming up. So I would say: do not be disappointed with me, be relatively satisfied with the commitment of the cabinet next to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u49	Yeah, I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u50	Thank you. Oh, Mr Öztürk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u51	Yeah, questioning the independent investigation. It's really weird that D66 doesn't support that and doesn't want to. The family of civilian victims is entitled to that. All those journalists we have heard but also lawyers say: we are not getting good information from the cabinet. What are you paying Why are you working against an independent investigation? What's the harm?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u52	I'm also looking at the clock for a moment, and I'm afraid I'm going to repeat myself. I think Mr Öztürk knows that too. He will also know that the arguments I have just used against Mrs Karabulut will be the same as against him. The military doctrine and the military decision plan of DENK are so complicated and different from the review framework that the rest of the Chamber adheres to, and it is also so completely unclear which military missions DENK could support and under what conditions, that I would challenge Mr Öztürk not to come up with such great political gestures, which sound very but in practice little proposals, but to seek with us the possibilities of actually giving the victims a chance not only to find out what happened, but also, if that is possible, to get their rights. That's what you're doing because of the promise that's been made. I would be the first to ask this Minister to tighten it up, but I am pleased this time. I do not expect any compliments from Mr Öztürk. We also think it is important to increase transparency on the Dutch side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u53	I find it very weak that the spokesperson of D66 first looks at the clock and then hides and tries to question the ideas here. Just answer the question. What can D66...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u54	What wasn't clear about the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u55	I thought I was talking. What could be a reason for D66 to stop an independent investigation? How are you going to explain to your own supporters, who also want to protect civilian victims? Is that because you're in the coalition now, making the turn and going after the VVD? Is that because your own minister is in the cabinet now? Is that because you are in certain diplomatic circles and want to walk behind the diplomatic cabinet? Or is it just because you're afraid that an independent investigation will reveal data...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u57	...who can't justify this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u58	The answers to Mr Öztürk's questions, and there were five, are respectively no, no, no, no and no. In addition, Mr Öztürk's report is a serious one. My qualifications of how you deal with these cases are very serious. I take these kinds of debates very seriously. If you have your own framework, your own military framework to weigh such missions, I wish you every success. If you want to blame me for supporting a cabinet in which my party is in, I wish you every success. But you don't blame me, and I'm far from it, that I wouldn't stand up for the civilian victims. On the contrary, the only concrete measures taken here this evening stem from proposals, not only from my party but also from other parties in the Chamber, but unfortunately I do not want to make that clear, Mr Öztürk, from your party, despite your big, big words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u59	You may respond briefly, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u60	He's not responding on behalf of D66. He's in the process of questioning DENK's ideas. That's a weakness offer. It's a weakness offer if you have to hide behind that kind of argument. Just give me one answer. What are you afraid of in an independent investigation? What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u61	I would very much like to call for this kind of debate, especially when it comes to missions, to be a bit worthy of debate. So I would like to thank you, Mr Sjoerdsma, and you too, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u62	Yes, Mr President, I also think it would be better to leave this unanswered. I think I have gone into what Mr Öztürk said in detail and in detail. I agree with you. It is better to end this debate in dignity than to continue in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u63	Thank you. Then I go to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let us begin with the Minister. In October 2014, 50PLUS agreed to the Dutch participation in the international fight against the Islamic State. Now we are faced with the question of whether we can support the cabinet decision to continue that participation in the international coalition. The problem with our consideration was that it was not entirely clear what the continuation of this commitment would mean in practice. The Foreign and Defence Ministers question Iraqi and Russian statements that the fight against ISIS has been won. It is clear that we are dealing with a new phase in the fight against the remnants of IS, where the stakes will also be different from those of the past years. For this reason, 50PLUS considers it very important that the cabinet informs the Chamber well and very regularly about how the commitment is developing. If that is necessary, we need a new Article 100 letter so that we know what we agree to. Please give me an answer. Unlike the missions in Mali and Afghanistan, we are clearly dealing here with a fight mission. Especially our F-16s are going to play a role in this, although it is clear that this is going to happen in a different way than before. An important argument from the cabinet to continue with this is that the Dutch aircraft and their crew are able to send bombs with great precision to the right goal. According to the cabinet, this reduces the risk of unnecessary civilian casualties. We are pleased that last week, in general consultation, it was promised that the Dutch involvement in civilian casualties will be thoroughly investigated and that the Netherlands will also be committed to an international hotline for civilian victims. We consider that important because as a member of an international coalition, you are jointly responsible for what is being done on behalf of that coalition. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS, like other parties in this Chamber, believes that safety and good medical facilities on the ground are among the most important conditions for consenting to the deployment of Dutch soldiers on international missions. Fortunately, the Minister of Defence made clear statements on this matter last week. In the same consultations, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated that the raffle edges of the mandate would be reached at the time of the deployment in Syria. This requires very careful consideration when it comes to our commitment in that country. The mandate for Iraq is clearer. Despite the fact that the Iraqi Government is so positive about the fight against IS, there is still a request for support from the coalition. As far as we are concerned, it will have to focus increasingly on training and advice rather than bombing. Mr. Chairman. My group agrees with the continuation of its participation in the international fight against IS. We consider it important that ISIS be eradicated with root and branch. What has happened in that area in recent years under that flag is indescribable and must never happen again. 50PLUS wishes all soldiers who are going to participate in it much strength, security and a preserved homecoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u65	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Sjoerdsma has something to say. No, no, it's not meant for you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. In conclusion, and I attach great importance to this in this debate, I forgot to mention that my group agrees with this mission and, of course, wishes all the soldiers involved very much success, as well as their home front. We also wish all men and women a safe return to their homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u67	Thank you. Then this remark has been made. Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you. The terrorists of Daesh are our common enemy, because Daesh or ISIS has caused many innocent victims in Iraq, Syria and also here in Europe. Terrible and cowardly attacks have killed many innocent civilians. That is why it is important that these terrorists be defeated now, that Daesh should not be given a successor and that Iraq and Syria should not be held hostage by new terrorist groups. That is why we believe that the fight against terrorism deserves a permanent solution. That starts by focusing on tackling the causes of terrorism and by asking questions like where Daesh gets his weapons, how Daesh gets money and perhaps the most important question is how Daesh originated. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to another point which concerns my group. We at DENK are very concerned about the number of civilian casualties in Iraq and Syria. Today's coalition against Daesh has launched more than 100,000 missiles from the air, including in urban areas where many citizens live. Airwars' report shows that five times more civilian casualties were made in 2017 compared to 2016. The year 2017 is therefore the deadliest year since the start of the mission in Iraq and Syria. Our F-16s are also participating in the bombings. For example, there have been 1,800 weapons deployments through, for example, bombs, missiles and grenades. The Netherlands is therefore the fourth most active country in the coalition. However, the cabinet gives little or no information on the number of civilian casualties that are being made. According to Airwars, the Netherlands is the least transparent ally in the coalition. DENK doesn't think that's possible. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. As I mentioned in an earlier debate, DENK has three criteria for assessing missions. One of these criteria is transparency. We see, unfortunately, that our country scores a very serious insufficient level in this area. But that's not the only reason we're critical of this mission. We want things to be put in order at home before we go on missions. Our soldiers must be given a good salary, they must be able to count on safe ammunition and they must be provided with decent clothing. Our Defence personnel must be deployed in efficient and effective missions to prevent wars, for example. Unfortunately, the criteria I have just mentioned are not being met or are not being met at the moment. That is why DENK will not support the mission in Iraq and Syria. Should the mission continue, my group wishes the military who participate in the mission a safe return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u69	Thank you. Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u70	I was already standing here because of the first point of DENK's own review framework, namely transparency. Once again the suggestion is raised that the Netherlands would not be transparent and that Dutch F-16 pilots would be the same as what is suggested in the New York Times et cetera. Since we are going to send out Dutch F-16 pilots again here, I ask DENK the same question as Mrs Karabulut. Can you indicate what you are missing in terms of transparency? What are you missing? For this Chamber has heard exactly how many investigations are being carried out and what is still in doubt, four cases in total. One was rejected by the D.A.'s office. Out of the 1,800 times there's been a gun deployment, all the reports have been sent to the D.A.'s office. What do you miss about transparency? There is no country that is so transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u71	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u72	What are you missing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u73	How can an international organisation like Airwars say: we do not get any data? They say they don't get the data and the information they need. How can we have a hearing where lawyers say we have no data, we don't know what happened where? How can Dutch journalists through the NPO show all sorts of broadcasts in which they talk to civilian victims who are crying: where can I go and who can I hold responsible for all these bombs? And then Mr Ten Broeke of the VVD is going to tell the story here that we are transparent. Have you not seen the meetings recently, like Mr Baudet, or are you in a tunnel vision? Mrs Karabulut has tried to get you out of there, but apparently that has not yet been done. When are you coming out of that tunnel? When are you gonna see what all these people see?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u74	Finally, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u75	I find it hard to accept that because I was at all these meetings. I asked about it myself. I have also become clear from the story of the lawyers and Airwars that they didn't even know that all cases were reported to the D.A. Mr Öztürk is doing the same again. He wipes everything that happens there by the coalition in one heap. But we are making it possible for Dutch pilots to be deployed there tonight. And I refuse to allow myself to suffer the same fate. Because they do that carefully. We do that with careful effort. We've been asking extensively about that. And: this Chamber has also been reported very carefully on more than one occasion on each individual case. So I ask Mr Öztürk again what he misses according to his own criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u76	We in the DENK Group have not received any information. At all those meetings I was at, I asked: can you get that information? None of the people I spoke to could tell me anything to help those civilian victims. I see that Mr Ten Broeke is very keen to participate in international missions. I see he got into a tunnel vision and he can't get out of it. That's special to me. I've heard all those people, all the footage of those documentaries in which people crying tell me: my kids died, I lost my parents, and I don't know where to go, I don't know what bomb hit me. 1,800 bombs were fired from the Dutch F-16s. We also make mistakes; we are all human beings. Mistakes will have been made in a number of cases. And finally, Mr. Ten Broeke...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u77	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u78	...we're under the great regime there. Then we get information there to drop bombs somewhere. So that means that we can also make mistakes, because the information may not be right. That's why I'm saying don't go blindly after all the mission requests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u79	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed. You were done, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u80	I see Mr Sjoerdsma walking by. No questions from D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u81	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u82	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u83	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u84	Thank you, Mr President. In 2014, we were confronted with new terror in the Middle East. IS conquered very fast terrain in Iraq and Syria. Millions of people fled. Many thousands have been killed and on our retina are burned the women and the girls who have fallen prey to the barbarity of IS. In other countries too, IS has struck: Turkey, France, Germany, Belgium. In all these countries, attacks were carried out in the name of IS. So there was every reason for the international community to join forces. In an anti-IS coalition, terrorists were fought, Iraqi and Kurdish military were trained and civilians were protected. That happened successfully. Cities have been recaptured, IS has been considerably reduced and our military and all those who support them deserve all the appreciation. The battle isn't over yet. At the same time, we have also concluded in the debate that there may be another phase in the fight very soon. One where within the anti-IS coalition there may be a need for a different kind of support from the Netherlands than the deployment of our F-16s. We don't know yet, but that could be very good. My group therefore considers it important that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made a commitment to return to the House of Representatives when a new phase begins and to consider it in a broader security strategy for the region. The PvdA Group also has two questions for the cabinet. I, too, would like to dwell on the civilian casualties. We have discussed this in general, and I thank the Minister for his commitments on this point. Today we could read in various media that the Battle of Mosul might have killed ten times more civilians than we knew so far. Moreover, these reports are very clear about the fact that these civilian casualties have not only been caused by the intervention of the coalition but certainly also by the actions of IS. How does the cabinet view these figures? We've got that from different sources. And what does that say about the way the coalition talks and reports? Mr. Chairman. A humanitarian disaster is taking place in East Ghouta. Does the Cabinet see opportunities to take action and provide assistance in an international context? Mr. Chairman. For the PvdA Group, it is clear that extending the Dutch contribution to the anti-IS coalition contributes to stabilising the situation in Iraq and Syria. The terrorists are almost defeated, but not quite. The PvdA Group therefore endorses the government's decision to extend the military contribution. We wish the men and women involved in the mission all success and all strength. That is also what we wish for their home front. They must miss their loved ones for a period of time. Of course, and above all, we wish all men and women a safe return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u85	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Ministers for their first and second-term replies. It has become clear that the danger of ISIS has not yet disappeared in Iraq and Syria. The principles of the Christian Union for support for the mission are fulfilled: impartiality in the conflict between the Kurds and Baghdad, questioning the international coalition in terms of transparency on civilian casualties and special attention to girls and women in aid. The Christian Union will therefore follow these commitments closely. I would like to draw attention to the vulnerable minorities. I shall now move on to the next short motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Government is providing humanitarian aid to displaced persons in Iraq;]] [[calls on the Government to pay special attention and support to Christians, LBTs and other vulnerable minorities on return, reconstruction and protection in Iraq,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-623]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mr. Chairman. We also continue to draw attention to the persecution of ISIS fighters. Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs prepared to work in the Security Council, when the Netherlands is a member of it in 2018, to recognise the genocide on the Jezidis and Christians by ISIS fighters? Serious violations by these ISIS fighters must not go unpunished. As regards air support in Syria, Ministers undertook to inform the Chamber as soon as the ISIS supply lines from Syria would cease. This would mean that the international mandate would expire and that our kites would no longer fly over Syria. I'd like an extra confirmation of this. Reconstruction in the Kurdish region of Rojava in northern Syria in particular is now also of great importance. The Christian Union also calls for extra attention to be paid to this. Finally. Iraq, as the Foreign Minister also pointed out in his term, will eventually have to find a balance in the division of power between the Shiites, Sunnis, Kurds and other minorities. What can the international coalition and what can the Netherlands do besides building the rule of law to make a contribution to this? In conclusion, the Christian Union is convinced that an extension of the mission, and therefore our contribution to stability and reconstruction, is now urgently needed. That is why the Christian Union wholeheartedly supports the one-year extension. We wish our soldiers, aid workers and diplomats much wisdom, protection and a safe return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u88	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u89	Mr. Chairman. Islamic State has been treated by the international coalition since 2014 to 28,000 air strikes, with over 100,000 bombs and missiles fired on Islamic State. The Netherlands also made a nice contribution to this. This was successful, because in Iraq IS has no territory under control anymore, and in Syria too, it is likely that it will not be long before ISIS has been driven out of the last Resistance pits. At the latest in February the job will be done there, according to President Macron. Then the question for me is, what are our F-16s going to do there? But where the caliphate disappears, the jihad will continue. We need to realize that. Of course, that happens underground, not only in Syria and Iraq, but also elsewhere. There are already reports of IS supporters continuing the armed struggle in Libya and in other countries where IS-philials nest themselves like some kind of persistent fungus. Even more important, and more worrying, is the flow towards Europe. That's the open border paradise for the jihadhoppers. For the jihad continue, they will continue to do so, not only in Syria and Iraq but possibly also in the Netherlands. Not for nothing the NCTV reported exactly a month ago that the arrows are increasingly directed towards the Netherlands. The PVV therefore wants the government and our armed forces to focus fully on protecting our own territory, our citizens, our public spaces and our borders. The cancer called the caliphate is surgically removed, but the risk of metastases, including in the Netherlands, is enormous. That is why tough measures are needed at national level. The borders must be closed and migration stopped, but above all the Netherlands must be de-Islamicised. If that does not happen, there is a good chance that Islamic scum will also hit our country with attacks and brutal terror. We need our soldiers here in our country now and not in this mess called Syria and Iraq anymore. The PVV will therefore not support the extension of the Dutch military contribution in Syria and Iraq. If it continues to do so, it seems that, of course, I must say, and I would also like to say, that we wish the people who are being broadcast success with their activities, and a safe return to the Netherlands. Not only do they have our great support, but also their family. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u90	Thank you, Mr. De Roon. Then I will go to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Iraq itself celebrated victory over ISIS, a kind of liberation day. Millions of Iraqis have been liberated from the barbaric terrorist organization. 95% of the territory has been recovered. Millions of people are liberated and many can return to their homes. Many ISIS fighters have been located and are now being prosecuted by INTERPOL. The propaganda of ISIS has been exposed. The CDA is initially proud of our military, who made this military success possible through the successful mission with trainers on the ground and F-16s and tanker planes in the air. It is the fate of our soldiers that, if something goes wrong in a mission, there are major debates about that mission, but that the debates as a mission are very successful are about the complex continuation. That is why I deliberately choose to first thank the military and congratulate them on this successful mission. However, we do not dismiss ourselves from the task of looking at this complex continuation, because the battle has not yet been fought. Recently, last month, four senior leaders of ISIS were eliminated in Iraq and Syria within a few weeks. ISIS can proceed to guerrilla, go underground and commit attacks. Not only ISIS can do that, but also other extremists. Of thousands of warriors, we don't know where they are now. In the briefing, the Commander of the Armed Forces mentioned a number of 43.000 jihadists not known by INTERPOL. What happened to them, I'd like to ask the Minister. Some of it died? Some of it's been captured? What's happening to them? Do jihadists return to Europe and the Netherlands? Are they running loose in the Netherlands and are their children registered for our children's seventh grade again? Or do they keep fighting in Iraq and Syria? Others are moving to other areas to feed jihad. Does the anti-ISIS coalition have any idea about that? We must be vigilant. Our commitment in Iraq and Syria remains important. This commitment takes place in a complex environment, which can change quickly. Flexibility is needed, tailored to the needs of the coalition. It is now important to win peace, but the tensions in the region have increased. The CDA is also deeply concerned about Iran's expansion drive. The ayatollah regime sponsors terrorism and destabilises the region. Minorities such as Christians and Jezidis, who were first victims of ISIS, are now faced with Shiite militias that violate human rights. In Syria, the Assad regime continues to besiege cities and there is also a humanitarian tragedy in East Ghouta. More than 400,000 people are at risk. Yesterday, the Chamber received a report in which PAX and The Syrian Institute called for urgent action to stop the bombings, to enable medical evacuations and to ensure unhindered access to food and medicines. Is the cabinet prepared to argue for this too? Madam President. The CDA, and I conclude with that, wholeheartedly supports the extension. We wish our military as much success with the complex sequel as they had in the mission so far. Lots of strength for the home front and a preserved homecoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u92	Mrs Karabulut, a short question. Try it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u93	I'm awake, still. You too. I always do my best to cheer you up. You know that. But I do have a very serious question for Mr Van Helvert. The yezidis have become victims of the IS samples. IS originated from Al-Qaeda. Al-Qaeda is also the product of the illegal occupation of Iraq. Sixteen years of war is counterproductive: more refugees, more terrorism, billions of expenses. How do you explain these results?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u94	Here a list is made as if it was such an easy sum. Was war in an international field but as simple as the SP makes it appear here. He did it, he did it, and he did it, so this is the result. In an earlier debate, we have already crossed swords on this issue. Today, I really want to say that, however, we are discussing the use of Dutch soldiers flying with F-16s and providing training on the ground, precisely to protect people and to make as little civilian casualties as possible, preferably zero. That is why, Madam President, it is important that Dutch F-16s should go to Iraq and Syria. They can, together with the United States, throw out the most precise bombs of all defences. That's why my counter-question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u95	No, no counter-question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u96	Isn't it much better for Mrs Karabulut that Dutch F-16s go instead of others to make sure that fewer civilian casualties occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u97	Mrs Karabulut, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr. Van Helvert, who are you kidding? I ask you for 16 years of counterproductive results. Sixteen years of permanent war has brought us IS and an Al-Qaeda 3.0 is in the making. Sixteen years of permanent war has brought us millions of refugees and hundreds of additional Islamic terrorist fighters. So I repeat my question: how do you explain this? Do we have to go on like this for 16 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u99	Ms. Karabulut of the SP behaves like a teacher who no longer controls her own class and who panics out of class and says, "Everyone's naughty." That is not the case. You have to make a very specific difference in what really happened. Not everyone's to blame, and not everyone's to blame. The point here is that we are trying to help as many people as possible, trying to save as many people as possible. When I look at the mission our soldiers have done so far, it, as the Commander of the Armed Forces says, is going very well in that very complex field of that very naughty class; even more so, faster than expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u100	Thank you, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u101	The SP is talking about a constant war, about an everlasting war, but we have defeated ISIS faster than expected on the territory. Instead of paying tribute to our people, Mrs Karabulut is going to pretend that our people have gone there for 16 years to make civilian casualties. The fact that she stands up for civilian casualties, along with me, is quite right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr. Van Helvert, a brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u103	In a debate in which we are talking about the commitment of our people who have done a fantastic job, pretending to have been civilian victims for 16 years, I find inappropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u104	Are you listening to me or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u105	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u106	A personal fact, Mrs Karabulut, but also keep it brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u107	Yes, chairman, a personal fact. Mr Van Helvert should not put words in my mouth. You are so brave to take this political decision, but I am questioning the strategy and the results. I note that Mr Van Helvert is so brave to send those men and women there, but has absolutely no answer to 16 years of war and its results: more war, more refugees, more terrorism, more insecurity there and here. That's a huge weakness offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u108	This is bullshit. Mrs Karabulut does not know the facts. That is very sad, because she does accuse our people of a number of things; she calls the coalition. 6 million people have been liberated!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u109	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u110	6 million women, children and minorities were oppressed by ISIS and are now liberated! 2.5 million are on their way home. How can Mrs Karabulut say that only more refugees have come through Dutch intervention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u111	Mr President, one more time, because this is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u112	No. One reaction provokes the other. It's just one term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u113	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u114	No, you can't say anything more. Also your microphone is off now. I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party. It is a pity, however, that this is the way it is going, including for the people who are following this debate. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u115	Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals concluded an earlier debate on Iraq and Syria with a quote by Abram de Swaan, Professor of Sociology at the UvA, about the senselessness of participating in this war. I'd like to start with that. I quote: "If IS is indeed driven mainly by shame, resentment and anger, the murderous rage at the present stage of triumph will not quickly decrease. And even once the war takes a turn and defeat seems imminent, that anger will not calm down. On the contrary, with the ultimate humiliation of a lost battle in prospect, the militants will cause even worse massacres, in a'star of the losers'. They will hasten the extermination of unbelievers and heretics, for 'it is now or never', 'it is us against them' and 'it is all or nothing'. Even if they must perish, the eternal enemy will perish with them. That is the mentality of the fanatical mass murderers to the bitter end." The Animal Party has never supported missions in Iraq and Syria. We have always been very clear about this. Crimes against humanity, such as those committed and committed in Syria and Iraq, affect all of us. You don't want to stand idly by. Our contribution to Iraq and Syria should contribute to stability, security and peace. However, we are engaged in an endless war against terrorism and peace in the region is far from being sought. Mr. Chairman. In 2014, the Director-General for Political Affairs spoke very wisely to us by saying that the ideology of ISIS will not be bombed away. He also said that it is even a real risk that military intervention from outside will be misused to fuel this ideology. Now, exactly three years later, it has to be noted that, although IS has hardly any solid ground left in Syria in Iraq, there are more IS fighters in Afghanistan, most likely coming from Syria and Iraq. We understand from the technical briefing that ISIS is now going underground and threatening Al-Qaeda 3.0. Mr. Chairman. This, too, has been said by the Animal Party on many occasions: anyone who wants to achieve peace by all means achieves the opposite. We must remove the breeding ground for war and violence. We need to ensure that humanitarian aid is provided and that extreme droughts in the region are avoided, by making full efforts to combat climate change. Former Commander of the Armed Forces Middendorp also said a year ago: "Climate change contributes to war and migration and is a breeding ground for terrorism." Mr. Chairman. My party will therefore not agree to the extension of the Dutch contribution to the fight against IS. Of course, my group wishes all men and women who are committed to this mission, a safe homecoming, and their families all the strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u116	Thank you, Mrs Arissen. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u117	Mr. Chairman. Should it be that I was standing here on behalf of the Forum for Democracy and that the approval, at least a contribution towards final approval, of the launch of the mission against IS as it is now taking place, I knew what the Forum's position would have been. I'll have to go back to years ago. If we had stood here then, the Forum's position would be one of resistance: we should never do that, we should never begin to do that. And why? Because the arguments that should have convinced us then were non-arguments. We were then driven by considerations and considerations and incriminating appeals from Cameron and Obama, who said: that ISIS, those are isolated villains, had nothing to do with Islam, they were not good Muslims. We had to come to the aid of the people they manifested themselves in. That's what we're gonna do. It is very strange that at the time you had to hear from not really Islamist heads of government who is and is not a real Muslim. That was said of people who think of themselves as Muslim pur sang, the purest on the bone. That should have been an argument for us to say: well, don't take that too seriously. If you could have thought that they might really mean it, you could have said to the Heads of Government: we are not going there with such excuses. Because if they're an isolated bunch of bandits, scumbags that don't belong at all in the culture of their own environment, then they've had bad luck. Because then they're all surrounded by real Muslims. And they can make a very good distinction between fellow believers who cross the line and who are not a real Muslim. If someone also acts violently and is in a minority position, they will know what to do with it internally. That would have been our position. With stray cousins of faith, they can best take their own account. In addition, we should have had our choice determined by the nature and the way that mission should have taken place: with F-16s going there, with bombs and grenades. It sounds a bit bombastic and it will have happened with the best intentions and great craftsmanship, but let's be clear: what they do is death and destruction. And that in a region that most Dutch people have never heard of and where no citizen has ever been asked whether he will appreciate our help. We don't know anything about that. The Dutch people have never been asked whether we believe that this mission should be carried out. Well, then our point of view would have been: that party is off; you should never get started. But yes, we are now in a different reality, we are now in the midst of a military liaison, in which the Netherlands has committed itself to allies. The Netherlands has become attached to a reality where we ourselves are fighting, working by... I do not want to say "have entangled us" because that has to tell history. But we are in a reality that we have created ourselves. You cannot distance yourself from that with good decency, not without shame, for you have worked with your alliances to shape reality. Then if you distance yourself, you can't do it without shame. So Forum's position, more or less in arren were now, must be: it has to be. It can't be any different, but it's in hope of blessing. We're still in a situation where the condition we found when we contributed to the mission is the same one we'll see when the job's done. If the gunpowder fumes have blown away, what do we find? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u118	You're gonna wrap it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u119	Does it then appear that the majority of the population is grateful for our help and has become susceptible to democratic desires? We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u121	Or do we get new kongsi with despots, with religious sharpeners, who take sides against ourselves? Who knows the Taliban, all fattened up with American weapons, who then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u122	No... You are way past your speaking time!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u123	I have one more question for the Minister, may I, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u124	Well... There's a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u125	Oh, that's going to extend my speaking time. That's kind of nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u126	You now understand how it works! Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u127	Madam President, we see the Forum for Democracy so little. Let him ask that question. He only comes here once in a while. Let him ask that question. He was most pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u128	Do you think that's an appropriate remark? Can I make one, too? Just a personal fact. A personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u129	Yeah, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u130	Is it possible for the Registrar to give an account of the fact that I am standing here, and that it is known to the D66 Group that I am standing here? They can count very badly there. But Mr Öztürk has also lost count. I always see him here, I'll give him that. What is it? Oh, you have to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u131	You had a few questions for the Minister. You may ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u132	Oh, to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u133	If you put it short and fast. To the Minister, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u134	We are sitting there now, and I have said that it has to stay that way for a while, because it is difficult to do otherwise. But now that we're there, we need to focus on a situation that, when the powder fumes are blown away a little, a lot of people are incurable against us, civilians and IS fighters. While we are sitting there, can we, with the help of the coalition, ensure that everyone, including Dutch, who is a danger to Dutch public order, stays there and is arrested, prosecuted and tried? Does the government intend to take all possible steps to this end? I have seen in the letter that people will now focus on the persecution and the trial of the types I describe here. That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u135	Thank you. Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u136	When it comes to missions, it is very good to see and question a member of the Forum for Democracy here. The last time someone from the Forum for Democracy was here, Mr Baudet was wearing a safety vest. He had a right point, namely that our soldiers were not well facilitated by the cabinet. I thought: we have an ally; we can now move together in all these AO's, in all these debates, to provide defence personnel with material so that they go on a proper mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u137	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u138	If the claim of the Forum for Democracy is that the military are not well facilitated, how can you send these soldiers to a war situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u139	As soon as we get complaints from people who are operating in the areas we are talking about now, and not Mali, we will be the first to confront you with the flaws of that plane, Mr Öztürk, with a model F-16 that is a problem. But you can rely on the F-16s, because there's a kite in there and it's worth a lot of money being well maintained, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u140	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u141	Those F-16s must also be supported by our military. The last time Mr Baudet had a whole story here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u142	That was about Mali.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u143	I haven't seen him since. He often seems to be in expensive hotels to talk to extreme right-wing and racist people, so he doesn't have time to talk about our military, about their material, here...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u144	Well, I can tell you, he also wears his combat clothing, you know, Mr. Öztürk. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u145	My point is: can you as a Forum for Democracy be more present here to support our military rather than spend all the time on extreme rightwing and racists in all kinds of hotels? That was my question, Mr President. I think Mr Hiddema agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u146	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u147	Well, I have the impression that our F-16s, if they work very purposefully, also right-wing extremists, but then religious fanatics, will surely hit. Well, we'd better hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u148	A very long story to tell that the Democracy Forum would certainly have been against this mission, but that they are now absolutely voting in favour. I have two questions, and perhaps one more comment to begin with. Let's start with the comment. No one would have asked for that military intervention, Mr Hiddema argued. I can remember no clearer cry from recent history than that of the Jezidis on the mountain there in northern Iraq who were about to be destroyed. A clearer cry for help, I haven't seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u149	And now the question, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u150	And now for the two questions. One. What does Mr Hiddema think of the mandate to fly over Syria? And two. What does he think of the medical supply chain for our military?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u151	I didn't understand that last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u152	For does Mr Hiddema think of the medical drain chain as it is now designed for our military in these two missions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u153	I have no objections whatsoever to the way in which the operations are now being carried out. I hope that this will be done exquisitely and I hope that the people who have to deal with it will create a great deal of satisfaction and honour in their work for themselves. I wish them all the best. So that's where I'm not critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u154	Finally, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u155	I ask Mr Hiddema two things. One. What does he think of the mandate to fly over Syria? This is an important issue which the government has been discussing for quite a long time. The second question is, of course, a serious one. If we send our military on mission, we must be sure that the conditions for this mission are in order. Let me ask you something else. Is Mr Hiddema satisfied with all the medical evacuation capacity as arranged in this mission? And I'm also curious about the explanation, so if so, why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u156	This is an exceptional moment in this Chamber: someone who has to explain why he is satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u157	That's not an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u158	Proceed, Mr. Hiddema. Oh, that's it? No, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u159	Mr President, I appreciate that Mr Hiddema is here today. We have three terms here. It is a special assent procedure in which the parliament has a heavy responsibility to bring military pilots, but also soldiers who provide ground training, possibly in dangerous conditions. That requires us to deal with this very carefully and look at all kinds of apparent details to ensure, for example, the safety of those soldiers. One of these important details is the medical supply chain that my colleague Sjoerdsma has just asked for. We always do that very carefully. So it is not unimportant that tonight we also have a forum for democracy, which has announced this evening that we do not support this mission in its original form, but that we should not unravel the allies, if I have understood correctly, to hear what they actually think...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u160	I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u161	What do you really think, Mr President? I think I am speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u162	Finish your question. Then I'll give you the floor, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u163	How does Mr Hiddema feel about the fact that the medical supply chain has been arranged as it has been arranged? This is crucial for our military.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u164	I have no objections at all to the substance of the regulation as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u165	Finally, Mr. Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u166	Then there is the mandate, which has just been asked for. Can Mr Hiddema answer the following two questions? One. How many Dutch soldiers are we broadcasting and how do you feel about that? Two. On the mandate: we were invited by the Iraqi Government to do so following an appeal from the US President to prevent genocide. I think we have all been able to see that this is the case. You have just said that you believe that these Dutch pilots are causing death and destruction. That is literally what you have just said, but you still want to continue this mission. Can you explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u167	Well, I can explain that very easily. Since we could not create any obstacles to this mission at the time, a mission has come. Now that we can talk about this for the first time, we are in a situation where the allies, together with the Netherlands, have created a military reality in the coalition that we have been fighting to contribute to. Then it does not apply to you at this stage, given that reality, to distance yourself from your allies, for then you do that damage. That cannot happen without shame, I told you. So I fully agree with you: the current course of the mission can be approved by my party, so the extension can also be approved. It is only a pity that it came to that mission, I would have to say afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u168	I'm going to see Mrs Ploumen. Otherwise, I will go to Mr Bishop, because he will be the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u169	I have a very brief comment, not a question, but rather an appeal to all colleagues. We have a debate here in which we agree or disagree with sending soldiers to a dangerous area. If I was the mother of one of those women and men and I was watching at half past five tonight, then I was going to wonder who we're having this debate for. If the shoe fits, put it on. But I would like to ask all colleagues: we have our political differences, but let us have the debate with respect for each other and with respect for the people who go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u170	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. And you, too, Mr. Hiddema, thank you very much. Then I will go to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP as the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u171	Mr President, thank you very much. Let me begin by expressing my gratitude for the course of the battle in Iraq and Syria so far. Let me say that I think, no, that I am deeply convinced that it was a blessing that a number of years ago a coalition was formed that also the Netherlands was willing and able to make a contribution against the evil that arose there. You could almost say "the ultimate evil" when you look at the way propaganda was done, when you look at the way people were treated, how people were slaughtered, how minorities were suppressed. I think it is a blessing that there have been countries in this world that have actually taken up their responsibilities to promote the international legal order where possible. I am pleased that our country has also been able to contribute to this. I would therefore like to express my appreciation for the efforts of all those who have helped to achieve this result. I acknowledge that the battle is not over. The Islamic State may have been defeated, that jihadist terrorist gang may have been reduced to 5% of the original territory they owned, but that has not ended the fight against jihadism. The fight against terror continues. It will continue to grow in other forms. I think it is good that strategists are already considering this. It is also necessary to complete that task. That means extending the mission and supporting that extension. On behalf of the SGP, we wish all concerned wisdom and care. Above all, we wish them the Guardian of Allah. It is also necessary to start reconstruction. People have been driven out of their homes. It is part of the recovery that people are also given the opportunity to provide their livelihoods. Hence a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas religious minorities in Iraq and Syria, in particular Christians and Jezidis, have been extremely affected and are under the rule of ISIS;]] [[Whereas these religious minorities also need the security of secure citizenship, religious freedom and the opportunity to contribute to reconciliation and the building of society in the post-ISIS era;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with coalition members in the fight against ISIS, to actively pursue a close and lasting involvement of Christian and other religious minorities in efforts to stabilise and rebuild Iraq and Syria,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Van Helvert. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-624]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u172	Mr. Chairman. We have already had two deadlines in a general discussion on this mission and I have started the cabinet contribution with a quote from a documentary on what ISIS has committed to crimes. I am not going to repeat this for the sake of time, but I think that anyone who looked at it, at least all the Members of Parliament present, can still remember those images. Terrible crimes. That mission is, therefore, a little along the lines of what happened at the end of the debate, because it was some kind of prestige object. This mission was created because there was a bitter need to prevent large-scale killings and further crimes against humanity. We can have very extensive debates which I have had with Mrs Karabulut about the causes and going back. There are many interlinkages between events. That's what I said back then. There are also differences of opinion on what exactly is the root cause, but I agree with Mrs Karabulut that, of course, where military efforts are being made, which is literally accompanied by shrapnel and therefore leaves people behind in grief and sometimes with hatred because of something that has been done to them. We're not running away from that. That is why the debate that has actually been held very widely by the Chamber, and fortunately with respect on this point, about civilian casualties, is also important. For every civilian victim who falls into a struggle like this, makes sure that there is another seed for possible future extremism, and that is what you want to avoid. That's why many MPs have emphasised this, and rightly so, the use of Dutch F-16s is so important. Together with the Danish and American F-16s, Dutch F-16s are the only ones on this globe that are able to bomb with such precision as happens there, to minimise the number of civilian casualties and thus minimise the negative effects. But even so, where it happens, there has to be clarity about it. I would also venture to say that the Dutch Government, in fact, let me say carefully that it seeks and strives for transparency and where it can do better it will also try to improve it. I heard Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. That was the motion in part No. 622. Let me say that we cannot ignore this call for transparency and we are not going to do so. First of all, I would like to stress, partly on behalf of the Minister of Defence, that I too, on behalf of her answer in this debate, am already doing a great deal. Reported weekly. Not at the moment, by the way, because there are no F-16s, but we did and we're going to do that again. Where there is doubt, cases are submitted to the D.A.'s office, which is truly unique in the world, and they are being investigated. Two cases have been investigated and two are still in progress. I can also assure you, on behalf of the Minister for Defence, that there is a willingness on the part of the government to see if we can report in more detail in those weekly reports on targets, on numbers of bombings and on the location of bombings. We want to make an effort to shape that without us being very pleased with what Mr Sjoerdsma explicitly said and thereby endangering the mission and the military, because that is an operational objective that I believe we all share. We want to be transparent, but this transparency should not endanger the military's commitment. I also have a request because I am sure that it will not be so intended by the authors of the motion. In the second recital you say: 'whereas it is desirable to inform as much as possible in a democratic rule of law'. I agree with you, but it would almost imply that this is not the case now. Honestly, that is the case now. We're gonna do what I just said. I would almost say that we can take over the motion. I can also say: Judge Room. But I would also almost like to say that if we take that second recital out, then we are even more in agreement than we already are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u173	Mr. Sjoerdsma. No discussion; do you remove that consideration or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u174	I'll leave out all the commas, that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u175	Then I would like to say that the cabinet will take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u176	Does anyone object to taking over the motion in part No. 622? That is not the case. Then the motion is taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u177	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna try to get the other spokesmen off in order. Mrs. Karabulut. I have just briefly referred to it, but I do not think that we are going to agree on all matters. I see the points you're indicating. The motion in part No. 620, which actually asks not to carry out the mission, advises the cabinet. For the motion in part No. 621 on the independent investigation, I would like to refer to the commitment already made by the Minister of Defence in general consultation, which was also referred to. It has been promised that we will work for an international hotline where all civilian casualties can be reported. Mr Van Rooijen also referred to what is happening there. In that light, we wish to discourage this motion. Mr Ten Broeke rightly pointed to the Jezidis, as did Mr Sjoerdsma and others. Thank you for agreeing to the mission. Mr Van Ojik spoke about bringing him to justice at the Criminal Court. Let me be clear: that is not possible at the moment because both Iraq and Syria have not recognised the Criminal Court. Our commitment, which I can also give you, is to allow them to do so. Before that, we, the Netherlands, have made a great deal of effort in the United Nations, and we continue to do so, for example to set up the evidence bank. 'Cause before you can prosecute, you're gonna need proof first. At least that is what we are setting up now, so that we can proceed to prosecution at a later date. To be honest, we prefer to do so always in the country of origin, but if that were not possible, you could end up in a situation that could go to the Court of Justice in the end. Our efforts are directed towards this, but at the moment that is simply not possible. Either the United Nations should refer it first, or they should join the Criminal Court. Both are not the case at the moment; I would like to point that out to you. Mr Kaag will answer the questions of you and Mrs Ploumen on East Ghouta, where there is indeed a terrible situation, but she goes into that further. I repeat the commitment from the general consultation that Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Ploumen, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Van Rooijen asked for, namely that the government keep the Chamber informed where new stages in our efforts will take place. I say to Mr Van Rooijen: if a change of mandate is taking place, we will, of course, use a new Article 100 letter where we want to follow up, but a new phase does not necessarily mean a new mandate. But I admit that if there is a new phase, which will most likely have consequences for the way in which military forces are deployed, and perhaps also for the amount of the effort, the Chamber will hear it. In this respect, Syria has also been specifically asked for. When we cross the border of the mandate, that is the situation of self-defense from Iraq, because we do not have a request from the Syrian regime, for obvious reasons, then the mandate is gone and the commitment in Syria stops. There can be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u178	Before you proceed, I have just come to the conclusion that Mr Sjoerdsma c.s' motion. in piece No. 622 is being taken over, but that is not possible at all because that motion is being changed. So that motion is just going to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u179	Then I'm just gonna make a judgment room out of it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u180	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u181	The amended motion is judgment room. That is the opinion I am giving, because I have understood Mr Sjoerdsma correctly that he is going to implement the amendment I have requested and then judge Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with Mr Van Ojik. Minimize civilian casualties. You have discussed the reporting method. I hope that I have responded to this with the hotline indicated by the Minister of Defence earlier. Compliance with humanitarian law of war. Mr Sjoerdsma already mentioned what we exchanged in the AA. The United States has confirmed that the rules of engagement have not changed. At that time, I started to think again, because that debate was carried out very specifically by you. I also sent a letter after it. I have written to my colleague Mr Tillerson that the legitimacy and success of this coalition depend partly on the respect we have for international humanitarian war law. I have also mentioned explicitly that there must be protection of prisoners and protection of persons who do not or no longer participate in the armed conflict. I sent that letter after our interview, just to be clear. You know the Americans. They will undoubtedly send that to 36 lawyers, but if I get an answer, I will inform you again. Even if it was only because there should be no misunderstanding about such matters. In the end, I agree with you. Mr. Sjoerdsma. Thank you for saying that this mission has clearly been successful. I agree. That's a good thing to say. I went into transparency and Tillerson. Then I come to Mr Van Rooijen. I entered the civilian casualties hotline and the mandate. Finally, it has been asked whether training will increasingly be used in the field of training. The answer is, frankly, no. The mission has two parts. I just went into Syria. When the mandate changes there and we do not use Syria for self-defense, it ends there. The presence of F-16s in Iraq is at the invitation of the Syrian government and is also to ensure that where ISIS gets back above ground, we can push them away again. Another part of the mission is already training. The nature of the training will change. I said the same thing in the AO. It becomes more, in professional terms, "hold training," so it can hold and stabilize occupied area, instead of training in active actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u182	You said that in general consultation, but Mr Van Rooijen was not there. So it is really the intention to ask a very short question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u183	The Minister said that we will hear it as a Chamber when a new phase enters. I had asked if there could be grounds for a new Article 100 letter. The Minister said that if there is a new phase, there is not yet a new mandate. Can he be clear about that? Is there going to be a new Article 100 letter? If so, is it also about a new mandate? Or does the mandate just stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u184	A new phase does not necessarily mean a new mandate. The current mandate also covers the standardisation phase which is part of this mission. Imagine, purely theoretically, that we would like to give another interpretation in Syria, after this mandate had expired. That would mean a new mandate and a new Article 100 letter. As far as Iraq is concerned, we are moving towards a standardisation phase. Despite the fact that this does not require a new mandate and therefore does not require a new Article 100 letter, I made the commitment in the AA and I do so again, that we will inform the Chamber about what that means. This will, of course, also give you all the opportunity to hold the debate with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u185	No, really, I'm not gonna let you argue. I'm so sorry. I suggest the Minister move on. No, Mrs. Karabulut, really. I just want to speed things up, because this has been discussed extensively in general consultation. Only when it comes to your motion. Don't argue. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u186	Mr President, I respect your decision, but I rise because you said that one question was allowed. Will you allow me to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u187	Yes, but no discussion and only about your motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says he does not want an independent investigation of the civilian victims because he is going to advocate a hotline in the international context. Can the Minister tell us at what time we will be informed about this and can the information also be added in what way the control is taking place? Because on-the-spot control is now the problem. Question two is about the other motion. Contrary to other colleagues, I am pleased that the Minister does recognise that there is a problem in the strategy, that the soil is not gone and that there is still a permanent war going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u189	Short reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u190	The Minister says he wants this mission to continue. Could the Minister then perhaps promise that he will look at these results, that he will think about the future...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u191	Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u192	and maybe come up with an exit strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u193	I am now being drawn to conclusions that I have not drawn. I didn't question the strategy. I have merely put into question that where you make military efforts there are literally shrapnel, that these shrapnel can lead to grief and even extremist feelings towards the future and that we should not hide it. Because that's the case. This is not the same as calling into question the whole strategy. Let me be clear about that: that is not the case, because we would not have deployed that mission at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u194	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u195	But I think you should also be open about these kinds of adverse effects, because they're just there. The commitment on the timing of the hotline was made by my colleague from the Defence Department. Now I'm desperately looking back or I'm seeing fingers indicating the number of months. I don't see them. Then I'm just gonna promise that we'll send you in writing at what time we think we can bring that in. That's one. In addition, you will also need cooperation from the coalition, but if there is an answer to that, you will of course get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u196	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Öztürk...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u198	Just for a second. A procedural remark, I hear, about that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u199	Yes, yes, certainly, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't dare do otherwise at this time of night. Can that letter also answer the question as to how control will be carried out, since the Minister rejects independent investigations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u200	It's not about research, it's about a hotline. Citizens must have a point where they can claim to be affected by bombardments and claim to be victims of coalition bombing. In order to set up such a hotline, my colleague has promised. We will inform you at what time my colleague intends to be able to do so in a coalition context. I dare say, on behalf of my colleague, that my colleague will let us know what his answer is and what possible implementing aspects are attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u201	If that letter is available, you have the opportunity, Mrs Karabulut, to speak about it again. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u202	I think I remember that the Minister of Defence would be able to make it at the next meeting of the anti-IS coalition and that it was at the beginning of February. I say that because that also indicates a bit of the time frame. So it's not something we hope to get in August but sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u203	Mrs Ploumen paid more attention at that time than I did myself, as it turns out. I see nodding movements from the supporting field. So I dare say before the Acts that the direction that Mrs Ploumen has just outlined is probably the right one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u204	Thank you. Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u205	I'll finish quickly, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to point out to Mr Öztürk that the Minister of Defence has promised in the AO to conduct the confidential briefing that has taken place on civilian casualties and the way in which the Dutch Air Force is accountable for this, also in this committee. That's what was done on the D.O.D. Commission. In view of the debate, I think it would be wise to implement that commitment as soon as possible. I hear some things come across in statements that might be a little more nuanced once that briefing has taken place. That promise will be kept. Mrs Ploumen was right to point out that the battle is not over yet. I reiterated the commitments that were also important to her. How do we look at the figures of the civilian victims? Mosul also came forward. We cannot confirm the figures on the level of civilian casualties, but it is quite clear that in the Battle of Mosul citizens, too, ISIS frequently used as a human shield. Many civilians have been killed by the use of IS. Citizens have also been killed by the coalition; that is certainly the case. That is also apparent from the figures. That does not seem to me to be "that's" a significant part of the result of the fact that people have actually been used as shields. But we need more details, so I can't make any more informed statements about that. My colleague goes into East Ghouta. Then I come to Mr Voordewind. I need to see what motion it was about. Oh, that's what my colleague's gonna say. Then there is the recognition of the genocide in the UN Security Council. The cabinet has promised to come forward with a letter about genocide before Christmas. I have every reason to believe that we can do that. I would also like to have that discussion in that context. I have already referred to the mandate. Mr Voordewind explicitly asked about the Baghdad-Erbil balance sheet. I am pleased to repeat that this balance should be there, not just in our efforts. We will also appeal to the parties there where necessary if they take action in our opinion which does not do justice to this balance. I would like to take Mr De Roon's question along with Mr Hiddema's question. I thank Mr Hiddema for supporting the mission now. It was actually two mirrored reasonings. Mr De Roon's party supported this mission from day one. To be honest, I didn't think his comparison with cancer was so crazy, no matter how horrible that disease is. If you stop fighting cancer too soon, the disease is not gone and you're still screwed. I hear what the PVV says, but we have clearly established in the debate and in all the underlying documents that although ISIS has largely disappeared above ground, there are still thousands of IS fighters on the ground. I do not think that has been contested by any party. I would really like to emphasise that once again in one last attempt to influence your voting behaviour. Mr De Roon, in his own imagery, states that the cancer has not yet disappeared. Then it would be extremely unwise to stop the treatment. I hope that you will reach a different verdict before the vote, because you are actually making a reverse move as I have seen Mr Hiddema do, whose reasoning for rejecting the mission with retroactive force I could not quite follow. I say that honestly, given the many deaths that would otherwise have occurred, but whose approach I find realistic at this very moment. I hope that the PVV will also return that realism before the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u206	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u207	Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van Helvert. I would like to underline his warm words to all those who have worked. This applies not only to our military, but also to all people who have worked for different programmes, such as fighting IS on the Internet, sending counter messages and combating radicalisation. We must not forget that too. Then Mrs Arissen of the Party for Animals. It's always dangerous to ask a question back. I've listened interestedly to Professor De Swaan's quote. I would ask Mrs Arissen to hold that quote against the actual mission. What he described in that quote is not what happened, just the opposite. I believe that the quote shows that if you hold it against the mission, this mission has achieved something else and that the continuation of the mission is wise for that reason. I have dealt with Mr Hiddema. Mr Bishop's motion is also dealt with by Mr Kaag. Then I have had all the motions and then I have nothing but, fortunately like all the MPs, our soldiers, who are sent there as a result of the forthcoming decision to wish success as well as a safe return and wish their families much strength, because it is the hardest time they can have: the uncertainty of the stay of relatives abroad. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u208	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u209	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. First of all, I would like to comment briefly on the Voordewind/Van Helvert motion on item No. 623. Of course, the Netherlands has long been providing support in Iraq through NGOs, the UN and the Dutch Relief Alliance. This aid is, of course, provided on the basis of the humanitarian imperative. This means that the most vulnerable, no matter who they are, are Christians, Jezidis, Muslims, Sunni, Shia. "The most vulnerable" is always the first humanitarian aid criterion. That is what we continue to do. No distinction is made on the basis of faith or any other grounds. But the coalition agreement makes it very clear that special attention will be given to minorities, Christians and Jezidis, but also, of course, Ihbtis. So I would like to leave this motion to your Chamber's judgement, stating that this is actually a confirmation of existing policies. Mr Van Ojik and Mrs Ploumen asked what the Netherlands can do about the situation in East Ghouta. As you know, action and access to besieged territory is extremely difficult. From a political point of view, however, in the field, both the UN, NGOs and of course also in New York and the Netherlands bilaterally and multilaterally, all resources are deployed by the International Syria Support Group, the ISSG. So far, Russia has not been prepared to exert sufficient pressure on Damascus to mediate humanitarian access. But Jan Egeland continues this as a humanitarian coordinator from Geneva. The EU has also issued a statement through the European Commissioner for Emergency Aid Stylianides. And we keep giving money. There is also a special pot for East Ghouta that is ready, and where money can be collected by the UN and NGOs on the spot, as soon as access, if only for a day, is possible again. We're, like you, incredibly concerned. I also took good note of PAX's report, which was recently presented. It remains a huge concern. I can't say otherwise. The last point is the motion tabled by Mr Bishop and Mr Van Helvert in respect of item No. 624. This motion concerns me, if I may say so, because a number of things are grouped together in the last paragraph. Of course, I appreciate the call and the commitment, but at any time of reconstruction by the international community, not only by the coalition members in the fight against ISIS, a plan of action will be drawn up. This is always done with all those involved: citizens, civil society organisations, and certainly not only Christian or other religious minorities. For example, people who identify as lhbti are not mentioned here. My other concern is that Syria is mentioned in this, while the political conditions to speak of reconstruction in Syria are far from being discussed. So I have a great deal of appreciation and respect for the intention, but some of the elements that are being appointed are now politically out of the question. At the same time, there are large groups of people who have not been appointed. Finally, I would like to point out that, in the end, the entire civilian population has always suffered under any regime, any terror, any violation of human rights; sadly, the concept of genocide has already been reviewed. So I advise against this motion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u210	Thank you. Mr Van Helvert has a short question. What motion would you like to ask a question about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u211	On the Bishop/Van Helvert motion, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u212	I also see Mr Bishop standing. One of them can ask a question, not both.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u213	Oh, all I saw was "Bishop/Van Helvert." I thought it was one name. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u214	No, not both. But you may ask the question of Mr Bishop, the first signatory. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u215	I still have a question for the Minister. The "in consultation with coalition members" is not for nothing. Of course, I understand the Minister's objections. One of her objections is that the reconstruction of Syria is not yet at all under discussion. I have every sympathy for that. If the negotiations with the coalition colleagues will soon show that this is not the case, then that is simply not the case either. In my view, the wording 'in consultation with coalition colleagues' gives the Minister the opportunity to say to the Chamber: we do, and we also want to involve that population. What has moved Mr Bishop and myself is that we wanted to emphasize these groups, but without excluding others. Does that still have an impact on the Minister's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u216	My apologies for forgetting Mr. Van Helvert. It's late hour, I guess. I appreciate it very much, but as far as I and the cabinet are concerned, this motion needs a rewording at the moment. It must then be more precise, or leave out elements, or, for example, add important sections of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-20-tweedekamer-10.u217	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I thank both ministers. I thank the people who have followed this debate, as well as the MPs, the messengers and the staff. The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow.
