ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and also my colleagues. The next item is the reply and rejoinder. We begin with Mr Koopmans, who speaks on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. In my previous relationship with peace mediation, I have seen many beautiful constitutional texts. As an example, I quote Article 33 of the constitution of Syria: "Freedom is a sacred right. The State guarantees the personal freedom of all citizens and protects their dignity and security." We wish it were true. In the end, it's not about the text. A constitution must be lived. The Dutch Constitution is not only a legal treatise on rights and state institutions. It is the written heart of our country. Each of us has to make that heart beat, whether we're politicians, judges or cyclists. For example, by respecting each other's equality, by bringing suspects to justice and by using democratic means to realize our ideals. In short, the Constitution, you are. Nevertheless, we are often not sufficiently aware of what that means. Hardly anyone has read the Constitution. She is a reality, because the Dutch trust that she exists. But at this time of value discussion, of newcomers and of political uncertainty, that confidence could use some strengthening. The confidence that the Netherlands has a solid basis. The confidence that the Netherlands will remain the Netherlands. An opening sentence in the Constitution can help that confidence in at least two ways. Firstly, it makes it easy for pupils, newcomers and all Dutch people to know what the Constitution stands for. Secondly, a general provision provides a basis for review of new laws. The VVD welcomes the positive words that the Minister has spoken about our amendment, which reads: The Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. Compared to the government proposal, this amendment aims to keep the order of the Constitution itself: first fundamental rights and then the other elements of our democratic rule of law. It wishes to point out that fundamental rights are not subordinated to democracy and aims to reconcile the various proposals made by the government, the state committee and others. This is done in particular by the inclusion of the words 'democratic rule of law', as mentioned in the proposals of the State Commission and of colleagues Van Engelshoven, Öztürk and Baudet, and as mentioned in the explanatory statement to the proposals of colleagues Özütok and Segers. These elements are inextricably linked to each other. Former Minister Hirsch-Ballin pointed out that democracy and the rule of law are not available separately. So our amendment also wants to be seen as the result of a joint effort. Certainly, we around the Binnenhof have a lot of differences of opinion and insight. Those differences are even an important reason why we're here. But in the end, we all want to strengthen trust in the Constitution in our own way, in our shared way. This also strengthens the Netherlands and the Dutch. Because the Dutch Constitution lives because it is experienced by us Dutch. The Constitution, you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Engelshoven on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u4	Are you sure, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u5	That's what's on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u6	I speak earlier because Mr Van Raak was so charming last time to lead my maiden speech on his story. Thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. I can be brief in this second term. On one thing, this Chamber agreed in the first place: the wording proposed by the Cabinet does not entirely meet the expectations of this Chamber of such a provision. Mr Van der Staaij said that very strikingly in his words: rather lean than sober. My group chooses to stay as close as possible to the proposal of the State Committee. That is what Mr Segers said aptly about in the first term: then you must do it completely. I therefore commend his sub-amendment warmly in your interest. In my view, we are most likely to adopt this general provision by the broadest possible majority. That state committee hasn't given it any proper thought for nothing. With the State Commission, D66 believes that it is very valuable to include in the Constitution that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. This is the fundamental starting point of our Constitution, which has not yet been explicitly mentioned. Then why am I so attached to that second and third paragraphs? That is because it further defines the concept of the democratic rule of law. With the State Commission, I believe that this makes sense, not only for the purposes of applicability, but also for the purposes of access to the Constitution, and I would like to stress this to Mr Koopmans, precisely because people can understand their relationship with the government, and precisely because we want the Constitution to live more in our society. The Minister is now used to it from me; moreover, I believe that the constitutional review of laws should be carried out in the Netherlands. Only then will the Constitution really be alive and this bill, whatever it may look like, will only really be strong for people in concrete situations in their daily lives in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you very much. The next item is Mr Van Raak, on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. Let me look it up: "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground shall not be permitted." That is the first article of our Constitution, and I think that is a good article. The question is whether we are going to change that. Are we going to put a new article in front of it? I'm standing here with very mixed feelings. Why are we standing here today? This has been an initiative of the Supreme Court. By way of a motion on 7 February 2012, it instructed the government to introduce a new general provision into the Constitution. That is remarkable, because the First Chamber has no right of initiative. She could have asked us if we wanted to take the initiative. I wonder whether it is very constitutional for the First Chamber to move a legislative amendment by means of a motion, yes, even an amendment to the Constitution. The reason was a discussion in the Constitutional Commission, in which it was said that such a general characterization of the Constitution was of great importance. Normally, such a general characterization is something for a preamble, which precedes a constitution. But the state committee was against that. The state committee said: no, it really has to be in the Constitution. Then it becomes binding and you will soon have a discussion about the nature and character of the Constitution and about the nature of our country. That is a very political discussion. Different politicians from different political groups in this Chamber can think very differently about this. If you want to write that down, you get an incredibly epistle that leads to all kinds of discussions or a meaningless sentence. The government has chosen "the Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. Why is that meaningless? Not because it is not important, because our democracy, our rule of law and our fundamental rights are extremely important. But they are all already in the Constitution. The first chapter is called Fundamental Rights and then comes the rule of law and democracy. If such a general provision is to be incorporated into the Constitution, it must be preceded by a very good and serious discussion. Now all kinds of groups go shopping in the Chamber and then come up with their own ideas. Mrs Özütok said that human rights should also be included, and I do not think she can call any human right that is also a fundamental right. Mr Öztürk has made a very large, new general provision. Mr Baudet, who is not even taking part in the debate, has also drafted a general provision. Mrs Van Engelshoven has drafted a general provision which has been subambulated again by Mr Segers. Mr Koopmans has also tabled an amendment stating that the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. I have to tell you, it gives me some displeasure. The inclusion of a general provision in the Constitution through an amendment is not the way you deal with the Constitution. I have a dilemma, because what are we supposed to do now? It is an order, a request, from the First Chamber that has been submitted to us by the government. Should we throw that in the trash or should we try to make something out of it? I would like to do the latter, but there are now one, two, three, four, five, six, seven alternatives to a general provision in the Constitution. I find that a little disgusting. Can we as a Chamber not reach agreement and decide that one of these general provisions is better than the other? Again, I'm not waiting for it. It will not diminish or add to our Constitution and to the way in which we deal with it. But that way we can meet a wish that sounds obvious in the Upper House. If we do that, I still feel the greatest warmth for Mr Koopmans' amendment: the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. It's short, it's very general, it adds very little, it doesn't matter very much, you can be in favour of it or you can be against it, but this way the House of Representatives can still respond to a request from the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you. That raises questions for Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u10	I can well imagine Mr Van Raak's mixed feelings. If you change the Constitution, you have to do it right and you have to do it well and widely in the Chamber. In the end, it will amount to votes. We will finalise the amendments by group and eventually it could be that one amendment will reach a majority or a large majority. I would like to say one more thing to Mr Van Raak. He asked a question in the first term and now repeats it again. It is a question of whether there are human rights that are not guaranteed in the Constitution. He said there would be no difference between human rights and fundamental rights. However, the State Committee says that there are human rights that do not yet have a place in the Constitution. In that sense, I would like to record it for my colleague Özütok. I mention, for example, the right to a fair trial, the ban on slavery and the ban on torture. There are many human rights that do not yet have a place in the Constitution. At least I want that marked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u11	Good. I asked that question. I think I remember the Minister saying that he did not know any human rights that are not also covered by fundamental rights. So I'd like to get a second-term response from the Minister. But the fact remains that there are seven general provisions here. I think that's a bit of a weird situation. This is not the way to deal with such a discussion, it is not the way to deal with the Constitution. If Mr Segers says that, considering everything, it could lead to Mr Van Raak's preference, namely Mr Koopmans' amendment, being able to count on a majority, then I say: let us have the debate on it. Let us put that to the vote, but let us not put seven proposals on the voting list later. It's starting to be a bit of a show.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u12	You mean seven, including the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr Segers has another follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u15	It would have been very simple if we had followed the state committee, which has thought about it. Mr Van Engelshoven has just underlined this. She made a proposal. It would have been easier if we had accepted that proposal. I would find it a little strange if the Chamber could not also choose the proposal made by the State Committee, which we asked for. As far as I am concerned, this proposal is and will remain, and it could be that we will eventually end up somewhere else. But it's just up to the Chamber to make a choice in that vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u16	If Mr Segers thinks so, then we must stop the treatment of this law and make a new law. That may be an initiative from the Chamber, but then you really need to make it a proper, full-fledged treatment. Then there must also be an opinion from the Council of State, then we must have a written round. Then we have to do this in a good, full way, and then we should not be putting a completely different proposal into it halfway through the examination of one constitutional review. Fine, no hard feelings. I have all sorts of reservations about this proposal from the State Committee, and I have all sorts of reservations about a general provision. Again, anyone who looks into my heart can see that I don't have to. But I'm courteous enough to meet a request from the First Chamber. However, if we want a completely different proposal from that of the government, because the government has proposed the most minimal form while the state committee has opted for a very broad form, then there is a fundamental change. That is really something else and then we should deal with it again in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u17	I would like to say to Mr Van Raak that if we amend the Constitution, we need to adapt it very carefully. This has already been discussed in the First Chamber. There's been a state committee. We are now dealing with it in plenary. That's pretty thorough, isn't it? Can we not overcome the objections to too easily changing the Constitution if we found a text like that of my amendment, which now has a two-thirds majority at least in this Chamber? Would that not be something that Mr Van Raak could say: I think that is well-behaved enough, and I would like to add my voice to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u18	When it appears that there is a large majority in this Chamber for a version, I would like to support it, and I am particularly looking at Mr Koopmans' amendment. Then I do not want to say: no, I want to be against it. Then I'll just say it's a request from the Senate. As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to. How's it working out for you? I don't think so. Can it hurt a lot? I don't think so either. Then you can be in favour, then you can be against, but then I'm willing to take that very seriously. What strikes me, however, is when we have to choose from seven variants. Then I really think it's going to be a circus with our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u19	I cannot quite follow Mr Van Raak's reasoning. He actually says: something like the Constitution should not be dealt with by amendment. Then it would have been logical for us to have state committees on this point that the cabinet had also followed the wording of the state committee. She has given this a lot of thought, it is well looked at, it is well thought out and weighed. That is why I have proposed that it be removed from this whole political debate and that it should follow the reasoning of that state committee. Mr Segers has rightly corrected me by saying: then you must do it to the full. I agree with him. I therefore welcome his sub-amendment. Mr Van Raak's reasoning is: I do not think that this is a good thing, but then we should start all over again, so in the end I will go for a 'one' amendment. Would it not be logical, in his reasoning, to say: choose the formulation on which the most studied, on which a good thought has been given, on which there has been a change of heart and weighing? We set up state committees to make this kind of proposal well-founded and not to go ice-cream over one night as far as the Constitution is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u20	Yeah, that's right. The government could have chosen to take over the proposal from the State Commission, but it did not. So that's not up front. Nor does the motion of the member English of the First Chamber state that it should be this text. So the First Chamber has left room for the government. In that sense, it is not an entirely fixed task. Apparently, there has been consultations within the government, which is also reflected in the Minister's explanation in the first term, with the result that the government has chosen to make it as minimal as possible. I can go a long way with that. If, like me, you think that such a general provision adds very little but also very little harm, then it is a bit of symbolic politics. Then let's keep it as small and as clear as possible. Again, I don't need it. I am prepared, if an overwhelming majority of this Chamber is in favour of it, not to oppose it but to go along with it. That is what I would do as a gesture to the First Chamber, which apparently made that request. That is, by the way, the reverse world. In most cases, legislative proposals from the Lower House go to the Upper House. Now it seems like we are the chambre de réflexion. So the minister is between two camps, between two chambers. He has been commissioned from the other Chamber, but at least his proposal is not accepted in this Chamber. And then we, Members of Parliament, will undoubtedly be making amendments with good intentions: one is doing this, the other is doing it, one is doing it and the other is doing it, and another is doing something else and another is doing something else, and there comes another sub-amendment. Poohpuh, that's not how you deal with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u21	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u22	Yeah, I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. I was just thinking about the story I once read about a Delft engineer telling his wife that there are no difficult problems. He said: either it is clear that the benefits really outweigh the disadvantages, which makes the choice clear, or it doesn't matter much, and if you have very serious doubts, it doesn't matter whether you choose A or B. I see the Minister nodding with understanding; he also has an exact background. However, this does not entirely solve the dilemma we face with this legislative proposal. It's just that I feel like it's a pain in the ass. With the text as it stands, I don't have much trouble. In fact, it is important that the Netherlands is a democratic constitutional state and it is good that fundamental rights are guaranteed. But is it really necessary, desirable, in so many words, to include this in a new general provision? At first, when the report of the State Commission appeared and the cabinet response came to it in October 2011, my group supported the cabinet: let us be strict when it comes to amending the Constitution, do so only when it is really necessary. We have supported the government in this approach. I have kept the doubts I had about the added value of such a provision, which was not removed in the first period of this debate. Mr Van Raak also expressed these mixed feelings. I recognize myself well in that. I just do not share the conclusion of his reasoning, namely that the First Chamber has adopted a motion and that should change our minds. It is the right of the Supreme Court to express its wishes and feelings on this matter, but we have the political primacy here in the House of Representatives and we also have the independent consideration of whether we are convinced by it. Having heard everything, my conclusion remains that we do not yet see sufficient added value in adding such a general provision. We also see questions about the legal interpretation of the precise scope of such a provision. I will therefore advise my group not to vote in favour of this bill, but to review the amendments before us to determine whether they are, in our view, an improvement on the text of the bill submitted by the government. In this context, I have great sympathy for Mr Koopmans' amendment. I am therefore in favour of this. There is one other issue that we have also raised in the first period. This was about the constitutional review by the judge. Mrs Özütok may return to the GroenLinks proposal in the second term. Since I do not yet know the outcome of this and because I do not think it is desirable that this should remain above the market, I would like to table the next motion together with Mr Van Raak. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas paragraph 4 of Article 137 of the Constitution requires the new Second Chamber to consider a constitutional change at second reading and that, as a result, the examination should be carried out expeditiously and completed in good time (see Constitutional Review Procedure 32123-VII, B);]] [[noting that the proposal (second reading) for the inclusion in the Constitution of the possibility of constitutional review by the judge was submitted on 8 March 2010 but was not finalised by that newly constituted Second Chamber, nor was it put to the vote in the subsequent parliamentary term, which ended with regular elections in 2017;]] [[states that, unfortunately, this proposal has not followed the procedure prescribed by the Constitution and can therefore no longer be dealt with by the Chamber, but must have been deemed rejected by the Second Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34516-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u25	Is this rewriting or rewriting of state law, of the procedure of dealing with a constitutional change at second reading? 'Cause right now, on a motion of censure, we're sweeping the bill aside... I would say that either the procedure is clear and must be followed, so we can simply continue with the treatment or the procedure is not clear. But each motion to create clarity is then a new, remarkable figure. Could Mr Van der Staaij clarify this a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u26	Yes. Indeed, I have also struggled with the question of how things are going to proceed. The Minister indicated in the first term that he actually considered the proposal to be more or less obsolete, because we cannot continue with it. The disadvantage of this is that somewhere in the Acts on a legislative proposal or general provision it must be concluded that this is to be considered void. Neither the Constitution nor our Rules of Procedure have any clear procedures in this regard. The withdrawal at second reading of a revision of the Constitution, which I have also looked at, is, in fact, questionable or possible, because it is intended that the Court should give its opinion on it. If you put it back to the vote, you would actually pretend it is legitimate for us to be able to go through with it, and there would be uncertainty if it were to reach a two-thirds majority. For this reason, it seems to me that it is the best way to establish that the proposal has not followed the procedure prescribed by the Constitution and must therefore be deemed rejected. This provides a bit of clarity and also opens the possibility to come up with a new legislative proposal. I just heard the D66 group say that she thinks that is a nice idea. But then it's obvious that this is really off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u27	I can only hope that the Minister will shed some light on this, because I am a little hesitant whether we should write our own rules by way of motion, when there is a proposal from a colleague on an important point. It gives me a rather unintended and unsatisfied feeling to say goodbye to it in such a way, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u28	It is unusual, but it is also unusual to deal with constitutional reforms in such a way. You can have a discussion if you submit a second reading that takes a while and then falls into the cabinet, which gives you an early election. Then you can discuss whether there is a particular reason why a next Chamber can go on with it. But that's what we've had. The first new House of Representatives, with its second reading, has not been able to deal with it. But if it can then not be brought to an end in the full period, it stops. Then it would also be unclear if you were going to put this back to the vote; so was my thought. I would like to give the opportunity for a better approach, but so far I have not heard better alternatives to this approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u29	This is a very special motion from the SGP Group. This is also a bit of trying to change the game rules during the game. Something was filed in 2012. It's been going on for five years. We have already had a first discussion here. Mr van der Staaij has now tabled such a motion in the second term, whereas so much work and work has already been done by all the groups. Does he not think that it would have been better to have it submitted earlier? That is my opinion so that we could have had a discussion on this at an earlier stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u30	We have had regular discussions about this. I mentioned just now that the cabinet response to the State Committee's report in 2011 already raised the question of the draft Constitutional Review bill, which needs to be followed up in good time. It has therefore been discussed regularly over time. There used to be a bit of uncertainty about this: what exactly is the situation with regard to the constitutional reforms, and when can this be done? In 2009, a detailed note was issued by Minister Ter Horst, who explained the rules of the game. There are no new rules. The rules of the game were crystal clear: filing as soon as possible after the new House of Representatives has taken its seat and deal with it as soon as possible. In addition, there is the possibility that it may indeed end up in a new Chamber if there are very special circumstances at stake. But it was and is clear that it can't be that you can leave a second reading over different Lower Houses, so to speak, and then you can go on with it at any time. I agreed with what the Minister said about this, but I was merely looking for the opportunity to give it up properly. This motion is an attempt to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u31	Is it not possible to let this process go and start a separate discussion about the rules of the game itself? Then let us just walk on to what we have done so far and start a separate discussion on how we will proceed from now on with this type of proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u32	I indicated that there was a note about this in 2009. We have talked about this on a regular basis. The rules of the game are clear. It can't be that we're just going to go back to the third chamber with one, two, three, and then move on to this bill. This can no longer be seen as a valid second term review of the legislative proposal under the Constitution, in which we can say: it is good; if it achieves a majority, then it can go to the First Chamber and then gets the power of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u33	With Mr Segers, I am a little surprised at the tabling of this motion here. I am perhaps even more surprised at Mr Van Raak's signature under this motion in view of his contribution to his term. Because he was just talking about not wanting to change the Constitution per amendment. However, the interpretation of how to apply the Constitution in a motion in a debate that does not deal with the procedure of constitutional reform is even more strange to me. If Mr Van der Staaij wishes to have that discussion, it would be useful to discuss the debates again. Because when he says 'we had that discussion in 2009', it's crazy that this discussion is now coming up. Then maybe it should have been fed before. I still have the feeling that the view on the Constitutional Review Bill is part of the motion. I find that very complicated and make the motion very undesirable for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u34	Maybe that's easy to contradict. I supported the bill from the SGP Group in the House of Representatives. So it is not a trick to try to get rid of the substantive discussion. I am really concerned about compliance with the constitutional provisions. In my opinion, there is no discussion, not even among state lawyers, about the fact that it is not possible to continue with a second reading when there has already been a subsequent Lower House and now there is a new Lower House. That is why this is a special moment. The only new thing is that we are looking for a way, if the widely shared view is that this cannot be done, to bring it to an end neatly. That is what I think this is about, and my colleague Mr Van Raak and I have put forward a concrete proposal for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u35	I am very surprised that you want to undermine the bill in this way. Apparently, something happened between the last time we talked about it and now, because I think it's really stylish that you want to take down the bill now with a motion. If you are so careful in dealing with all the legislative proposals, I would like to know whether it is not just about changing views on this legislation, but also about other legislation. Can I expect from you all kinds of motions that undermine other legislation? I think it's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u36	I do not know of any other proposals which deal with the same thing as this bill. In 2011 I already interrupted, referring to the GroenLinks Group, with the question: how is this bill going? We know the rules of the game that it really has to be completed in this Chamber. Every time it was said from the GroenLinks Group, "we're going to look at it; we're going to work on it." I understand that there are new spokesmen every time, and that is also difficult, but we are not doing so because of substantive resistance to these provisions. It may well be that I am in favour of a new proposal for constitutional review, but I want to clear the playing field so that we can have a clean procedure and we are not messing with the Constitution. We're just doing that by leaving the bill for a while and thinking that we can go on with it at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr Van Raak, you are a co-author of the motion. You have a question about it, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yes, but I was addressed by Mrs. Van Engelshoven. I must say that I find Mrs van Engelshoven's and Mrs Özütök's actions very difficult. I respect that people are new to the Chamber. Mrs Van Engelshoven has been carrying this for a while. I respect that people are new to the Chamber, but that doesn't mean you're fired as MP from the fact that you need to know the rules of the game. When it comes to constitutional changes, Constitutional changes were constitutionally established, and this was confirmed by the government in a letter dated 18 December 2009 following a debate in the Chamber that a constitutional revision should be dealt with by the next Chamber at second reading. Not by the subsequent or subsequent Chamber, but by the directly succeeded Chamber. There's a reason. If GroenLinks decides not to abide by these rules, it is her right, but I have already asked the Minister in the first term. At that time, the Minister said that this law was no longer eligible for further consideration. I therefore welcome the fact that this is expressed in this debate, so that clarity is provided. There are therefore no new rules of the game, but they comply with the rules of the game.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u39	I think we can talk a long time about this, but the motion has been tabled, supported by Members of Parliament. So she's gonna be in a mood. Then the Chamber can rule on the motion and then we can move on. So the motion has been filed. You can talk long and wide about the implications, but we will see that when the motion is adopted yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u40	I have a question about how Mr Van Raak deals with new Members of Parliament. You allow all that. I do not know what rules we have agreed on when I see a Member of Parliament standing up to give a new Member of Parliament from the left and from the right. There are Members of Parliament who rightly state their concern about the surprise tactics of the SGP. I believe that there should be room for this for new Members of Parliament, and I do not think that an experienced Member of Parliament should just stand up and tell us how it works here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u41	That is why I give you the floor to respond. We are in the process of drafting a legislative proposal on which amendments and a motion have been tabled. In the end, the Chamber itself is concerned with following a procedure, on the route proposed by Mr Van der Staaij. That's what we're waiting for. I suggest that we continue with the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mr. Chairman. The desire to keep the constitutional change sober also evokes emotions. We saw that just now, as in the first term. Our values and standards are enshrined in the Constitution. That is our guiding principle for rights and duties. I have tabled an amendment on human rights. The Minister said that this is not really necessary, because it is already understood in our rights. I believe, for example, that the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are not really incorporated into our Constitution. I am preparing a sub-amendment with Mr Segers. I would ask the Minister to look again at what conventions on human rights are not in our legislation. Will the Minister be able to take it explicitly? I maintain my motion and support Mr Segers' submotion. The motion tabled by the previous speaker is of the opinion that my group is very undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u43	I understand that you maintain your amendment and support Mr Segers' sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u45	You spoke of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr. Chairman. DENK still welcomes the proposal to add a general provision to the Constitution, as a general provision clarifies how our Constitution should be understood. She makes clear what we stand for as a country. And it protects us from parties that blunder the Constitution and threaten the rule of law, parties that unfortunately are not present today, such as the PVV. That is why we must protect our Constitution in our opinion. However, we remain of the opinion that the cabinet's proposal does not go far enough. DENK still sees much more in the extensive variant proposed by the minister's officials. I therefore maintain my amendment which accepts that variant, and I am happy to put it to the vote. Finally, I would like to make a point about the knowledge of our Constitution. Several studies show that Dutch people are not well aware of the Constitution. So too many people in the country do not know what our main document says, while our Constitution teaches us that we are equal, that we are free, that we have duties and that we have rights. That is so important that everyone should know about it in our opinion. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the review of the EenVandaag Opinion Panel shows that the majority of the Dutch do not know Article 1 of the Constitution;]] [[Considers that sound knowledge of the Constitution is of great importance for the promotion of active citizenship, the creation of social cohesion and the safeguarding of our democratic rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals to promote the social function and knowledge of our Constitution in society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34516-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. I do share the mixed feelings of Mr Van Raak. It is indeed about an amendment to the Constitution, and that is an expression of who we are. I think Mr Koopmans spoke very nicely about that. It is truly the heart of our society and our rule of law. Then it is rather strange that there are a lot of amendments and that we are getting to grips with what will eventually become the precise wording of that Constitution. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet should have sought the consensus in the Chamber a little more in advance, especially since the minister took a different turn than the 2010 State Commission proposed. Over the past two weeks, the differences between the D66 Group and the Christian Union Group have been discussed in detail. Tonight I'm celebrating a few similarities. So let's put two lines on that. The first agreement is the wish to join the opinion of the State Committee. I think we'll finally agree on that. The second agreement is the importance of a constitutional review, its beneficialness if it were possible. The Christian Union Group is in favour of this. We are now a little concerned with the inconvenience of Mr van der Staaij's motion. I have read the letter from Minister Ter Horst in the speed of my speech. It states that it has previously occurred that there has been a longer delay in the second reading rather than that it took place directly in the next period after acceptance of the first reading. At the same time, Minister Ter Horst also wrote in her letter that this should not be desirable and that it should be avoided as much as possible. But it is up to the Chamber to clarify that at the end of the day, and that should then fall down in the Rules of Procedure. We have that motion now. That's a fact. We shall vote on it. The Minister will say his own. He's done that before and he'll do it again. However, let me state my intention that it would be a good idea for the committee itself to take this up and look at the Rules of Procedure in order to clarify this point, which is still unclear at the moment. It is about the interpretation of the Constitution. That is ultimately up to the Chamber. So we will really have to clarify it ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u48	But in itself, we've already had that discussion. In 2009. And that discussion led to the letter from the government, the Minister of the Interior, of 18 December 2009. It states what is also the interpretation of the Constitution, the first day principle that Constitutional reforms for second reading should actually be submitted on the first day of the new Chamber or as soon as possible thereafter, with the aim of dealing with the revision during that period. For whatever reason, the Chamber may be dissolved within a very short period of time. In such a case it may be that the treatment is simply impossible. I think that's the exception that was discussed at the time. But by the way: simply submit very quickly and treat quickly in the next period. In my view, that is the spirit of the Constitution. So a lot of clarity isn't about this. When I asked the Minister in the first term, he also said in so many words that it is not possible anymore. But perhaps it is a good thing to wait for that answer from the Minister in the second term as well. But to start a whole investigation and to have a whole discussion: I think we did that in 2009 exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u49	For all clarity: it is not excluded. It concerns the interpretation of the Constitution, the question of what the procedure is. It is not excluded that there will be some time between first and second readings. In fact, that happened. The minister says it's undesirable. The Chamber has said that it is indeed undesirable. But it's not out of the question. What does it take to create clarity? Minister Ter Horst writes: it is up to your Chamber to make any provision for this in your Rules of Procedure. It's up to us. There is no such clarity and there must be. That's up to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u50	I note, therefore, that it was the conclusion of the 2009 debate that it was undesirable. It's undesirable. There can only be circumstances... I hear Mr Segers now saying 'but not excluded'. You can't rule it out, because when a Chamber enters and has to be dissolved after a very short period of time, it's just a piece of legislation, let's just say "physical"......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But it's not desirable. I am thinking too, but that is more to Mr Van der Staaij as the first author of this motion to give no new interpretation, but it clearly indicates that these particular circumstances cannot be that there is insufficient majority. Again, I am very much in favour of constitutional review. But it cannot be that the petitioners are going to wait for the Chamber to be dissolved, perhaps one more time dissolved, until there is finally a Chamber where there is a two-thirds majority. On the contrary, political shopping was not the intention of the Constitution. That was also the conclusion of the 2009 discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u51	As a recommendation, make that clear in your Rules of Procedure. That was our mission. That mission has not yet been completed. So that's what we have to do. That was my call. Perhaps that will eventually have to be done through the committee towards the Bureau and we should ask for it or ask for it. But we must create that clarity. As far as I am concerned, we are not creating this clarity by way of a motion, but we are taking the Rules of Procedure and saying: we all agree that these are our rules of the game; there was uncertainty, a gap, and we are going to clarify it. Sounds like the royal road to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u52	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I totally agree that we need to record that. We should have done that by now. But that doesn't mean there's a light in interpretation. The adoption of the Rules of Procedure is the result of a discussion. It's been discussed. It's not desirable. It is not the case that after the reform of the Rules of Procedure there is still a great deal to be discussed. This discussion has already taken place in 2009. The conclusion was that it was not desirable. That needs to be documented. Mr Segers is right that the House of Representatives has failed to do so. But the conclusion remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u53	If I may respond to that, there is no judicial ruling, because the judge is not allowed to review the Constitution. It's up to us. It is not out of the question, because there has been some time between the first and second readings. So there's that precedent. We later said: we do not want that; it is not beautiful and we must go on. But the precedent is there, so it is not excluded. That's the clarity we need to create. Let us do that through the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u54	It was indeed stated in that letter of 2009 that it might be desirable to include in the Rules of Procedure some kind of incentive for that rapid procedure, but that the Court itself should assess it. That's true. It's up to the Chamber to do it or not. But it can never be the intention, or in accordance with the Constitution, that the third Chamber should decide on a constitutional revision instead of the first Chamber after the dissolution elections? To be honest, that might explain this discussion a little bit. Mr Van Raak and I assumed that there was actually consensus on this. The Minister also said this in the first term, and that it was only the question of how we should properly detach it. Now suddenly there is a discussion and people say: maybe we can still do it. It is a good thing that we are talking about this, because I am surprised that you would say: after the first new House of Representatives, which indeed had only a short time, a second House of Representatives has come and has not dealt with it in a very regular period, without any particular circumstance. I have not yet seen or heard any constitutional interpretation saying that the third Chamber can still do it. Does Mr Segers see any possibility of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u55	In fact, the precedents are there. After the sentence in which we are urged to make it clear in the Rules of Procedure, the then Minister writes: "In this way, in the opinion of the Cabinet, repetition of the situations of 2003 and 2006 is avoided as much as possible and at the same time clarification of constitutional acceptability should such a situation occur unexpectedly." So there's a lot of noise there: "it could" and "we've had it before" and "we shouldn't actually do it." That's my free translation. There's still so much noise. There is only one place where we can create that clarity, and that is the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u56	Then we do read it differently. On the contrary, I have read very clearly in the note that this is really not the intention. It is not in line with the Constitution and the Council of State, the Government and the Chamber gave their opinion on it at the time. There was consensus. The question arose as to whether you might have to settle something in the Rules of Procedure, but that is an additional issue that does not affect the content of the rules of the game. According to the rules of the game, it doesn't make sense if you are a third chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u57	But Mr Van der Staaij himself indicated that there was some embarrassment about how this could be removed. The fact that there is a lack of clarity as to how to put an end to this already indicates that this clarification and clarification is necessary. That seems to me to be the task we must give ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u58	Maybe I can make an interim proposal, because I don't know if we're gonna make it all the way out of here. If Mr Van der Staaij's motion is adopted, it may be considered whether the Rules of Procedure should be amended in the light of the motion, perhaps through the Bureau. Is that a route where everyone can find themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u59	We're still waiting for an answer from the Minister. We could also ask the Council of State for information on this motion. Then we take it out of the political sphere and we are talking about a pure review of the Constitution. We want to follow the Constitution in this, but we also do not want to be unnecessarily strict. At least that's what I'm tasting here. Perhaps that's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u60	Maybe that's a good suggestion. I'll take a look at the colleagues. The route would then be to hold the motion and first give advice to the Council of State on the motion. Can the Chamber find itself on that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u61	Fine if the motion is held, but I think there should be a new motion for the purity of the procedure, supported by the Chamber, which asks the Council of State to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u62	I'm just collecting reactions. You could do that, but you could do it all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u63	It is a bit of a SGP proposal, but now from DENK!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u64	It's up to your room. It's up to you to decide the route. If the petitioner is willing to hold the motion, and if you would like to seek advice from the Council of State first, we could decide to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u65	I think it would be wise not to put the motion to the vote at least now and to have it looked at again. It may be ironic this week, but the longer I listen to Mr Segers, the more I agree with him. Indeed, Minister Ter Horst's letter from 2009 leaves a lot of room for nuance on this point. It is not for nothing that this has apparently not been included in the Rules of Procedure since 2009. It is not as black and white as the motion submitted. That is why I find Mr Van Raak's accusations against Mrs Özütok and myself somewhat inappropriate. In any case, this is not the way in which I intended to hold the debate in this Chamber. It's about the content. There was a very nuanced letter at the time. To be honest, I do not think it is very chic of Mr Van Raak to take the measure of colleagues in this Chamber in this way. Let us have the debate on the substance. I don't think it's a fancy way of debating people in this way. At least it's not the way I want to be political. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr Van Raak is addressed personally, so he has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u67	I responded because I was addressed personally. I have tried to have a constitutional discussion, but I noticed that Mrs Van Engelshoven made that rather personal. I have tried to explain why I want to have this constitutional discussion. I think it's very important that we do that. In the past, there has always been a great deal of consensus in the government and in the Chamber, but there seems to be a lack of clarity about this. Then it is good that this discussion is being held.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u68	That is what has been said. I suggest that we suspend for a while after the term of the Chamber, so that you can discuss the route to be followed internally or between yourselves. We can also wait for the Minister's response and then suspend it before we close the debate on this issue. Then we can see what happens to the motion. I ask Mr Segers to conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u69	I have a few brief comments to make. It seems that Mr Koopmans' amendment can receive broad support. I can imagine that we are simply supporting this in the votes, because it brings democracy and the rule of law very close together and makes it clear that it is an inseparable unity. I strongly support that idea. A motion on the relationship between fundamental rights and human rights had already been announced. Mrs Özütok has tabled an amendment on this subject, and she has said a few things about it. It is clear to me that not all human rights have a place in the Constitution. That's why I'm tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Constitution Committee notes that several important human rights are not included in our Constitution;]] [[Whereas the symbolic role of the Constitution can be strengthened by including international human rights, to which the Netherlands is already bound, in our own national Constitution;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and in what way human rights which are not explicitly included therein can be added to the Constitution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34516-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u70	If this bill comes to an end in a good way, we will support it. As far as we are concerned, the legislative proposal is not the end of the debate on the Constitution, but the beginning of a continuation of it. Our Constitution must be a living document. As far as I am concerned, we can continue to think and discuss a possible preamble, because I say again that the Constitution is an expression of who we are. I have heard the informant today speak very well about the democratic rule of law that binds us together. Where there are great differences in our time, this is a document that binds us together and it is the rule of law that gives us the freedom we all enjoy so much. If we can underline that in that living document, I would be delighted to do so!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u71	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the general provision, but I would like to go back to last week. Last week, the House of Representatives debated the bill to include the right to a fair trial in the Constitution. I started that debate by saying that there are strict conditions for including provisions in the Constitution. There must be broad support for the change. The wording of the provision must be sober, because our Constitution is sober in character. The formulation must be legally crystallised. There must be constitutional maturity. This means that there must be a great deal of agreement on the wording of the provision after the necessary deliberations and consultations. That constitutional maturity has not yet been mentioned in this case. The House has written history here on a legislative proposal consisting of one provision to table no less than five amendments and also a sub-amendment. How does the Minister weigh this? It is quite likely that one of the amendments will make it. In my opinion, Mr Koopmans' wording will perhaps receive support from several parties in the Chamber. That is what I would like to submit to the Minister. 70, that if the Chamber substantially amends a bill, this is a legislative proposal of one provision, and that the Minister may ask the Council of State again for advice. What will he do if one of the amendments makes it? It's the minister's jurisdiction, not the chamber's. It's with him. I have already indicated it in the first term: the CDA is not in favour of the general provision. A general provision is symbolic. Also, the multitude of amendments from the Chamber shows here that this bill is simply not yet constitutionally mature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u72	That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I see the Minister is ready to respond immediately. I shall give him the floor immediately to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr. Chairman. Before I come to the content of the present proposal to amend the Constitution and the amendments to it, let me respond to a few other points mentioned in the second term of the Chamber. First of all, I would like to say a few words about Mr Van Raak's contribution, which might give the impression that a new article will be added before Article 1. For the gourmets: that is not the case. Such a general provision would be an unnumbered text prior to the article-by-article examination. Article 1 therefore remains Article 1 of the Constitution. This is an important procedural point, which has already been discussed in the first period. You might have the impression, having heard the debate in the second term, that we are dealing here with a proposal made by the First Chamber. That is not the case. I can best clarify it by just literally reading out what I said in the first term: "It is important for the history of law and the future to stress that we are not dealing here with legislative proposals, let alone constitutional amendments, on behalf of the First Chamber. Then our constitution would be upside down. A motion was adopted in the First Chamber, in which the government was called upon to do so, so I indicated that I would reconsider the position previously taken that it was not necessary to add a general provision. That invitation was accepted by the Cabinet. This has led me to decide, taking into account everything, to submit a sober general provision to the Chamber." So let there be no misunderstanding. It is an independent decision of the cabinet and I stand here defending it, because I think it meets the criteria for amending the Constitution. Yeah, we considered that at the invitation of the First Chamber. That is, of course, legitimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u74	I understand the Minister's words. I might also be able to pronounce them if I were standing there, because at least that's how you stay within the Constitution. However, if the First Chamber had not adopted that motion, the Minister would never have reconsidered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u75	I'm not denying that. I said we were invited by the Supreme Court to reconsider that. We did. Mr Van Raak, who was a senator himself, also sees that this can of course be done. The First Chamber may invite the government to reconsider. We've considered that in the Cabinet. So that's the way things are going. Then there is the pressing question of how to deal with Article 137 (4) of the Constitution. No one, of course, intends to amend the Constitution by way of motion or by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The Constitution says the following. First of all, she describes, of course, that a constitutional amendment should be adopted by the Chambers at first reading. Then paragraph 4 says: "After the new Lower House has come together, both Chambers at second reading consider the proposal for change, referred to in the first paragraph." Then it goes on to say that there must be a two-thirds majority for it. The question before us now is: what if they don't? That's actually the question. The text states: After the new House of Representatives has come together, both Chambers consider the proposal. That's based on the new House of Representatives. Yes, indeed, there has been discussion in the past. If this House has already disappeared before it can be dealt with, is the proposal adopted at first reading dead? No, the Council of State has said and the government has taken over, it may be that in the event of a rapid exchange of Cabinets and Chambers, "the new" House of Representatives can be read as the new Chamber or Chamber afterwards, but clearly not with the intention of waiting until it seems politically appropriate to consider the proposal again. That is the interpretation of the Constitution as it stands. The government's position then and now is therefore consistent, namely that at least this cannot mean waiting for an appropriate moment. That's what's going on here. Then the question is: what did the constitutionalist intend to do as a proper procedure to establish that something would no longer be dealt with at second reading? I honestly believe that the constitutionalist has not taken this into account, because the Constitution is seen as a social contract between citizens and their government, whereby the government is bound by the Constitution and the Constitution can only be amended if both Chambers of the States-General so wish, then the Chamber is dissolved so that the people can express their opinion on it, after which the newly elected Second Chamber will examine the amendment. From that point of view, it is of course unthinkable that all this happens and that the newly elected House of Representatives does not do so. So there is no procedure in the Constitution to provide for a situation that, after all this hassle, after the treatment in both Chambers, the House of Representatives and elections the new House of Representatives would not do that. You can say that this is a gap in the Constitution, but you can also say that the constitutionalist assumed that it was logical that, in the case of an initiative proposal, the initiators or otherwise the government would take it back into consideration after the elections or as soon as possible afterwards. Furthermore, I do not think we can indicate what the constitutionalist intended. Then the question is: what is the proper way of finding that the amendment to Article 120 no longer meets the procedural requirements of Article 137 (4) of the Constitution? Who is to observe this and when and where? As a government, I would, quite frankly, like to stay out of that. I can say that we have one strong position: it cannot be taken in procedure and then at second reading and then adopted, because then an amendment to the Constitution will be introduced in accordance with a procedure that is not constitutional. So should it come here, the government's position would be that we strongly discourage it, because it no longer meets the procedural requirements, regardless of its content. Who then gets it out of procedure if it no longer meets those criteria in Article 137 (4)? Again, the Constitution does not provide for this. I'll leave it to the room. If you wish to do so by way of a motion, at least there is clarity. I understand. But if you want to look at this in another way as a Chamber, I can also imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u76	Clear, and then the intermediate route with the Council of State has been mentioned. We'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u77	This is actually what the Minister said in the first term, but now even more comprehensive and, I think, even clearer. So that means that this constitutional change cannot be put to the vote here anymore. The minister then wonders how you can close it. He says: there is no role for the government, it is a role for the Chamber. Is the form of a motion, as Mr Van der Staaij has tabled, a good form to complete it? Is the Council of State still required to give its opinion or does the Minister say that the procedure, the gap, is now so clear that it can also be resolved by a motion or other ruling of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u78	It does not require a renewed opinion from the Council of State in order to establish that a proposal that has been pending for so long no longer complies with Article 137 (4). The Council of State gave its opinion on this earlier and there was not a word of French. And I do not know whether the question of how it should be taken out of procedure is sufficiently heavy to be submitted to the Council of State. Once again, the Constitution assumes that someone will bring it back into procedure after the formation of the new House of Representatives. If the initiators have not done so, then a gap has arisen and it is up to the Chamber to draw conclusions from it. It would not be contrary to the Constitution to do so by means of a motion, but it could also be done in another way. I'll stay out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u79	I had a second question. Mr Segers said that this should also be laid down in the Rules of Procedure and that until then there is still room for interpretation. I didn't see it that way. I wonder how the Minister sees that. That procedure is outlined in the letter of 18 December 2009. Is that on condition that it is included in the Rules of Procedure of the Second Chamber or not? Is this procedure now as it is and can there simply not be a vote on this law at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u80	There is no room for interpretation as to the extent to which this constitutional amendment to Article 120 is still alive. There's no room for interpretation. There has also been an opinion on this and a government position on it; that is no longer the case. It would not comply with the procedure set out in Article 137 (4) if it had now been re-examined. What then is the way in which it is found and removed from the Chamber agenda, I leave it to the Chamber. In itself, the way of a motion is clear, but if the Chamber finds that a little out of order in this debate and prefers to do it at another time, then so can it. That's not up to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u81	The Minister and I agree on the fact that it is not possible for a third parliament to go further, but I am still not sure I would have expected that, and I would also say to my fellow Members, Mr President, that there is apparently less clarity about this in the various political groups than I had suspected on the basis of the Minister's contribution and what I myself think. That is the reality that we are dealing with. Then the second question is: is it in accordance with the Constitution that you continue to deal with it? That is what different groups are asking themselves. And if it doesn't work out, how do you tie it up nicely? However, I would like to ask whether the Council of State should give its opinion or not on this point. Information may be requested. We just pulsed it. There is broad support for this in the various groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u82	That's your procedural proposal. The Chamber may, by letter, seek advice from the Council of State. This must then be supported by colleagues, so let me see if colleagues support your proposal for this procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u83	I support that, with the addition 'I thought it was not in the request that we also request a text for the Rules of Procedure on how we can clarify this. After all, the mission we were given in 2009 was: make it clear in the Rules of Procedure. This could also be the subject of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u84	Okay. Then Mrs. Van Engelshoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u85	I think it would be wise to do it on that route. Indeed, the 2009 letter already showed that different views can be expressed on this issue. I also think that the Minister is sending out a number of different signals about this. On the one hand, he actually says that he believes that the cabinet should stay out of this discussion of interpretation. On the other hand, he gives his own interpretations, also in the letter he sent on other legislative proposals. Of that he said: it has to be before 1 May. I think it would be wise for the Chamber as a whole to ask the Council of State for its opinion on this, even when it comes to the question of what kind of text would be sensible in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u86	I must point out that the Chamber itself deals with the Rules of Procedure. We can ask the Council of State for an opinion, after which the Chamber must put it at the Bureau to consider whether a proposal for amendment of the Rules of Procedure should be applied. But it is primarily about Mr Van der Staaij's proposal to seek an opinion from the Council of State. I've now heard two people who support that. Let me take a look at Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u87	We would also like to support that, but we would like to make it clear here what exactly is the question we are going to ask the Council of State. I do not know whether we can do that tonight or at any other time, but if we give the Council of State such a mandate, we support that idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u88	The precise wording can perfectly be determined through the Committee on the Interior. It would be logical for Mr Van der Staaij to make a contribution to this in the Committee on the Interior. I hear support for the proposal for this route. Let me take a look at Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u89	I think it is clear that the Lower House has not complied with the constitutional procedure. In this respect, there is no need for an opinion from the Council of State, but if a large majority of the Chamber needs it, I would like to support it wholeheartedly. I think that an opinion from the Council of State on an amendment to the Rules of Procedure is going to be very tough. If we want to change the Rules of Procedure, we simply have to do so. If we have the proposal, we can always submit it to the Council of State, but in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u90	I hear support for the advice. I call Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u91	I support the proposal to ask the Council of State for information. This is a well-used method when opinions differ in the House of Representatives. I think Mr Van der Staaij's wording is quite clear. He formulates two research questions, the second of which is not as Mr Van Raak interprets him. The second question is: if it turns out that the Constitution is being violated, how can you ensure that it is followed up with care? Should that indeed lead to an amendment of the Rules of Procedure, I agree with Mr Van Raak that we are dealing with the wording ourselves. But I think the question we are asking the Council of State is broader.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u92	With this you support the route to seek advice from the Council of State. There is broad support for requesting that advice. The President of the Chamber will request this opinion from the Council of State after the Committee on the Interior, on a proposal from Mr Van der Staaij, has formulated the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u93	I would like to continue my motion, which I tabled together with Mr Van Raak, until we have received that opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u94	At the request of Mr Van der Staaij, I propose his motion (34516), No. 13), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u95	Then the Chamber has now established that route. I give the floor to the Minister to finish his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. Chairman. Before I come to the debate on the amendments themselves, I shall first address Mrs Bruins Slot's question as to whether there is a need for the government to ask the Council of State for its opinion on an amendment. It refers, in particular, to the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 10. This could be done according to the legislative roadmap when it comes to a major amendment of a legislative proposal and I need it to be able to provide the Chamber with an opinion on such an amendment. However, as I pointed out in the first period, I do not regard this as a major change to the proposal, because the order in which the elements are listed in the general provision does not constitute a priority for the government. The order I have presented to you is in many international treaties. The order of business as set out in the amendment to item No. 10 is the order in which it is dealt with in the Constitution. That in itself is not an illogical order, so I do not consider that to be such a radical change that I would like to refer it to the Council of State. I will come back to the question of whether democracy and the rule of law should be mentioned separately or whether they should be included in the coherent concept of the 'democratic rule of law'. This issue has been extensively weighed, including within the cabinet, and the Council of State has already given an opinion on it. I would not need a new opinion, because I know the views that lie within the cabinet. The answer to Mrs Bruins Slot's procedural question is therefore that I consider myself able to give an opinion on this without asking the Council of State for further information on it. However, now that I am invited to do so, I can say that we in the government have strongly considered the usefulness and need of a sober general provision in the Constitution and that some of the amendments no longer meet that condition, for the reasons I have mentioned in detail in the first period. That applies to five of the six amendments, namely those on items Nos. 9, 11, 7, 12 and 8. They all make that the sober character is lost, because it adds elements. I said last time that the question arises as to why you should not add the principle of legality, the separation of powers or the independence of the judiciary to that general provision. That's exactly why we want to keep her sober, otherwise it won't end again. I know that the State Committee had proposed a broader general provision, but it also envisaged a broader amendment to the Constitution. In this context, it was not illogical to add a broader general provision, but those other opinions of the State Committee have not been taken on board either. If we want to take over this element, the government thinks that is a good idea, then we would like to keep it sober. This leads to the following procedural question: should the Chamber adopt one of those amendments, which I have just mentioned, I would need to take the amended proposal back to the Cabinet before it comes to the vote. I would ask the President to put these amendments to the vote first, for that reason, because I believe they go further than the amendment in part No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u97	That's clear. In this way, I note that the amendments to Parts Nos. 7, 8, 9, 11 and 12 are not recommended by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u98	I'd have done that in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u99	I'm just gonna say it again. The amendment in part No. 10 continues to be the opinion of the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u100	I would like to add two more things. I have already said in the procedural discussion that I leave the judgment on changing the order to the Chamber, but that I do not accept that that is because it would be one of the other. I note that that is the explanatory statement. In the government's view, the elements are equally important and the order does not change. So I'm neutral in that. I must say that I know that replacing the list of 'democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights' with 'democratic rule of law' is well known and that I can leave it to the Chamber with some sympathy. However, the Chamber knows that this is weighed slightly differently by the various state lawyers. However, I could live well with such an amendment. Mrs Van Engelshoven made a glowing argument for introducing the test, i.e. removing Article 120 from the Constitution. She said that only then will the Constitution be alive, but I believe that the Constitution is alive now. We may disagree on the desirability of such a constitutional test, but even without that test, I think there is a living Constitution. I am also sure that Mrs Van Engelshoven agrees with me. Now I challenge her; that was not my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u101	Yes, you do, because if you're referring to my words, you have to do it completely. I said that the Constitution would be more alive in concrete cases. That's what I'm here for. Of course, the Constitution is alive, but it is only in this review that it will do so in concrete cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u102	Okay, I'll take note of that. The amendments have therefore been discussed. There's still a few motions ahead. Mr Van der Staaij's motion for a resolution 13 has been apprehended. The motion in part No. Fourteen I advise. We have a whole Directorate of Constitutional Affairs, which is constantly trying to promote the social function and knowledge of our Constitution in society. ProDemos is actively working on that. I would not support the suggestion that that would be new. In that sense, I think it is an unnecessary motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u103	I notice that the Minister has put his gun factor towards DENK back to zero. Research shows that despite your efforts, Minister, many people in the Netherlands do not yet know Article 1 and do not know our Constitution. That's what research shows. I would ask you, in a motion, to come up with ideas to unite our citizens with our Constitution, but you strongly advise against that motion. I would ask you once again, apart from DENK, to look at the content and to review this motion once again from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u104	I didn't mention a political movement. Article 1 of our Constitution is chiseled in the side of this building. We're busy all the time. Four weeks ago, on the day of the Constitution, I walked around here again with a company. I can also recommend a tour of the Constitutional Path. That's extremely interesting. There's a lot of people taking care of those tours. In many ways, for example through education, the Constitution is brought to the fore. I do not think it is advisable to suggest that we should say: well, we have thought again, let us try to bring the Constitution to people's attention. That's really unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u105	The minister is from the research world. He says we've been thinking about it. No, Minister, you're not listening very carefully. I say: research shows that society does not fully know our Constitution. That's what research shows. You're from the research world. It's not: DENK has thought for a while. No, it's from research. And then I ask you if you can come up with some new ideas, because what you are telling is not enough. Then, as a researcher, you should be able to look at the content and say: wait a minute, I will go back to my service and ask if we can come up with new suggestions to make the Constitution even more public? What's so hard about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u106	You've heard the government's advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u107	You're taking your advice. Nevertheless, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u108	This isn't some kind of answer, is it? I'm coming up with an investigative result. This is a rude way of saying, "I don't give anything to Denk." I would ask you once again, apart from DENK, to look at the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u109	I find it unholy to appeal to myself to be a researcher, although I consider that to be a compliment in itself. That gives it a personal touch. And then something with DENK is added. That'll pollute the discussion. I do not recommend the motion before us, referring to the arguments I have now given twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u110	It's been noted. You cannot agree, Mr Öztürk, but the Minister has given his advice. We're getting to the motion in part no. 15 by Mr Segers and Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u111	I think that's a nice motion, but I'd still like to dissuade her. It is already about amending the Constitution. It is complicated to see how we can add human rights to the Constitution. In my view, we are already doing this by including fundamental rights in the general provision. I would also refer back to the first-term discussion on whether human rights are covered. The explanation of the government is that "fundamental rights" must be read here as is done in international treaties. They include human rights. But there are also other fundamental rights. I also wondered what would be an example of a fundamental right that is not necessarily a human right. Of course, most fundamental rights coincide with human rights. However, human rights are a subset of fundamental rights. There are also fundamental rights that do not belong to people but, for example, to non-natural persons, to legal persons. I call it the right to property. This is true for people. The government is not allowed to take away people's property just like that, but also for foundations or institutions. In this sense, therefore, the concept of "fundamental rights" is broader than just "human rights." Human rights are fully covered by fundamental rights as set out in the general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u112	Mr Segers has another reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u113	These are human rights that are not fundamental rights. For example, the right to a fair trial has recently been added. That is also a constitutional change. So it's a living process. It is a process which the government is also taking initiatives. My question was as follows. The State Commission has appointed a number of human rights that do not yet have a place in the Constitution. She said: see if they do not deserve a place, as is done here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u114	I find it complicated, quite frankly, to decide by way of a motion that we are going to consider whether and in what way we can add human rights to the Constitution. It is simply promised, but I would find that difficult. We are now integrating fundamental rights into the Constitution and they fully cover human rights. I would like to leave it at that and not now, without further consideration, decide to consider it. I like to move with Mr Segers, but this is just too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u115	I am not saying: we are going to take it up for a moment; we are going to go back to nailing that Constitution. I'm just asking the Minister to take a look at it. Sometimes there's a difference. I pointed out, for example, the right to a fair trial, which was recently added to the Constitution. So initiatives are being taken. My question is, partly in the light of GroenLinks' amendment: there is a difference; can we look at that again? It is therefore a very carefully formulated request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u116	I understand, but I also want to be consistent. I also dissuaded that amendment by GroenLinks, with the motives I have just given. I would therefore find it somewhat doubly bold to leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber at the same time. I always look at whether there is any possibility of leaving the judgment on a motion to the Chamber, but in this case that would put me in a difficult position. All weighing down, I guess I'm gonna advise the motion anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-31-tweedekamer-7.u117	This brings the Minister to the end of his reply. I note that the motion in part No. 13 and that the wording is being considered in committee. I also note that the amendment to item No. The last item was put to the vote under Rule 103 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. We shall be voting on the motions, the amendments and the legislative proposal on Tuesday.
