ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u1	In the meantime, I can also welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. The Minister of Justice and Security is on my watch, and I'm sure we'll see him again soon. I wish the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality every success, including in this House of the States General. I congratulate her on her appointment. It is her first performance here in the First Chamber and then it is also an interplay. I wish you a great deal of wisdom and success, not only in the interplay, but also in the performance of your duties. The speaking time for the first timer is set at a maximum of five minutes and in the second timer for the interpreter and any intermediary speakers at a maximum of two minutes. The interpellant will be the first to speak in second term. Interpreting questions will be included in an annex to the Acts. I would ask Members to do so, if you wish to interrupt Mr Koffeman in the first place, after he has delivered the text of his interpretation. So you can interrupt in the first term, but again, I would appreciate it if you could do that at the end of Mr Koffeman's speech, so that he can complete his interplay completely and then you can interpret. You can, of course, all keep further comments until the second deadline. However, we will see that after the Minister's reply to Mr Koffeman's speech. The Minister could also be interrupted in her speech, in response to Mr Koffeman; questions had been asked. I call Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I would like to thank the Chamber for the opportunity to keep this interplay and thank the Minister for coming. Mr. Chairman. The problem we are discussing today has been known since Greek mythology. Augias had the largest herd in the country: 3,000 oxen. And the stables of the herd hadn't been mucked out in 30 years. Herakles' assignment was to clean the stables in one day. We managed to do that by draining the manure through two rivers. Make this story 200,000 times bigger and we are in the Netherlands of 2017. We don't have 3,000 animals. We have 600 million. Together, we have 80 billion kilos of manure. And those 30 years of Augias correspond wonderfully to the 33 years in which we struggle with manure policy and manure fraud. Because of our location in the fertile delta, we are allowed to run more manure on our land than prescribe the standards and phosphate, nitrate and ammonia are transported to the sea via drainage with the large rivers. Everything has already been tried to manage the brown stream, but the fact is that manure fraudsters have formed a criminal network in which all policies are smilingly bypassed. They drive empty trucks back and forth, falsify administration, tamper with accredited laboratories with manure samples and bypass large-scale GPS controls. The lawyer who, according to the DA's office, is part of a criminal network said about the minister in the Brabants Dagblad: "I hope it's a rookie mistake from Minister Schouten when she talked about a diseased morale. That's tendential. Why doesn't she tell her own officials first?" This is a multifaceted monster, of which rulers often only realize their size after their term of office. "Tackling hard," former executives like Brinkhorst and Bleker call from the side to politicians in the manure swamp. We are not here to do good, but to prevent evil, we know since Minister Donker Curtius, and I would like to try to do so. Minister Schouten said when she took office that she wanted to do something in return as a farmer's daughter for the sector and that it was not just about punishment but also about mercy. The Minister seems to be taking an advance on that grace by already reassuringly speaking about the derogation. The sector will have two weeks to come up with a plan of action. You don't have to have a crystal ball to know what's gonna come out of it. In the coming years, livestock farming in the Netherlands can continue to grow under the conditions of environmental policy. There is sufficient manure processing capacity and the objectives will be met. That was already in 2013 in the plan "Kursstast' towards 2020: driven by responsibility. In 2013, chairman. The agreement between scavenging software in cars and scavenging shit in livestock farming is that in both cases the environment is being abused in order to maintain a bankrupt earning model. Merciless! Manure is like salt or sugar: if you use too much of it it becomes a poison. A poison that threatens nature, the environment and therefore our people. Forty years ago, scientists warned of the consequences of the massive increase in livestock. The sector would offer technological solutions, but all attempts to do so have failed. And so the farmer sprinkles the manure on his and other people's land, the cheapest way to get rid of it. With some romantic accounting, there's nothing to worry about on paper. The relationship between livestock farming and the environment is hardly ever measured. It goes through calculations that are always too optimistic. The water in Brabant and Limburg has not met the standards for fifteen years. But above the big rivers, manure fraud also plays on a large scale. Let us restore our soil and the environment from the manure tsunami that was illegally poured across the country. I'd like to close with a few questions: Is the Minister prepared to develop legislation allowing only land-based livestock farming? Why is there no flat-rate manure tax per animal kept? Is it true that manure fraud extends across the Netherlands in several livestock sectors? Which ones are they? What gives the Minister confidence that self-regulation works, now that the sector has been aware of national large-scale fraud for years? Anyone who has knowledge of a criminal offence in the Netherlands is obliged to report it. We know that the sector has been claiming to know about these crimes for years. Can I ask the Minister how many declarations have been made by the sector organisations? How does the Minister prevent discrepancies in the monitoring of numbers of animals kept in the division of labour between the Empire, the Province and the Municipality? We know the municipality looks at how many animals there are and the Empire looks at the manure accounting. That's very difficult, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u3	Keep an eye on your time, Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u4	Oh, yeah. More ammonia is emitted than can be explained by numbers of animals kept. How does the Minister explain that? Can you explain why the KLPD report on serious environmental crime was kept secret, as was the outcome of NVWA and RVO's 2015 compliance study on manure treatment? Is it true that the Public Prosecutor's Office wanted to prosecute the lawyers who were at the centre of the Brabant manure fraud for participating in a criminal organization, but had to refrain from doing so because of lack of manpower, just like the NVWA had to stop a compliance investigation for the same reason? Can you indicate where your expectations and demands of the industry's approach to curb manure fraud differ from the 2014 approach plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u5	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Perhaps it would be wise for you to stand down for a moment, because I see Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u6	I would like to take this opportunity to put two questions to Mr Koffeman, who, through him, may also end up with the Minister. First of all, the remark that the SGP, my group, is very much for farmers, but also very much against fraudsters. Now we have an interplay focused on the manure fraud in relation to the process aimed at obtaining a new derogation for the period 2018-2021. That is the purpose of this interplay; whether it all goes on. In your speech, I miss the question to the Minister whether or not this derogation is in danger. As far as I am concerned, the most crucial question in this debate, which I have also missed, is whether and in what way the Minister can favour the NVWA for good enforcement. That is what we are in this Chamber for: legality, feasibility and enforcement. Today it's just about enforcement, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u7	I thank Mr Schalk for these questions. I asked the Minister whether she was wrong to take an advance on the results of the two-week plan of action to be presented by the sector by saying already that this derogation would not be compromised. I asked the Minister to respond to that. I think that is supposed to be too early. On the day before the NRC publication, the Minister announced in a letter of formal notice that she had good hopes that the derogation would continue and that it would not pose any problems. Afterwards, she also said that discussions with Europe on derogations were very successful and that she did not expect any problems from them. I have asked in my speech whether that is a little premature, so in that sense that is indeed part of the questions I have asked in my contribution. In addition, I very much agree with Mr Schalk that the NVWA should not of course be a toothless tiger. We also like farmers and we don't like fraudsters either, so we think something should be done about it if you have supervisors who say: we tried to supervise, we were about to intervene, but we didn't have the human power for that. I have asked the Minister about this and I have a motion for a resolution on it for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u8	I thank Mr Koffeman for the answer. I am very curious whether the questions I have asked in this regard will be answered by the Minister in a moment's time. As you know, I am on the list of speakers subject to reservation. If these questions are answered by the Minister, I will waive the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u9	Then I ask the Minister if she has the opportunity to reply directly. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u10	Mr President, thank you very much. I would also like to thank Mr Koffeman for the interplay debate he has requested. I am pleased to exchange views with you here so soon, although the reason is not too good, I would add. It is a good thing that this is being discussed. We have done the same in the House of Representatives, and I am happy to do the same here with your Chamber. Your Chamber asks me about fraud and the impact on the environment of some of the identified situations. Let me first outline the framework within which this takes place. The sector has scope to produce within the regulatory framework. These frameworks are scorned by fraud and therefore also by the side effect of livestock farming on the environment. I heard Mr Koffeman say, and rightly so: we like farmers, but not fraud. That is also the summary of what I intended to say and what I wanted to communicate to the sector. The sector must reduce its action within the frameworks indicated by the company by the manure regulation. Last Monday, 13 November, I had some sector organisations come to me on the occasion of the article Het Mest conspiracy, in the NRC on Saturday 11 November last. I have expressed my dissatisfaction with the sector about what is contained in that article and asked it to submit a plan of action, to put its own house in order and to produce responsibly within the established frameworks. This does not mean, as may be suggested in the questions put by the Chamber, that I have asked the sector for self-regulation. Self-regulation would replace regulation, and that is in no way the issue. I do expect the sector to take action to deal with soil and surface water carefully and to emit ammonia. In this context, I have indeed spoken of 'a cultural issue'. I would like to say that more legislation will not help if the actors concerned are not in touch with the spirit of the law. The sector will then once again be able to get around the letters, the rules of the law creatively. Then there is the extent and spread of fraud. Fraud is hidden in corporate administration. The exact extent and spread of fraud are therefore difficult to determine. There are, however, incentives to commit fraud and to identify the sector and region in which fraud occurs in particular. The demand for certain types of manure varies. In general, there is more demand for cattle manure than for pig manure because cattle manure has a higher organic dust content. In addition, manure is accounted for on the basis of kilograms of phosphate per weight unit of manure. The phosphate content varies by type of manure. As a fertiliser contains more water and less nutrients, i.e. phosphate, more kilogrammes of manure need to be disposed of to comply with the rules. The disposal of manure with plenty of water and little phosphate per kilogram, such as pig manure, means higher costs for the farmer. The strongest incentives for fraud are all linked to pig manure, especially in livestock-tight areas, such as North Brabant and Limburg. As regards enforcement, the manure regulation is complex and the chances of getting caught are not great either. Some service providers are prepared to allow fraud. In addition, it is difficult and labour-intensive to detect manure fraud and then prove it convincingly to the judge. Checking manure transports often does not suffice to check the books. On paper, it's usually true. In-depth research into manure flows is needed to identify manure fraud. Different data, such as sample sampling and GPS data, should be combined to gain insight into fictional and actual manure flows. The services concerned, such as the NVWA, the RVO and the Public Prosecutor with the police, must therefore make targeted choices where they use their capacity. Mr Koffeman asked why reports from, among other things, the prosecution were not made public. For the report of the KLPD, I refer to the correspondence between the then Minister for Security and Justice and the House of Representatives. It is difficult, if not impossible, for me to deal with specific cases in this context. Regarding the compliance report of the NVWA, which states that compliance among intermediaries in 2014 was 61%, I can say that I sent it to the Chamber last week. The compliance rate from this report has previously been used in public publications, such as the Evaluation of Fertilisers Act 2016: Synthesis report. Mr Koffeman also asked about the exact number of declarations made by the sector organisations. We conduct administrative consultations with sector parties. I cannot now give an idea of the exact number of declarations made by the sector parties. I did receive recent figures this morning on the number of fines issued this year. With this, I would like to point out that the range between fines is very large. It ranges from fines from €100 to €275,000. So it goes from minor offences to very serious offences. There were a total of 1,316 fines, with a total amount of 8.6 million euros. So I can fight with these figures that there is no maintenance. Enforcement is indeed taking place. These figures also show that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u11	I know it will be maintained, but my question was more about the fact that, if you are aware of a criminal offence in the Netherlands, sector representatives of the LTO, for example, have stated several times that you know that there is a large-scale fraud, then you have to say, especially since the minister is at the table with those sector parties: at the time you are aware of a major violation of the law and you do not report it, you are guilty of law violations. That is different from the question of whether or not it is maintained. The question is real: if the sector parties have that knowledge, have they used it for declarations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u12	I believe that this comment is in line with the reason why I have been discussing this with the sector parties. It's two-fold. On the one hand, to point out that there are very good players in the sector, let us not forget that, but also some rotten apples and that these rotten apples can ruin the image for everyone. It is therefore in the interests of the sector itself to take responsibility for this. Then a government can make rules, and so do we. We have done the same in recent years. Then the government will also maintain it. That is what is happening, and I have also indicated it on the basis of recent figures, but at the moment when there is an atmosphere in which some parties keep each other's hands above their heads, the image for the whole sector is fucked up. It is therefore in the interests of the sector itself to act in this regard. I also pointed out in the discussion that it is important for the sector to pass on the signals it receives so that we can deal with this practice. I therefore fully endorse Mr Koffeman's plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u13	This is an interesting point. You said earlier in this debate that if a sector is not in touch with the intentions and the meaning of a law, it will not succeed in ensuring that the law works. My question to the Minister is whether we are doing the same in the case of other crime. Are we doing the same for other large-scale crime? Do we say: let these people first taste what this law means? I'd say we don't. We also know that it doesn't work, because the criminals are only after one thing, namely profit. As long as it remains profitable to cheat in this sector, the only thing that helps is a tough approach, tough enforcement. I still do not hear you say that in the debate. I would like you to say that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u14	I am not yet at the end of my speaking time. I would also like to use the rest of my speaking time to indicate that we are, of course, acting on our own. We can organise enforcement 'up to'. I have already used this image: we can put an inspector on every truck, but if there is a culture of covering things up and creating the possibility of this fraud being committed, then we will never be able to eradicate it completely. That is precisely why I have placed the responsibility on the sector itself. We have taken various measures in recent years, such as GPS systems, for example independent sampling of the type of manure, to make fraud more difficult to commit. The last measure entered into force on 1 October. At the moment when a carrier makes it possible for a farmer to cheat on manure, we maintain that system together. I want to avoid too easily looking at the government when the solver of the problem also lays down a responsibility to the sector itself. In addition, of course, we will also see how we can improve enforcement. The colleague of Justice and Security was just in your midst. I also have discussions with him on this issue, for example on how we can organise better cooperation with NVWA, the Public Prosecutor, the police and the environmental services, so that everyone can use each other's expertise and thus close the network around the criminals. Questions have also been asked about the burden of the environment on this issue. It concerns, for example, ammonia emissions and government models in this context. There has recently been a report on the nitrogen load of nature. I take this message seriously, too. For the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, a model is used to model ammonia emissions. This approach is part of the implementation of Natura 2000 policy. The decreasing trend in ammonia emissions after 2005 is not reflected in ammonia concentration measurement in the air. In order to explain this difference, RIVM is currently conducting further research on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. This study will be completed in the first half of 2018. Mr. Chairman. Mr Schalk asked what this meant for the derogation. Mr Koffeman has also asked for this. In Europe we are in intensive debate to ensure that the Netherlands can retain the derogation, the exception, as regards manure emissions. This is an important debate, because there is a lot at stake for many farms, also a lot of farms that are just doing well. I keep emphasising that. We have drawn up an action programme for this purpose, the sixth action programme for the Nitrates Directive. Within the framework of this action programme, many actions are being undertaken to ensure that we maintain soil quality and the quality of surface water and groundwater. We are also discussing this action programme in Europe. I would like to point out to Europe that we are very much in the process of implementing all these actions, because we ourselves, of course, understand the importance of soil quality and water quality. This is an interest of society as a whole. On the basis of the discussions we are having with Europe, I am hopeful that we can also maintain this derogation, but of course this is something that we all have to achieve. This requires an effort, not only from the government, but also from the farmers. Mr. Chairman. Finally, is there sufficient enforcement by NVWA? That was also a question from Mr Schalk. The NVWA must set priorities and always make a balance between different interests. The cabinet has indicated that the NVWA needs more resources to be able to do its job properly. The work of the NVWA is of great importance for the whole of the Netherlands. That is why 20 million additional funds are added to NVWA's resources. But I remain committed to stressing that this problem is not all soluble with additional inspectors, but with a culture in which everyone takes responsibility and also in this way ensures that soil quality and water quality are in order and that action is taken within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u15	One more question, though. There's a big problem. We are talking about large-scale crime and we are talking about keeping each other's heads above each other's backs. You just said that. Then I find it very remarkable that the Minister once again says that the NVWA should set priorities in enforcement. That's just too crazy for words, isn't it? This must be the main priority of the cabinet, namely to say that we no longer accept this. It's the core task of the government to make sure that this kind of thing doesn't happen. Why isn't that what you say? Why doesn't the NVWA immediately add a huge amount of extra capacity to deal with all those people who break the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u16	The NVWA is doing everything she can. I really want to emphasise that. I want to take away the image that the NVWA wouldn't give priority to this. But the NVWA has multiple tasks and multiple priorities. Then it's about things that you all think are important here, I think. I refer to public health, food quality and animal welfare. Fraud is indeed one of the priorities, but within it the NVWA makes choices and focuses on tasks with which it can be most effective. I have indicated that I am talking to my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security in order to increase effectiveness in this area as well. I see this in particular in cooperation between the State, the police, the NVWA and the regional environmental services. The NVWA does what it can, but if we give all the priority to this one point, we will have problems again in other areas, where there is also an important priority. It is precisely to stress that the NVWA is doing valuable work and that we want to strengthen it that the cabinet has made additional funds available to the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u17	I have received clear answers from the Minister. I understand her concerns, and we share them, but I do not agree with a second-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u18	Was this your answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u19	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u20	I thank the Minister, but a number of questions have not yet been answered. As far as monitoring is concerned, the Minister did not address the discrepancy between the numbers of animals kept. This is a responsibility of the municipalities. How can the Empire control when the municipalities are out of control or when there is no proper exchange? I also asked why the recent investigations of NVWA, RVO and KLPD were initially not made public. The police themselves doubt the ability to maintain administrative integrity. I am not talking about the 2003 report in which the police first expressed concerns about administrative integrity, but about the police's recent observations. I like the fact that they have been made public, but I would like to know why they were not initially made public. I also asked whether it was true that the Public Prosecutor's Office wanted to prosecute the lawyers who, according to the Public Prosecutor's Office, were at the centre of the Brabant manure fraud, but had to refrain from doing so because of lack of manpower at the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is an essential issue. It has been exposed in the newspaper and the NRC claims to have documents showing that. I would like an explanation from the Minister. Finally, I asked the Minister whether she could indicate what expectations she had of the plan of action that the sector would have to submit in two weeks' time and what requirements it would make for it, compared to the 2014 plan of action. The 2014 plan of action concerned the same parties. All kinds of promises were made then, in the vein of "we have it under control now." So I'd like to know from the minister what her observation is of that one plan of approach versus the new one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u21	It is correct that I have not yet answered a number of questions, so it is good that Mr Koffeman is pointing this out to me. First of all, I will deal with the relationship between the number of animals and the way in which the Empire sees them. Is the actual number right with what's given up? Those responsible for this are the municipalities. The municipalities must determine whether the declared numbers correspond to the actual numbers. As we know here, the provinces are the ones that are allowed to supervise it. That is what is happening in this division of responsibility. The Empire does not play a direct role in this; this is decentralised. Then there's the case in which the D.A. didn't investigate a case further. I have just indicated that it is not possible for me to enter a specific case of the Public Prosecutor. If there are any further questions on this, I can contact my colleague in the field of Justice and Security, but it is not up to me to provide information on this. Then there is the question of expectations and requirements regarding the plan of action. Further rules were laid down in 2014, also in connection with reports on manure fraud. I indicated that the last measure, the independent sampling of manure, started on 1 October. I will assess this plan of approach on the basis of what I call self-cleaning ability, which is included in the plan of action. What actions are the sector parties themselves taking to see if their members comply with the law? This is without prejudice to the fact that, of course, the government has the power to enforce if the law is infringed. So we are looking at how we can act more effectively. We will test the plan of action that I will discuss with the sector for feasibility and enforcement. In doing so, I will involve the NVWA, the RVO and the D.A. to see if the plans are appropriate. If not, I will ask them to take additional measures. In addition, we continue to act on our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u22	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u23	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first answer. The problem is clear: manure fraud turns out to be childishly simple and you can get stinking rich with it. Niels Lentjes uit Haalderen in Gelderland himself appreciates the mention of his full name in the news report, started at the age of 11 with large-scale manure fraud, made a huge amount of money and eventually got an administrative fine of €800,000. He went bankrupt and then continued his manure trade as if nothing had happened. According to Omroep Brabant, the manure transport company Daas BV received an administrative fine of 10 million. This makes clear the scale of the calculated risk that manure fraudsters take. That is a considerably higher administrative fine than the amounts mentioned by the Minister. Anne-Marie Spierings, the D66 deputy in Brabant, talks about "criminal organizations, who cannot count on the support of the province." It repeatedly offered the services of its provincial outdoor service to NVWA, but received no response. The D.A. didn't have the manpower to tackle the criminal networks that had mapped it out for manure fraud. And the NVWA and the RVO had to stop already started compliance due to lack of human strength. It cannot and must not be the case that we leave the unwelcome practices of the manure fraudsters unpunished and leave it to the Minister alone to say that it is not self-regulation, so let us call it self-enforcement or self-monitoring, which has been proven in the past that it does not work in this case. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Meijer, Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas illegal manure processing has been a major problem for nature and the environment for decades;]] [[Whereas the NVWA has had to discontinue compliance studies due to lack of human resources;]] [[Whereas the Office has had to abandon the treatment of criminal organisations in the manure sector due to lack of human resources;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a plan to address the issue of capacity problems in livestock supervisors as no longer a reason for not prosecuting criminal activities in the manure sector;]] [[Invites the Court to report to the Chamber within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33037-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, of course, welcome this new minister. I wish her much wisdom and success, but I do have some questions for her right now. She tells us that we have to make choices where we use the capacity. Should we not then ensure that this is no longer a choice that we have to make, but that this control is simply there? The minister just said that 1,306 fines show that there is enforcement, but maybe that's just the tip of the iceberg. I see that in the government agreement, the Minister is allocating 20 million for the strengthening of NVWA. Just now, she said that the NVWA is doing its best and that it does not want the extra commitment that the Minister should make on this dossier to the detriment of other priorities, otherwise it will be miserable there again. But the Minister does not mean by this to indicate that this capacity is simply insufficient to enforce our own rules? How much does it need to get that enforcement in order without it being at the expense of other enforcement? Finally, on this part, I would like to know what it is going to achieve with the 20 million. What objectives has it set for this purpose? I see the Minister in the Reformatorisch Dagblad last Friday saying: if government rules are stacked on line, there is no point if culture in the sector is not right. In this way, the Minister argues that the sector must show self-cleaning capacity. Those stories about fraud are not new, of course. That has been known for years and apparently it has also increased hand by hand. Everyone did or does participate in it. It's like the mob, I thought to myself. Does the Minister really think that self-cleaning capacity is sufficient to clean up this sector? I wonder whether it will keep us regularly informed of progress on this issue, for example on an annual basis. I would very much like to hear a commitment from the Minister. What is it going to do if this self-cleaning ability does not produce sufficient results? I'd like to hear from the Minister how she'll deal with that. Two more questions, Mr. Chairman, if I may. The Netherlands already has a derogation from Europe...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u26	Well, no, Mrs. Meijer. I'd like to say a few words about that. You've been over your speaking time for 11 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u27	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u28	I want to keep a tight grip on this. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u29	Then I'm gonna close here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u31	Thank you, Mr President. We have far too much manure in the Netherlands, far too many animals and a huge problem for our environment, our water, our soil, nature. It is not possible to control this problem, and the manure fraud is a major undermining of the difficult road to tackle the problem of manure at all. For years, there have been signs that this is happening. The NVWA publishes in a report that 31% of the companies, the intermediaries, do not comply with the rules. The PBL talks about 30% to 40% manure in the black circuit. These aren't "one rotten apple," Minister, as you just said. If you say now: I will allow the sector itself to make a plan for cultural change, because they will have to take action themselves, then I really wonder if you really think this is going to work. We are not asking other fraudsters to do this, are we? We're not asking money launderers to do this, are we? We're not asking drug criminals to make their own rules to talk to each other, are we? Mr President, this is completely naive and, moreover, I also believe that the sector has already sold out its credibility. There's only one ant...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u32	Let me get this straight. If I correctly interpret Mrs Vos's speech, she says that the whole agricultural sector is made up of fraudsters. I'm just thinking about what you're saying: I'm not asking other criminals to clean the Augiasstal themselves, am I? Here, on the clean side of agriculture, we are asked to do something about it, in support of the enforcers. The way you're saying it, criminals are being asked to do something. I thought that might be the end of the deal the minister made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u33	Of course not everyone participates, but it occurs on a large scale. To expect the sector to be able to solve this itself, it seems to me an impossible task. To be honest, I think that the sector should have shown this much earlier, because the signals that this was happening were known within the sector, but no action has been taken so far. I don't expect anything from the Minister's new attempt. As far as my group is concerned, there is only one response possible, namely tough action, control and enforcement, detection and prosecution. Put extra manpower into the NVWA and use the extra space in the coalition agreement; but if it is necessary, the cabinet will also have to make additional resources available, because we cannot allow this to continue. The fines are gonna have to go up a lot. There will be structural monitoring of compliance with the rules within all livestock farms and within all the farms concerned, and we ask the Minister to keep us very regularly informed of the results of these more intensive checks and measurements. We are calling for decisive action by the government against crime and we expect a plan of action from this minister. Make sure your credibility isn't compromised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u35	Mr. Chairman. We, too, welcome the Minister. We have great expectations of her and that starts this afternoon. We have two specific questions. The Minister has spoken of more than 1,300 fines, but at the same time she speaks of "some rotten apples." Does that mean that some companies have had hundreds of fines? Or is it more wide-ranging? Would the Minister like to outline once again the breadth in which it occurs? Secondly, the Minister said that the NVWA is doing what it can, but does the Minister agree with us that what NVWA is doing is not enough? Would she want to qualify for that? The manure problem. As a programmer in public service broadcasting, we made documentary films 30, 40 years ago about the huge manure problem. And actually, you have to see that nothing has changed in all this time and that it is building up. That is why we feel that a plan of action is needed. We believe in the goodwill of this minister, but we want to give her a little support at the start. More capacity is needed. That is why we will support Mr Koffeman's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u36	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Then I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality if she is able to respond directly. That's the case. I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u37	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for the questions, even in the second term. Mrs Vos points out: make sure that the government itself comes up with a plan of action. Well, I guess I'd better start with that. The order of things is that I attach great importance to the fact that a sector itself realizes that what is going on is very damaging to the whole sector. Just now when government immediately draws everything to you indicates that you don't put that responsibility there anymore. That is why I have asked myself about this sector: get to work now, that is also your responsibility. I indicated that, of course, we are not sitting still and that we are not doing nothing and are not just waiting to see what the sector comes up with. What I can promise, however, is that at the moment when a plan of action from the sector comes, I will give an appreciation to it and I will also indicate what the government, whatever we as a cabinet will do to strengthen the overall enforcement and possibly, where necessary, the detection. I can send that to your Chamber by the time I have had that conversation with that sector and I have seen what they themselves are coming up with. But I continue to stress that it is precisely the only way to ensure that we are able to break through this problem, which Mr Nagel says has been going on for so long, in another way, namely that every link in that chain is aware that this is totally irresponsible. So, Mr President, I can assure your Chamber that the moment the sector comes up with a plan, I will give it an appreciation. In doing so, I will indicate what we, as a cabinet, are doing. I can send that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u38	Mrs. Fox. Interrupts, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u39	Why don't you turn the order around? Why don't you come up with your plan of action first? Of course you also ask the sector to take its responsibility, but why not take the lead and say: this is how I'm going to do it, this is not acceptable anymore, I'm going to make sure that it just doesn't pay anymore and that it's no longer possible to break the rules on this large scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u40	I would like to stress that we have already indicated that we have introduced five rules in the last year. There is legislation, measures have been taken and there is enforcement. But if there is no common sense of this problem... I can put a lot of inspectors behind every truck, but if there is always a cover between what is happening there and there is no responsibility from the sector itself, then we will not solve this problem. So I think, precisely from the point of view of effectiveness, that this order must be followed once and for all. In recent years, we have always turned our backs, the government was the first to lay down rules and was backed up again. Those days are over. And I want to emphasise that with this order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u41	I think the Minister's getting a little tied up here. For she says: the sector must now solve it itself. In my view, this also recognises the weakness of the government itself. We have insufficient capacity, insufficient enforcement in the house to organize it all. At the same time, we see that it is at the expense of water quality, soil quality, air quality and health. So I would like to make an appeal to the Minister to do it on his own. Furthermore, she says: I would, of course, like to let you know what the plan is for the sector. Can she promise us that we will be kept regularly informed of the state of play?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u42	As I have just indicated, we have very recent figures on fines. We can send it to you right away. We immediately sent the NVWA's report, which stated compliance, to the Chamber. But I am prepared to say that we will also keep your Chamber regularly informed, and I would like to stress that there must of course be some time in it to get a good picture of it. I don't think I can send an overview here every month. But I'd like to keep you regularly informed as a chamber. I am assuming once a year that I can tell you what compliance has been and what developments have been in this respect. I can give that to your Chamber, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u43	Finally, Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u44	Because I think the Minister is skipping part of my question. Wouldn't you take enforcement on your own, instead of leaving it to a sector that's been making a mess of it for decades?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u45	I continue to fight the image that we are not enforcing. The fact that I have just indicated that we have issued 1,316 fines this year shows, I think, that we are maintaining it. There have also recently been judgments from the court in which real criminal activities are condemned. So there are indeed activities taking place. I want to fight that image strictly. However, I would also like to stress that we should not have the illusion that if we place an inspector everywhere, we will solve this problem. It really needs to be done together. In that order, I also indicated it. The sector has a responsibility, the government has a responsibility, and in this way we want to tackle manure fraud more effectively. Mrs Meijer also asked: what about the prioritisation of NVWA? I just tried to sketch the playing field. The NVWA has various responsibilities and various tasks. To give just one example: in recent months the NVWA has been very busy around the fipronil affair. The NVWA must prioritize each time. The NVWA also tries to have a certain degree of flexibility in this, because sometimes things arise that demand action from the NVWA. The NVWA oversees fraud. I'm trying to increase effectiveness, along with the colleague of Justice and Security. I'll report to your Chamber on that, too. Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Vos asks if we can't step up. I think I just answered that. I have also just indicated that we will keep the Chamber regularly informed by sending the figures to your Chamber. Mr Nagel asks: can more than 1,300 fines be regarded as large-scale? Yeah, that's big. I was talking about some bad apples, but perhaps I should say that there is fraud on a scale that we cannot accept with each other. In the last report I sent to the Chamber, the NVWA estimated that there was a 31% non-compliance, while 39% was also mentioned. Between 30% and 40%, we call it ourselves. There are also cases in which multiple fines can be imposed on one company. So it doesn't coincide one-on-one with the number of companies. Exactly how that relates, I don't have those insights. I'd like to try to see what that's like. I don't know if I can deliver that very quickly. These were just the most recent figures I received and I didn't want to remember your room. If there is a need for a more detailed breakdown, I would like to try to do so so so that we can give your Chamber a better picture of that. I believe that I have answered the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u46	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Oh, I won't close her for a while. Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u47	The Minister has not yet arrived at a response to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u48	That's right, I'm gonna get it right now. The motion calls on the government to come up with a plan of action in such a way that the capacity problems in the supervisor can no longer be a reason. I understand the spirit of the motion, but if I take it literally, that should mean that I need to put in much more extra supervisors to address this point. As indicated above, the cabinet provides an additional 20 million in structural terms for the NVWA. Mr Koffeman may have read in the government's agreement that this is also reflected in the priorities of animal welfare and food quality. I believe that these priorities should appeal to Mr Koffeman's party. If I were to take this motion so literally, I would have to dissuade it, because that would be at the expense of other priorities that we have also set out in the coalition agreement. This is without prejudice to the fact that I will inform your Chamber of how I intend to improve the effectiveness of monitoring of manure fraud together with the D.A., the police and the environmental services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u49	Shortly, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u50	I am a little disappointed by what the Minister says about the spirit of the motion. I have kept it as lenient as possible, namely: never again be an argument that we do not have the people to act. You have indicated that you want to act, so in that sense the motion would really only support policy. I did not mention any numbers or amounts, but I only asked the Minister to come up with a plan of action, so that the Public Prosecutor and NVWA never again have a reason: we do not have the human force to act where action is needed. That's not too much to ask, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u51	Mr Koffeman uses the words "never again." It is also about the prosecution, which I must understand with the colleague of Justice and Security. I would like to remove the illusion that if we put so many supervisors or inspectors on it, the problem would be gone. We all have to do that, and I cannot promise that 'never again', so I would have to advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-5.u53	I propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled. I thank the Minister for the information he has provided. I shall suspend the sitting for a single minute, pending the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
