ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u1	So, ladies and gentlemen. The next item is the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate and Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, and then for Economy and Climate, including Budget Climate Infrastructure and Water State, excluding Digital Government and Electric Transport. A warm word of welcome to the Minister and the Secretary of State. We are delighted with 18 speakers from the Chamber. If people wanted to have their conversations outside, I'd be grateful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u2	We are going to listen to the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. That's Mr. Graus. He speaks on behalf of the Party for Freedom. He's going to speak to us for ten minutes in his first term. The floor is therefore for him to speak. Mr. Graus. Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u3	Mr President, we know you as a strict but just chairman. I was wondering how many interruptions you were going to allow us tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u4	The righteous isn't really here today. That was outside the budget to finance me for this evening. I wanted to limit it to four interruptions per group. Let's talk about this evening. We'll reschedule tomorrow. And in terms of household announcements, we also need to take a dinner break somewhere. I'll do it somewhere between 6:30 and 6:45. But three interruptions per group seems perfect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u5	You just said four, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u6	Well, I don't remember. I'm getting older, but it's not that fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u7	Four's nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u8	I call Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have already had the opportunity to meet the new rulers bilaterally. It was a pleasant conversation. I look forward to working together. It's not just a minister and a secretary of state do that. There are also ministers who have not spoken to me yet. They're thinking, "Well, we can do without those 20 seats from the PVV." But maybe you will. We are the second largest party in the Netherlands and some magazines have already mentioned us as one of the entrepreneurial parties, and some even the entrepreneurial party. What's my surprise? Every year I always received questions from SMEs-Netherlands and also from ONL, Retailers Netherlands, franchise organisations,zzp organisations and so on. Since we've been doing good with entrepreneurs, I haven't heard from anyone. I even spoke to the director of the SME Netherlands. It tossed. He thought I'd fall for it if he didn't know it was me. It's a real shame. I find it really scandalous how interest groups deal with the interests of entrepreneurs. The last word has not yet been said on this subject. While the government speaks of rapid economic growth, the common man, and especially the smaller entrepreneur, notices little to nothing from the end of the last recession. The government also seems to punish rather than reward those who helped us out of the crisis. Among other things, by increasing the low VAT rate and allowing them to pay for the abolition of dividend tax, a reduction in the burden on multinationals, against whom these small entrepreneurs are already unable to make a fist. So they're basically double-trapped. Moreover, we are faced with a often uneven playing field with false competition. That's true. There is no level playing field within Europe either. I will give some examples of this when I have the time. What are the rulers going to do about this? Anyone who feels called to do so can answer that. We are also prepared to table a motion to reverse the proposed increase in the low VAT rate, because that simply cannot be done. It gives you an even bigger playing field. We would like to see a study in which new border effects are tested for road leakage effects throughout this whole story, because that is what is going to happen. That turned out to be a few years ago. Even small family businesses in Limburg were affected, such as beer brewers who have been around for decades. Because people aren't just going to gas across the border, they're going to do their shopping there and get their crate of beer and bag of potatoes. You can do that right there. Those are road leaks. I'd like to have an investigation into that. I'd like a response. Why is the government taking money from their cash flow? Why? Why do reputable and trustworthy companies no longer get a coulance from the Tax Administration if there is still hope on the horizon? Even companies with relatively low debts are written off in the bankruptcy pool so that the Tax Administration has taken another case off. Of course you can't. Sometimes you have to be a coulant and help people. That's what the IRS has always done in the past. What's the reason all that doesn't happen anymore? I would like to ask the heads of economic affairs, the shepherds of the sheep, the entrepreneurs. Banks, which were at the root of the financial crisis, no longer fulfil their original tasks and are stuck in the various Basel agreements. SMEs, the economic and job engine, took the heavy hits on them, and our citizens too have had to bleed for that, thanks to the fact that small businesses can hardly get the necessary funding through forced tightening of the money market. The previous minister, Minister Kamp, also promised to improve, but people do not notice. It's not noticeable to them. If very small entrepreneurs just as quickly need small funding of several tens of thousands of euros, they simply cannot do so. Securities that banks and growth accelerators put on entrepreneurs are insanely heavy. The PVV has therefore been advocating a national savings bank for many years, where citizens store their savings at real interest rates and provide funding to sound and correct entrepreneurs. Surely that should be possible, a national savings bank? Those motions of ours aren't gonna make it. We have even sometimes tabled an amendment on the proceeds of the sale of ABN; we also had financial coverage. But it just doesn't happen. We want a protection plan for companies of national interest, including our three large private employers: PostNL, Schiphol, KLM. We also do not want the flight tax to be introduced, because Schiphol and KLM also have to deal with a completely uneven playing field. They have a lot of false competition, including from the Middle East and in the future more and more from Asia in view of the kerosene advantage there is. It can't be. We shouldn't do that. We shouldn't want that. It's been wiped off the track once before because it's really bad. We want protection of and a level playing field for mainport Rotterdam and brainport Eindhoven. Let's not forget that. It's all still in its infancy, but keep an eye on it. They are primordial-Holland entrepreneurs and crafts. What is the government going to do to prevent and, where possible, repair the major image damage caused by the Dutch food scandal on food scandal? It's here, too, not just with LNV. It is a damage that we have suffered as a country. As the Swiss had and have the best watches, and the Germans the best cars, so we were known for our products and our food safety. There are some assholes who screw that up. They don't get caught enough on their shoelace. They must be given prison sentences and massive fines in relation to the crime, which are detrimental to a crime. Put on adoption-and-shaming and impose a professional ban. This must be done by these govern ments as well. Get those bastards out of society! Because the whole of the Netherlands has been damaged by all these food scandals. What are we going to do against the growing and false competition in aviation from Asia and the Gulf States? PostNL, Schiphol, KLM and other companies must compete in a completely unequal playing field against foreign companies that often receive state aid. It can't be. This is also true of our national pride: the maritime sector. I'm very proud of that. Due to the procurement rules imposed by the European Union, a campaign is being prepared abroad around the Dutch orders. That's impossible, isn't it? No way! We shouldn't allow that. We have been the best in trade, shipping and shipbuilding for centuries. It is a completely self-creating sector of world fame. Traditionally, we have been the best in the world for centuries. How will the government, together with the Dutch maritime sector, ensure that Michiel Adriaensson de Ruyter does not have to turn around in his grave and that investment programmes including tenders remain within the national tricolor? I'd like a response. I am prepared to table a motion for this too, because I am sure that I will receive the full support of the Chamber. VDL Nedcar in Born, in my own Limburg, assembles since the rescue of that beautiful company with thousands of jobs not only MINI's, born in Born, but also BMW's, made in Holland. Why is nothing still being done about my request that I have been here for years? Go put in more Dutch cars. Thousands of jobs, it's all economic gain. Now, why don't you put in more Dutch cars as a government car, where possible? Why don't you go check that out? I'm asking you again. I'd like a response. The province of Limburg did something with my call. For example, they have purchased several MINI and BMW's as a public car and that's how it's supposed to be. When Volvo rescued the DAF factory, they also received a whole order from Volvo 340's for the state police. They also went with Volvo V70's. With all due respect, we must do the same now. Those people helped us, and then we have to do something in return. Moreover, they are Dutch products, made in Holland. We should be proud of that. We also want much more to be done with the Dutch flag. If you're in Austria, where I like to go, or in Italy, you'll see Italian and Austrian flags everywhere. In Hungary, everywhere. We're pretty much the only country that doesn't. When I buy something in Germany, I see on the cheeses and on everything that comes from the Netherlands the Dutch flag is very large. It's crazy that foreigners do that with our products, but we don't? I want our products to be at eye level and the government can put pressure on them. I believe that we should do more to promote, for example, the Netherlands and Dutch products. I'd like a response. I also have bilateral ideas about this. I'd be happy to leave it with the rulers. Find the holes and opportunities to serve our national interest. Your own people first. Your own people first. Own country first. Own farmers, gardeners and fishermen first. Own entrepreneurs first. But also own MINI's and BMW's first. I would like to ask for an investigation into the consequences of VAT inequality. I already asked. I want the road leak effects to be taken into account, a kind of border impact test. That has already been done once, but I would like that to happen again. Especially now, with the proposed VAT increase in the low rate, I would like to have that settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u10	Mr Graus is afraid that Mr Michiel Adriaensson de Ruyter will turn around in his grave, but I think he would turn around in his grave if he listened to you now. He sailed the world seas to protect free trade. What you are actually saying is: let us put Dutch products at eye level, so that people cannot see the foreign products. What do you think will happen to Heineken? What do you think will happen to Unilever's products? The Netherlands is an exporting country. If all countries do this, we're worse off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u11	No, not at all. We are currently the highest net contributor per capita to the European Union, including our entrepreneurs. We're not the highest net receiver. I've been told that with that money even jeu-de-boules are built and I know it all. What matters is that we pay relatively much, whereas we used to have free trade, even if it had remained with the EEC. Switzerland had a free trade agreement with China before the whole of the European Union together. So that's bullshit. I am sure that we would have succeeded more quickly if we had not been members of the European Union. Didn't we get along well with the trade for centuries? That's what you're saying. I want to. I don't want to say anything about that. I'm just saying we need to do a little more to promote our own products. 'Cause what's going on here? We all get cheap Asian crap on the market, which is often not as high quality as a German or Dutch product. After all, BMW's and MINI's are now being built in the Netherlands. That's what I meant. But you can't. Charges are put on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u12	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u13	Then those cars are priceless.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u14	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u15	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let's use them and promote them wherever possible. They're our jobs. It's our economy. It's our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u16	Mr Paternotte, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u17	I'm right here. Mr President, I am a Dutch representative of the people. I have nothing to do with the European Union. I am under the Dutch flag here and I have nothing else to do with anyone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u18	BMWs and MINIS are being built here, but this is done by foreign companies coming here because we have an open economy and an open attitude. The PVV says that a nextit would be the best route for the Netherlands. But what you see now is that companies leave Britain earlier because they are wondering whether they should continue to invest there. If we withdraw behind the dikes, then of course this will not lead to more investment. This only means that we have fewer jobs and less economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u19	I don't share that. We're not getting out of there tonight either. No way, believe me. We could eat 100 stuffed cakes together, but we're not gonna get out of there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u20	We've got time, you know!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u21	But we are not the British, we are Dutch. And if we were to leave the European Union, I would be quite sure, given our trading spirit of centuries, centuries, centuries, that we will not. Why don't you just leave that to us? I'm not saying we should boycott anything. All I'm saying is that we should be a little more proud and use our own products a little more. That is quite different from what Mr Paternotte says: nephew of. Sorry, Mr. Paternotte, cousin of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u22	You're continuing. Time's running out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u23	I'm running out of time, so I'll leave Groningen to Mrs. Beckerman. It's from there. I'm really sorry about what's going on in there. I've been there in a street with people who can't come back to the old places. That is why I would just like to ask the following questions about the area of damage caused by natural gas extraction. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, for cutting off too much. But please, I really ask the Minister: make sure that these people can at least return to their own places where their fathers once built garages and where the children grew up. Those people have been punished enough already. They're traumatized. They have suffered physical, mental and economic damage. Please do something about it. And I have an advice without wanting to name anyone at a disadvantage: if someone doesn't get it right, sometimes you have to put other people on a project like this. It works sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u24	You've run out of time, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u25	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I'm gonna go grab something from the second term. Well, I guess I'm gonna have to file fewer motions. I want to talk about the carnival operators. Everybody's gonna laugh about that, but they're hard-working people. We know hundreds of them. That's also a popular culture, a tradition, like the circus. Those carnival operators are really in big trouble. It's like they're being bullied away by the city. It's unlikely what these people have to pay. Other activities take precedence over a carnival, they pay high rents for pitches and diesel costs. They also suffer a great deal from undermining crime against which no action is taken. I would like to ask the directors to talk to the BOVAK and the Dutch Fairground Association, to come out here, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. We wouldn't have to do that in this place, would we? So do the directors want to talk to the BOVAK and the Dutch Fair Federation about all the problems I have just outlined? Also read: Fishman furious about loading post for stall. Then you always stand there, day and day, out to provide us with primary necessities of life, and then just a pole is put down. It's all bullying; it can't be done, guys. That's not how we treat our entrepreneurs, is it, with people who never bother you? Those people never bother you. They work their asses off, and they only get caught where they can. You can't, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u26	"They work very hard," you would have said, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u27	Yes. Mr President, then there is the SME test, which came with it thanks to us. Thus, we have also become part of the big business parties. Work is still ongoing, often imposed by the European Union, but often also nationally, with directives, laws, rules that are unworkable and not workable. Take the landing obligation for our fishermen. What are the rulers going to do about it? I know that in part, when it comes to fishermen, it lies with Minister Schouten, but I am also referring to all the other entrepreneurs. What is unworkable, creates an uneven playing field, is feasible, unreal, unlikely? I would have liked to have had a reaction to that. Finally. On our largest private employer, PostNL, we are extremely proud. This also has to do with the thousands of mailboxes they provide, with the letter secret, the medical post, the tens of thousands of jobs they provide. What is more beautiful in the Netherlands than the cheerful postman who also shows people the way and reliably delivers the mail? I'm really worried. I have predicted that liberalisation in an unequal market with false competition could go very wrong. That's what's happening: it's going very, very wrong. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that. We've had debates on it. I would also like the points I have just mentioned to be taken into account, including in the shrinking areas. I'm gonna try again. My policy officer and p.a. Joyce Schmeitz has developed a postmobile. VDL was very excited about it. They can rely on this. This mobile has an ATM and is suitable for small window handling for old people of days and disabled people in the shrinking areas, where also mailboxes and post offices disappear. Talk to Mrs Verhagen, one of the best female managers in our country. Have a word with the old Mr. Van der Veegte, who unfortunately has recently stopped, a man who should one day get a statue in our State Passage, if it's up to me. Go talk to me. Those people see something in that. Something can be done with that. The government will also have to contribute to this. They are also the people of these rulers. I'd like a reaction to that. That is what I will have to leave for now in the first term, Mr President. Good luck in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u28	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u29	It's gonna be a rough night for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u30	But I'm excited. We are now going to listen to two representatives of the VVD, both of whom will speak for twelve minutes in the first term. First, we are going to listen to Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u31	Mr. Chairman. The economy is growing, the number of jobs is growing, the number of vacancies is growing. After difficult years, the Netherlands is getting better economically. On most of the rankings, the Netherlands simply scores well: the world's fourth competitive economy, the world's second food exporter and, according to the European Commission, Europe's fourth most innovative country. The challenge is to keep what goes well, or even improve it. We are facing a huge technological revolution, increasingly rapid developments in technology, further digitisation and also a huge energy transition. My colleague Yeşilgöz will be addressing climate and this energy transition in a moment. Mr. Chairman. The huge technological development that we stand for provides care and opportunities. Concerns about our companies: can they all keep up? We all know the examples of this world, the Kodaks who, despite having a thousand patents, did not save it in digital photography. Think of a Dutch company like the Free Record Shop, which has missed the battle somewhere. With every company falling over, jobs are also disappearing. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, technological development also offers opportunities, especially for a country like the Netherlands. A country with the smartest region in the world with Brainport Eindhoven. A country with an innovative manufacturing industry in, for example, the Achterhoek and Twente. With Brightlands in Limburg and with innovative gardeners in our greenports. In the golden triangle between business, science and government, we will have to make the most of innovation. From the fourth most innovative in Europe to a place on stage in the top three. Not for that fine ranking itself, but for the preservation and expansion of our employment. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch innovation policy is good, that may be said. But of course, that's no reason to sit back. It could be even more effective. It is therefore a good thing that the current top sectors policy, spread across nine top sectors, is transformed into three themes, so that the existing top sectors are better linked to each other and more to economic opportunities. Can the Minister indicate how he intends to fly into this transformation? Mr. Chairman. I mentioned a number of pearls. One of those pearls is Brainport Eindhoven, one of our mainports since last year. Can the Cabinet indicate what the joint agenda development will look like? How are we going to maximise the potential of the Brainport together? Mr. Chairman. Innovation requires investment. The good thing is that in the coalition agreement we agreed to allocate extra money for innovation, for applied research, up to 200 million. The question is, how are we going to spend that? The Minister will come up with proposals, but I would like to stress here, now, that this money should really be available for innovation and not for things that may look a bit like it. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw this attention to innovation resources in the light of the objective for the Netherlands to invest 2.5% of gross domestic product in research and development, research and development in 2020. We're not gonna make it. The investment level is now just above 2%. This will therefore require an additional effort in the years to come. One of the specific arrangements we know is the Wbso. This is well-used in such a way that the available budget is even exceeded. It has therefore been announced for next year that the different percentages will be adjusted. This is budgetaryly understandable, but it is an annoying adjustment, as we are reducing too much use from 2016 on the 2018 budget. It is certainly annoying as we want to stimulate private spending on R&D. Now the Wbso will be evaluated in 2018. That is why I would like to call on the Minister to include in this evaluation whether there is a better system than this t-1/t+1 calculation, which does not require a discount in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u32	I appreciate Mr Veldman's call to look closely at the Wbso. This is an important scheme, including for SMEs. But he's actually asking for an evaluation in 2018. Then we are already in 2019. Then it may be that the announced tariff reduction has already been implemented. Is Mr. Veldman also willing to fight with me against a tariff reduction in 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u33	Sure. That is why I call on the Minister to speed things up. 2018 is close. But I think we've known for a long time that we want to evaluate the Wbso in 2018. So, if the Minister is going to speed that up, I think it should be possible to make choices in 2018 that will allow us to fix the limitation that has now been announced in a decent way. Mr. Chairman. Although the Wbso is certainly well used by SMEs, we see that SMEs in particular are lagging behind the objective of investing in R&D. This raises the question of whether the full instruments we have are working optimally. That is why I am asking the cabinet how it intends to encourage it to reach the target of 2.5% by 2020. When can the Chamber expect an extension of the Mkb Innovation Incentive scheme Top sectors, the MIT? Mr. Chairman. The VVD aims to continue to monitor and adapt, where necessary, the quantity and quality of the individual incentive schemes. If we can do better, we should do better. In particular, accessibility is a concern, also in view of recent reports from the Metal Union, for example, that SMEs sometimes find it difficult to find their way. We can't blame those SMEs for that. The majority of small and medium-sized enterprises consist of businesses of four people or less. Those entrepreneurs do not have time to find their way through all kinds of incentives. So we have to operate it to the maximum. Mr. Chairman. SMEs account for most of our employment. A small group of SMEs, around 10%, are now creating new jobs for SMEs. Most of it doesn't grow or hardly does. Now, of course, it's not bad if SMEs don't grow. Some people don't even want to grow. However, with increasing technological development and digitalisation, it may also happen that SMEs miss the turn-off somewhere, while our tools should be focused on facilitating businesses as well as possible. The VVD therefore wants a plan of approach and a good direction from Economic Affairs, so that the commitment from the various departments aimed at SMEs is also well realised. Mr. Chairman. The previous cabinet has put a lot of effort into reducing the regulatory burden. The VVD wants this cabinet to make a full effort. What is the Secretary of State's objective in addressing the regulatory burden? When does the Court see the proposal for drawing up, for example, the SME test? How is the Cabinet going to implement the possibilities for regional and sectoral pilot projects, legal experimental space and test sites? How and where are control-free zones enlarged? Finally, a large majority of the Chambers of the Advisory College's decision to set up the Advisory Board's review of regulatory pressure have stated that the College should be able to assess the regulatory burden more broadly. What is the progress of this? As far as the VVD is concerned, attention is also given to the future resilience of rules. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Invest-NL, the new investment institution with a capital of EUR 2.5 billion. The VVD is positively critical. Creating extra investment space is good, but everything stands or falls with good design. Invest-NL needs to add something and not stand in the way of existing private or government instruments. This calls for the ability to act quickly and with short lines. Can the Minister indicate how he intends to further shape Invest-NL? Can he indicate what focus he might want to focus on? And when can the Chamber receive a further framework for Invest-NL? Mr. Chairman. In general, the VVD notes that difficult access to finance is an obstacle for SMEs in particular. We are in favour of improving knowledge about financing. In the education budget, the VVD has already highlighted the usefulness of focusing on entrepreneurship in education. This includes knowledge of funding. Does the Secretary of State share this view? If so, is she prepared to work on this with her colleagues in the cabinet? Apart from that, of course, we also call on financiers to look over the fence of their own window. If a bank cannot be of service to an entrepreneur, a warm reference to another window is more than welcome. Mr. Chairman. In the context of financing companies, I also call for attention to be given to the modification of the ban on pledges. The previous cabinet has agreed to take steps in this regard. From this cabinet I ask you to make haste with this. Mr. Chairman. Especially in the case of all kinds of technological developments, it is good to secure ownership properly. We do that by issuing patents. The question is whether the current patent law is still entirely tailored to the speed of developments we are now aware of. Is it well organized on the cooperation that demands innovation today? In order to protect inventions well but also to create scope for further development and application, the VVD wants to investigate the introduction of a so-called "grace period" for patents: a period prior to the filing of your patent application within which you can show your invention in public without having any impact on the application. In Europe, we do not know this time limit. This period is known in the United States and Japan. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u34	Let me do the first interruption. It's so boring that I thought: let's have a little debate too. The VVD always has a very nice story about SMEs and about entrepreneurs: "we are an entrepreneurial party" and so on. But we have been working here in the Chamber for five years to regulate lending to SMEs. We've filed five years of motions to move your former minister, Kamp, to get banks to grant credit. You just put forward an idea: more education should be given to entrepreneurs on how to apply for funding. And: the banks must refer. We have all tried that in the past few years, but we have not. What concrete, real, decisive proposals does the VVD have to help SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u35	Fortunately, we see that things are improving in the Netherlands. We also see a lot of companies growing. They do this, among other things, because they are currently able to obtain funding in a number of areas. We also see that banks deliver better in that respect. But it shouldn't just come from banks. There are more forms of financing. We need to make maximum use of that with each other. Hence my appeal to banks: if a bank does not want or can finance something, it is up to that bank to refer the entrepreneur to where it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u36	Has the VVD spokesperson looked at where on the list we are in Europe when it comes to lending to SMEs? We are Europe's worst lender. Even Greece is doing better. Isn't that embarrassing to see a party who has been in the cabinet for two periods and who claims to stand up for entrepreneurs and bad lenders? And what's the reason? The banks. The VVD is afraid to deal with the banks. They don't give credit. The large companies have received credit, not the small ones. That is why I ask you to come up with a decisive solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u37	I don't think we have the banks on a string. It is not the government here or the minister here who says to a bank: you will now grant a credit here and there. But of course we encourage banks, especially now that economic weather is improving, to be creative and to use their opportunities and to do their best to help entrepreneurs who need credit. But the government doesn't control banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u38	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u39	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a leading position in the field of digitalisation. We are the number one in connectivity in Europe and the number four in digitalization in general. Fast internet is becoming increasingly important, especially for companies. This applies not only to start-ups, but also, for example, to farmers in the outskirts who need a good connection with their digital equipment in the stables. The VVD wants an extra boost to maintain this head position. We are concerned with accessibility. We should not make the system choice here, but we should aim to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands has or gets the fast internet. Mr. Chairman. The final point, for my part, is that we want the market, science and government to jointly define their annual ambition and concrete targets for digitisation. This can be done through an annual digital summit following the example of the German Digital Gipfel. Does the Cabinet share our opinion? Is the Cabinet prepared to commit itself to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u40	Thank you. Then there is the second speaker on the VVD side. But there is another question from Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u41	I do not have so much a question about what Mr Veldman said, because I understand that story. Boosting innovation, stimulating SMEs and reducing burden and regulatory burdens: everything to promote economic growth. But I missed an important part, an important bottleneck, in Mr Veldman's contribution. What are we going to do to eliminate the shortage of professionals? Isn't that the most obvious bottleneck for economic growth at the moment? Don't we leave the shortage of professionals without growth potential? What does the VVD want to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u42	That is a point that Mr Moorlag is right to make. Fortunately, we have paid attention to this with each other when dealing with the education budget. It's good to do that here, too. Because, yes, there is a shortage of staff in various sectors. I know companies in the Achterhoek, engineering companies, who are jumping over interns. They're jumping over people who work with them. We have previously closed the Technics Pact for this, and fortunately we will continue to do so. Together, together with educational institutions, we must also continue to work towards a good match between education and the labour market. I am very pleased that companies are also trying to do this and that they want to intervene against education in order to ensure together that we deliver good and well-qualified people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u43	Do you therefore share the view that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs, a targeted and concerted effort should be made to overcome the shortage of professionals? My question is what a knowledge-based economy is when knowledge is not applied because of a lack of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u44	We need to ensure that we have sufficiently well-educated people, both highly educated and middle-aged. Because it's not just in the highly educated. We also need a lot of extra people at MBO level. This means, in particular, that there must be a proper link between education and the labour market in all those areas of education that we have. That requires something from entrepreneurs. That requires something from our educational institutions. We've closed the Technics Pact for that before. That's what we're gonna do. That should also lead us to the point that we have sufficient staff in all those places where it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u45	I have a question for Mr Veldman, in fact, in connection with the debate in the First Chamber. There Frank de Grave, a party member of Veldman, called for a better alternative to removing the dividend tax. What is a better alternative than investing in the locational environment in the Netherlands by ensuring that there are many more and better skilled technical professionals? This is important for the energy transition. This is important for SMEs and for our competitiveness. Do you think that's a better alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u46	I also heard Mr De Grave in the First Chamber. I think he has asked not so much for a better alternative but for a good justification of the choice to remove the dividend tax. That seems to me to be a fair question from a senator when the cabinet presents its plans there as well. The role of a senator is also to weigh the whole thing up. So it seems very good to me that the VVD in the First Chamber has also asked for a good justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u47	It's always a pity to avoid a question. If you care about SMEs, is it much better to spend 1.4 billion in structural terms on matters that benefit SMEs than, for example, a headquarters of Unilever where less than 100 people work? Why not opt for a much more responsible use of that huge amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u48	I think it's a responsible use. SMEs also benefit from this. The art is to have multinationals in this country that SMEs work for and cooperate with. That goes hand in hand. Without the multinationals, we also have far fewer SMEs. One thing helps the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u49	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u50	Mr. Chairman. I'm speaking climate and energy for a month today. So I'm still at the stage where I like to be surprised. During the work I noticed two things, which are prolonged each other, incredibly. I'd like to share them with you today. First of all, I call it the polar bear effect. Once in a while, a picture of an emaciated polar bear goes viral. Same thing last week. "This is what global warming looks like: emaciated polar bear is searching for food with last strength," headlined a national newspaper with a heartbreaking photo of a lingering polar bear. I'm a big animal lover, and my heart broke too. But if we leave the emotion out for a moment and look at the facts, then we can see that there can be many different causes why a polar bear dies: age, illness, a fight with a colleague. There's no indication that this polar bear died from global warming. But reverse stories, presented as facts, do not contribute to the discussion and certainly not to the solution. I am thinking of scientists who claim that there is no reason to regard climate change as a problem. Take Marcel Crok. There are also moments in this house in which emotion prevails during the debate. Take the debate on energy taxation recently. The risk is that we are going to have facts-free debates here, with which, as far as I am concerned, we are achieving exactly the opposite of what we want, namely that we can underpin our choices and thus have sufficient support in our country for the greatest challenge of our century: the energy transition. This cabinet has set the bar high. The coalition agreement clearly states that the Netherlands will be sustainable. That's not a choice, that's a necessity. We have to be honest: we really have to do a lot for that. The previous cabinet has taken important steps. Think of the energy agreement and the Paris climate agreement, in which 195 countries agreed to limit global warming. The VVD supports these agreements, if only to make ourselves less dependent on oil from the Middle East or gas from Russia. But without support, we are simply not going to achieve these goals. In order to maintain the support base, it is extremely important that we are clear and clear, but also that we are not patronising. We're not gonna tell people to leave the car, to turn down the heat, or to stop eating meat. Dutch people can determine that very well for themselves. Such patronizing behaviour effectively hinders climate policy. The beautiful thing is: a lot of Dutch people are already working hard on sustainability. What they need from the government are clear frameworks and agreements. That is why I was so happy when, two weeks ago, the Minister agreed to propose a new arrangement for the balancing of renewable energy by the summer of 2018. Investment security for consumers wishing to invest in solar panels is very important. As this Minister said recently, it is now all hands on deck. As far as I am concerned, it should be clear that we really do not have the luxury of wasting our time with facts-free stories. We just have to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u51	I hear we shouldn't patronize and we shouldn't ban anything. It is said that we should not ban people from eating meat. I agree with that in itself, but does the VVD also agree that the government can control behavior? We put an extra burden on unhealthy things like smoking or drinking alcohol. We can control people's behavior by making it more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u52	The VVD believes that you should be very reluctant about that. We're not in favour of controlling behavior. You mentioned the example of smoking. I am also thinking of a number of green measures in our tax system. But to start directing behavior in every area of a person's life... we're not for that. And the beauty of it is that people can decide for themselves. People decide how often they eat meat, whether they catch the bike, the train or the car. We see around us that people are becoming more and more sustainable. Apart from the question of whether we disagree ideologically, I also believe that this patronization is really not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u53	Of course, it's more than patronizing. The cabinet agrees that meat is the least sustainable part of our food package. You can also simply say that seems to me to be a typical VVD position that the polluter has to pay. Does the VVD agree with me that this would also apply to food, so that the most polluting part of the food package is also the most heavily taxed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u54	No. Mr. Chairman. My second wonder is a lasting one. As much as I know how the Dutchman works, full of creativity and courage, I still wonder. As one of the most innovative economies in the world, as my colleague Mr Veldman has just said, this energy transition, the huge challenge we face, is being borne by the strength and ambition of our Dutch companies and entrepreneurs. The key word for achieving the climate objectives is innovation. Our country is at the forefront of innovation in many sectors, and it can do so now. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are really going to shape this transition on its Dutch side. So do not stand on the sidelines and complain that there is no need at all for a transition and that climate change is a hoax, as some people want us to believe, but also do not think and try to force that our way of life must be broken down in order to achieve the climate goals. No, we are doing this with common sense, as I said before: on its Dutch side by leading the way with innovative ideas, applying them here and exporting our knowledge and skills. We see opportunities for our country, for our economy, our knowledge institutions and for our exports. This is an effective climate policy: internationally oriented and innovative. It has to be internationally oriented, because we can't do this alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u55	Normally, of course, we are very proud of this export, but how does the VVD group view this year as a top year for the export of Groningen gas? Surely that is something the VVD Group can only reject? We want to give Groningers a good life and we therefore want to reduce the use of Groningen gas. That is also an objective in the coalition agreement. And then this minister confirms in a letter that 2017 is really a top year for the export of that gas. Will we join forces as VVD and GroenLinks to reduce this export as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u56	I have indeed read the Minister's answer to these questions. It had several causes, but let me just answer directly what is being asked. We are in favour of a reduction in gas extraction in Groningen. We find each other there, but we cannot influence gas use and policies in other countries. The Minister talks about this, but we are not talking about how they deal with gas, for example. What we can do is have a clear plan here about how we deal with our gas extraction in Groningen. I'll talk about that later. The Minister made a very clear statement on this matter. I suggest that we focus on that, because that is what we are dealing with ourselves. Let's focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u57	Thank you for this answer, but of course we are talking about what kind of contracts we conclude with abroad and how we get off the Groningen gas together with them. In Germany, this gas is used to generate electricity, among other things. Now there is more than enough electricity on the Western European market. Is the VVD therefore willing to look together with GroenLinks to see how we can bring back the use of Groningen gas as soon as possible, our good precious gas that these Groningers suffer from? At least we should not use that gas to generate electricity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u58	Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the Minister stated in his reply that he is talking to several countries around us using Groningen gas. So I think we should leave it there and find each other in how we can safely and reliably reduce gas extraction in Groningen. We will certainly be talking about this in a moment, because I will come back to this. Mr President, where was I? In Dutch and international policy: yes, there I was. The Dutch share of global CO emissions is only 0.42%, so we have to make agreements internationally if we really want to be effective and achieve real effects. The VVD therefore wants this minister to work to promote, at European level, the strengthening of European targets towards a 55% reduction in CO emissions by 2030. A question to the Minister: how did his conversation go during his first visit to Bonn? That was a while ago, and he was only just Minister on this file back then, if I'm right. He hadn't been working on it very long, but he went straight to work on it to see if we could find a majority there and allies for that 55% reduction. To him the question: can he share his first impressions of that with us here? I would also ask him to bear in mind, in his search for allies for 55% CO reduction, that the competitiveness of our economy and our business should not be negatively affected. The formulation of long-term goals, clear commitments for the future, plays a very important role in this. In doing so, the Minister must play an active role in the trade trips and agreements established from the Netherlands. I would ask the Minister to inform the Chamber shortly about the role and place on the international trade agenda of the ambitions we are discussing here today. Mr. Chairman. It is good to read in the coalition agreement that we are working on building expertise and investing in pilot projects. That'll keep us at the forefront. Both the government and the local authorities have a substantial budget for this. Rich money alone is a budget of almost EUR 4 billion. In addition, top-level policies and innovation policies are more focused on climate and energy issues. However, it is important to focus on bottlenecks and obstacles experienced by innovative companies. I would like to ask the Minister how he intends to ensure that businesses and entrepreneurs are able to switch quickly when they experience obstacles. I hope that they will be primarily thought along from what is possible rather than what is not possible. I'm considering a motion on this point. Good and smart climate policy offers opportunities not only for innovation and economic growth, but also for employment as a consequence and as a logical consequence. Statistics from the Central Bureau of Statistics in October 2015 show that employment in the energy supply sector has grown significantly. In recent years, there has been a clear nod: the number of jobs in the sustainable sector is rising significantly. In the conventional angle, the number even drops. At the request of the previous government, the Economic and Social Council shall examine the effects of the energy transition on the labour market. I would like to hear from the Minister when he expects the results. We are increasingly seeing a shortage of professionals, especially in green energy. The Industrial Coalition underlines this in a recent letter to the Permanent Chambers Committee for OCW by stating that important ambition agendas, such as the energy transition, will be put under serious pressure, including economic growth and development in our country. The industrial coalition says the urgency is high. The Minister asked whether he was prepared to come up with an overall plan with his colleague from SZW on how to attract new technical staff for green jobs, including the possibilities of retraining of people currently working in the conventional sector. So far, my wonders. I would like to dwell here on the gas extraction in Groningen and on the Groningers themselves. We have recently been there with the committee on work visits. The pain but also the strength of the people in their possession, their home, their lives affected by the damage caused by gas extraction, has personally touched me very much. From the misery that has happened to them, they spoke to us with a force that I found admirable. I would like to thank them again for their openness along this road. The Minister has recently announced a number of steps, such as the NAM going all the way. I would like to know from the Minister what this means in concrete terms. I also want to know what his plans are for the coming months. When can we expect more about the damage protocol, the role of the region, the implementation of the 50 million reserved in the coalition agreement and so on? I have a lot of questions about this, but I also know that the Minister is taking matters forward. So I would really like to know from him what the planning is that we can expect. How and when are we going to talk about this? In my opinion, Groningers only want clarity and certainty. I do not think that is too much to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u59	Thank you. We are now going to listen to two speakers from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Soon Mrs. Van Tongeren will speak to us for four minutes. We now have sixteen minutes, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Do you know the number 4.8? 4.8°C is the structural warming that the best climate models now predict before the end of the century. We're already at 1.1°C. Macron fears that we will lose the battle and fail to reach the Paris agreement. But it's definitely not too late. It is a good thing that the Netherlands wants to take the lead now, but it is important to take action. The Dutch economy and its accounting are doing well. Many citizens and businesses have made sacrifices in recent years to make today's booming economy possible. Especially the citizens with the narrowest scholarship have had to bear the pain. It is now crucial to make the right choices at this point. I would like to hear from both directors how they are going to engage with the energy transition and mobilise all citizens, businesses, knowledge institutions and civil society. Effective climate policy is not only necessary to keep the Netherlands viable; it will also determine our future income model and locational climate. GroenLinks appreciates the choice of the cabinet to appoint a Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. On the shoulders of Minister Wiebes is a very difficult task, worthy of an Atlas. First of all, there is the explosive gas file and the handling of the quake damage in Groningen. My colleague, Mr Van Tongeren, will speak about this separately. The challenges of climate change and the energy transition are even greater if possible. Global greenhouse gas emissions rose again last year and extreme weather phenomena cause greater damage every year. Does the Minister share the opinion of GroenLinks that the energy and climate ambition is the biggest transition that the Netherlands has ever had to go through in a short time? I would also like to hear from him how he intends to fulfil the ambition expressed by the Prime Minister during the government statement, namely that the whole world is going to look at the Netherlands for climate solutions, as she is already looking at our water and food solutions. Surely it would be unforgivable if the Prime Minister of a country with only 6% of renewable energy had put on too big a pair of pants? The CO reduction targets are also ambitious: 49% by 2030 and the aim to bring this to 55% through European negotiations. Goals close to what GroenLinks has been advocating for some time, including in the climate law. That is why we are also positive about the cabinet's outstretched hand in seeking broad support for a common law. It is a good thing that we are discussing this, because a challenge that runs over decades and still obliges many Cabinets to act deserves to have a broad majority supported by Parliament. The euphoria about concluding the coalition agreement after the longest negotiations ever, I can explain. But the breast-knocking about "the greenest cabinet ever" has fallen badly on us and was also directly lied to by the planning agency for the environment. Those who have already given themselves a 10 publicly will be very disappointed when the master says: you will certainly get a 2.5 and perhaps a 5, but you will have to make a deal with your neighbouring countries. Because the other half of the necessary answers were simply not filled in by the coalition. Last week, the First Chamber supported the motion of my colleague from GroenLinks Tineke Strik, stating that the Cabinet should present a complete package of measures in the short term. I ask the Minister how and when he will deliver that. Minister Wiebes has built the reputation of being a problem solver with a flexible mind. We can already see that for him the terms of the coalition agreement are not being used in marble. That gives hope, because otherwise the energy agreement 2.0 and the reduction target will never be achieved. I do have one warning for the Minister. As an engineer who thinks as an economist, he should not go blind on his motto "maximum effectiveness per euro," because he runs two major risks. The first is that a fixation on cost-effectiveness will lead to choices by 2030 that undermine the achievement of the Paris goal by 2050. The second is that he should not forget to take all Dutch in that gigantic transition. The Netherlands is going to change its energy generation, its industry, its mobility, its agriculture, its offices and homes. This is as much a cultural change as the rational cost-benefit analysis. Then it is crucial that the polluter really pays, and that lusts and burdens are distributed fairly. Because those who treat people unfairly mostly call for resistance. In addition to maximum effectiveness per euro, you must also opt for maximum justice per measure. Would you like to embrace that motto as well? In addition to our criticism that at best only half of the climate ambition with the proposed policy is feasible, we still have three serious blames. First of all...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u61	I was curious to see what GroenLinks means by "maximum justice per measure."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u62	I'm going to explain all that to you later. But I would like to say this now. Maximum justice per measure is that we actually apply the polluter pays principle, that we stop hugging fossil giants, for example, and that we take into account a fair distribution between those who pay the levy and those who benefit from measures. We had a discussion on the storage of renewable energy. The Minister has been kind enough to calculate my proposal for a ratio other than 50-50, for example 60% borne by energy and 40% by the citizen. That is good for the citizen and the baker. Only the great chemical giant is going to pay a little more, but really not so much that it will affect competitiveness. By "maximum justice per measure," I mean that we have an eye for a fair distribution of the lusts and burdens of this huge transition that we as a society must continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u63	Okay. In itself, that appeals to me, but if you were to turn your back on agriculture with all sorts of measures, that would not seem so fair to me. These are measures that I have also encountered in the GroenLinks programme. So I was wondering what exactly that meant, but you're explaining it differently now. Perhaps you have another addition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u64	I do not think I can explain it any differently, because I am now explaining for the first time what I mean by that. I also think you're not as good at reading when I hear what you're saying about our election programme. In no way does it say that GroenLinks wants to cut back on agriculture. GroenLinks acknowledges, however, that the size of the agricultural population in the Netherlands is a problem because of methane emissions, and I think that the CDA Group would do the right thing. You know that methane is a much stronger greenhouse gas than CO, so we have to do something about that. I hope with you that with this new climate minister we will be able to make a significant contribution to solving the climate problem in agriculture as well. So I said that I still have three other serious accusations. Firstly, the distribution of burdens and lusts in the transition is very unfair. Totally wrongly, the biggest polluters emerge from the dance. Citizens pay much more than companies and especially the people with the narrowest scholarship are literally in the cold. I call on the Minister to carry out three actions with colleagues from the cabinet. Would he like to examine with Minister Ollongren whether it is possible to compensate tenants who are still in a house with an energy label F or G in the coming years? Housing corporations expect this to cover 5% of their stock until 2021. Would the Minister like to see if this is technically possible? Above all, I am asking for feasibility and possible effects. Would the Minister like to examine with Mr Snel whether it is effective for people with middle incomes in cheaper properties to recover the transfer tax one year after purchase if they have improved the housing on energy performance in that year? Many expect this group of owners to get in trouble. This can be paid by increasing the transfer tax for more expensive homes. And will the Minister follow the advice of the Council of State with Ministers Koolmees and Hoekstra to "improve how and where the costs of climate policy are going to fall towards 2030" and come up with a plan of action before 1 May? Maximum justice per measure also means that promise makes guilt. Many organisations and companies are calling for this. The Minister must deliver on the promises made by his predecessor and fully maintain the netting arrangement for solar panels until 2023. Does he now prevent jojo policy and applies to him "a man a man, a word a word"? The second reproach is this. The excessive use of CO capture and storage will cause disruption and unduly put a brake on the necessary growth of the share of renewable energy. One of the minister's previous employers, McKinsey, calculated that 3 to 6 megatons of storage is feasible for the Netherlands. Does he share that opinion? We strongly oppose subsidies for storage from the renewable energy incentive scheme. The Minister suggested two weeks ago that he might want to deal with this separately. Is that final now? And when is that proposal coming to the Chamber? Furthermore, does he not think that achieving the 49% reduction will require at least a doubling of SDE resources, also in order to invest in the development of hydrogen for industry, algae for green gas, and sustainable alternatives to replacing gas as a raw material in chemistry? Are these options also on your work table and later in the negotiations on the new energy agreement? A third reproach is that there is no proper balance in handling the root and the stick. CO emissions must be taxed more heavily, preferably with other countries together, but otherwise nationally. This makes both sustainable innovations more cost-effective and the necessary behavioural and cultural changes easier. Abandoning higher CO prices outside the electricity sector is the biggest failure of this coalition. The crocodile tears of the old fossil industry are constantly giving in. This industry is hammering at a global CO price, on a well-functioning emissions trading system. Of course that would be best, but that is like waiting for world peace: everyone wants it, but it is not very realistic. GroenLinks is the party of hope for the future, as you know, but at the point of a global CO price, the industry is simply too dreamy. Meanwhile, we support the fossil industry directly or indirectly with an estimated 7.6 billion euros per year. When does this tax hugging of fossil giants stop? Will the Minister also come forward with a concrete phase-out plan? Will the Minister be talking to neighbouring countries to argue for an additional CO levy in both energy production and industry? Is he still seeing new opportunities for tightening up the European emissions trading system in the short term? The risks to the competitiveness of companies are being screened too often. But if you really don't want to conduct a price policy, you can at least opt for tougher standards. National energy exploration shows that the goal of 100 petajoule energy savings is far from being achieved. Many companies are also lagging behind with energy saving testing. Why does the Minister not simply make this legally mandatory and, in accordance with my amendment, will he ensure that the budget for maintaining energy savings remains intact? Three of the five objectives of the current energy agreement are not met. In addition to the slow energy saving, green jobs are not growing hard enough and the share of renewables is developing too slowly. What's this cabinet gonna do about it? Anyone who fails to reach an energy agreement 1.0 puts a very heavy mortgage on energy agreement 2.0. The 25% CO reduction in the Urgenda statement is also not achieved, because there is still a gaping gap of 4 megatons of emissions reduction that we need to bridge. GroenLinks has a solution. I call on the Minister not to lose a second, to pick up the phone tomorrow and sit down at the table with Nuon about closing the Hemweg plant as soon as possible. With that, he hits four birds with one stone. He achieves the Urgenda goal, improves the bad air quality around Amsterdam and achieves maximum justice per measure and maximum effectiveness per euro. Because the amount that Nuon mentioned, EUR 55 million, can certainly be reduced if there is a sharp negotiation. The other coal plants must also close by 2030. When is the Minister going to come up with a bill to ban coal-fired power production? That's not gonna be lifted over this reign, is it? A fast energy transition requires enormous investment by citizens, businesses and politics. There is more capital available than Rutte III suggests. The pension funds alone invest a capital of 1,200 billion outside the Netherlands. GroenLinks wants a substantial part of that capital to be made available, for example, to generate renewable energy, electrify mobility and make homes, offices and factories energy neutral. Is this Minister prepared to encourage pension funds and other financial parties to increase their sustainable investment in the Netherlands in a separate agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u65	I'd like to go back to the coal section and the Hemweg plant. Today, we received a letter from Minister Wiebes in which he announced that he would come forward with a proposal in 2018 with a ban on coal in energy production. So we're being served together to shut down that coal power plant as soon as possible. Mr Van der Lee spoke a few times about hugging the fossil industry. I'm gonna fall off my chair if I read your amendment. You want to free up 55 million euros of taxpayers' money to close that plant. So you're going to give 55 million to a coal power plant. I think that is much worse than the hugging you just accused the CDA Group of. And what is even worse is that the Green Left Group wants to cover 55 million from the Municipal Fund. Even the GroenLinkswethouder of Utrecht just tweeted that she was flabbergasted because of that proposal, because that 55 million is desperately needed to make living at local level sustainable and to ensure clean energy. My question to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is whether this amendment of hers is actually for the stage. Let us please instruct this minister to ban coal as soon as possible and let us not hand out gifts to the fossil industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u66	The fiscal hugging of fossil giants happens with billions at a time. When we talk about cost-effectiveness: if you can save several million tonnes of CO for only 55 million, which are to a large extent intended to ensure that the employees in that company still have a future in a social way, we think that is a very cost-effective measure. It also helps solve a very different urgent problem. The air quality in our capital city is very bad. There too, measures are being delayed for far too long. I also see that it is much better to tackle the other power stations through a legal ban. I'm very much in favour of that. But this plant is much older, so there is no biomass addition, and it can really close in the short term. This will achieve both the energy agreement and the Urgenda goal. That's worth that price to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u67	I think that GroenLinks and D66 find each other's plea to shut down all coal plants as soon as possible. And yes, the Hemwegcentrale is the power station that needs to close first and that can also be done quickly. The difference is in the way we're going to deal with that. I really don't want us handing out presents to the energy sector. We must ensure that we force this sector to green up with strict standards. I would like to challenge Mr Van der Lee to join us on that side. Let us not put millions of taxpayers' money into shutting down coal power stations. Let us give the Minister a strong mandate so that he can negotiate and get it done at the lowest possible price. Then we'll invest that 55 million in the real energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u68	Yeah, but that's gonna take years, and we just don't have that time anymore. We really need to move fast now. The sooner we close this coal plant, the sooner we can switch to renewable alternatives. The closure of these other plants should also take place well before 2030. I fully agree with you on that. But it's two for twelve. This warming is just going on very fast and we don't have that time anymore, so I say close the Hemweg as quickly as possible. I would also like to know how the Minister will take on his coordinating role in climate change. How will he look and send when it comes to meeting climate objectives such as agriculture, mobility and the built environment? Does he not think that there is a imbalance between the CO targets for energy and industry compared to those for other sectors? Shouldn't they be running much faster? Can the VNG, the IPO and the waterboards get a response to their offer? What is he going to give them, for example, from the climate envelope of 300 million? I also see that VNO-NCW has launched the attack on more innovation grants for KNMI and RIVM. The two rulers aren't gonna go along with that, are they? How are they going to ensure that innovation funding benefits SMEs in particular? My final appeal to the Minister is to take an initiative that fits the level of ambition of this cabinet. Would you like to make an effort to ensure that the global climate summit in the Netherlands is held in 2020? Do you want to participate actively and financially in Nijmegen, which will be declared European Green Capital for the coming year? This is an enormous honour for the city and the whole of the Netherlands and a wonderful platform for this cabinet to carry out its climate ambitions. In addition to the energy transition, this department is responsible for another major transition, the digital. This is what the Secretary of State is about, who I think still feels like Alice in digital wonderland. Digitisation is a blessing and a curse. It has brought us a huge amount of productivity growth. It has become increasingly the infrastructure behind all infrastructures. It can also help us to stay within environmental limits. Smart digital applications can save up to 73 million tonnes of CO in the Netherlands. With what plan will this Secretary of State support her colleague Wiebes to exploit this sustainable potential of digitisation? However, there is also a downside, a curse. Digitisation contributes to growing inequality and threatens our privacy and our security. Cyber attacks pose an increasing threat to the reliability, accessibility and security of supply of our infrastructure. Precisely because digitisation is such a broad and disruptive transition, I do not understand why the government agreement lacks the ambition to develop an integrated digital agenda for the Netherlands as a government. Why this wait-and-see attitude, as if digitalisation should only be brought and thought-out by citizens and businesses? Can the Secretary of State indicate what its plans are to introduce a strong coordination mechanism, which, on the basis of an integrated digital agenda, works to ensure all the optimal opportunities that digitalisation offers, but also public values and vital interests? Is it not also right to set up a digital sub-committee of the Council of Ministers, to establish clear political coordination, so that, for example, the problem of Burum satellite ground station, for roll-out of 5G, is resolved quickly? And do you agree with the sector that a digital summit, chaired by the Prime Minister, should take place soon in order to draw up a national digital agenda? Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. Our living world, our well-being and our earning capacity stand or fall with the success of both the energy transition and the digital transition. Both rulers have a tremendous amount of work to do. I'd say get to work! And remember that successful realizations of these transitions are also much more important for the locational environment than removing the dividend tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u69	Thank you. The last speaker for the dinner break is Mrs Van Tongeren. A little appetite-provoking, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u70	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. The Minister admitted in Groningen government failure to pay tribute to this and made three promises: that the NAM has nothing more to say in the settlement of damages, that the NAM has nothing more to say in the strengthening of the buildings and that the NAM has nothing more to say about the level of gas extraction. It's a beautifully firm approach. When did this minister arrange that? Then the gas extraction. I was just talking about it. It has become a top year for the export of Groningen gas. There is an oversupply on the market, we read in the letters and the annexes, of the Groningen gas quality. As GroenLinks, we want, and we hope that the VVD and the other parties will support us, to stop generating electricity with Groningen gas. When will the conversion of power stations in the Netherlands and Germany take place? Or are we just gonna wake up with Groningen's gas and shut down those power stations? After all, there is sufficient supply of electricity on the Western European market. When does SMEs stop heating empty buildings with Groningen gas? This costs SMEs 300 million and they heat empty buildings. When are we going to stop giving a lockoff to households who want to get rid of their own Groningen gas connection? Two years ago, that was often zero euros. This now amounts to €600 per gas connection. Next question to the Minister. If there's a power outage, we have an emergency plan: what do we close first? What if there's a gas thing like that? I haven't been able to find the contingency plan. I hope it's there. You see what happens in Austria, for example, with an explosion. And Italy must declare a state of emergency in order to identify companies that are the first to leave the gas. Then the damage recovery, a recurring theme. The NAM is phasing out its own capital in the company. That's under 200 million now. Is there enough guarantee that for now, but also for the future, we in Limburg know that this damages can continue to run for another 20, 30, 40 years. Will this Minister finally release the two tonnes of the Van Tongeren amendment that was adopted in last year's budget, so that Groningers can make use of that right? What does the Minister think of the profits of the Safe Living Centre? He writes neatly that it's legal, but what do we think morally that a company makes 2.4 million dollars off handling claims from the Groningen people? Are the arbitrators just gonna keep doing their sensible work? The coalition agreement says no new land permits. But isn't that an empty shell? Are there any pieces where gas might be in the Netherlands, for which there is not already a 1963 permit? Then about the reinforcements. What standards are we going to apply there, those from 2015 or 2017, the standards for the dikes or the standards for the highways? The standards for industry in the Eem area are again different, and for high-rise construction too. Can the Minister clarify the forest by setting standards so that Groningen knows what is going on? The same question applies to the legal framework. We have the Crisis and Recovery Act. A special Alderswet is still in preparation at your ministry. That is what we are looking forward to. There are rumors about a Groningen law. There's the Centrum Safe Living Handbook. We have the opinion of Witteveen+Bos or the proposal of GroenLinks, namely: will we simply apply the current Dutch law? So no more special deals with the university or the hospital, no more high-ranking government official signing contracts with the NAM under private law and no more damages contracts with confidential clauses. Just accept that the province, the waterboards and the municipalities are the only ones with a secondary democratic mandate. Shall we take the Groninger population seriously this year and really take steps? This minister is positioned to decide if he's going to make a difference for Groningen. Or he could, what the VVD did, keep tabs and wet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u71	Thank you. I'm suspending until 7:30. Then we'll have some time to have dinner. When we get back, we're gonna listen to the CDA's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u72	We're back together and we're moving on. We're gonna listen to the CDA's contributions. Soon Mr Amhaouch will come, but first Mrs Agnes Mulder. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u73	Mr President, thank you. This cabinet will have to show that the security of our Groninger residents is central.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u74	If everyone would just listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u75	The statement by this minister recently in Groningen that the NAM should get out of the way has shown that he is serious. Now he will have to turn that into concrete actions. The government will have to further reduce the demand for natural gas, as stated in the government agreement. The Minister must work swiftly on the damage protocol and the strengthening of housing and business premises in Groningen. What conditions does the Minister provide for the damage protocol? Have the Groninger Soil Movement and the Groninger Gas Council been sufficiently heard in his eyes? In the discussions during the working visit of the Permanent Committee for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to Groningen we heard that the region would be out. Can the Minister confirm this and follow the proposal of the region? To what extent are the inhabitants above the storage area of Norg included? Are they covered by the Groningen Damage Protocol? Mr. Chairman. In fact, it is incomprehensible that the treatment of damage cases stopped at the end of March this year until a new protocol is in place. How is the Minister going to help these people, who have been on hold for three-quarters of a year? That's very harsh, especially when you read in the media that the Center for Safe Living has made a profit. Well, I really can't explain that in the region. This is incomprehensible. Does the Minister agree with us? In the news came that many houses will have to be demolished. For the CDA it is important that residents themselves influence what happens to their homes. They did not ask for the extraction of gas and the related earthquakes. How will the Minister regulate this in the reinforcement programme, which should be implemented independently of the NAM? And does the Minister also look at sustainability? Groningen deserves to have a perspective in this area, as is also stated in the coalition agreement. As coalition parties, we have made EUR 50 million annually available for this purpose. I'd like a response from the Minister. The difference is just too big. In the district of Opwierde-Zuid in Appingedam some residents get a brand new home. This is also necessary from a security point of view, but others receive book support from the same reinforcement call. Don't we have to at least make these houses natural gas-free? Mr. Chairman. Is there a need for a Groningen law on the issues of spatial planning, which also emerged during that work visit? How does the Minister view that? When is the Minister coming up with a buy-back and guarantee scheme in the region? Mr. Chairman. The way the Groningers are handled now has an effect on the gas extraction from the small fields. With the previous minister, the CDA agreed on a representative zero size for the homes above new fields or fields where major changes are taking place. According to the Minister, what are the experiences of our residents in Oppenhuizen, for example, with these representative zero measurements? We hear it doesn't work and want to have a full zero measurement. If such an ex post measurement is not necessary, it will be profitable for everyone. But if they are needed, it will benefit all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u76	Mrs Mulder is right to say good things about safety and what needs to be done in Groningen. That's fine, but she started saying that safety is the highest good. I agree with her. I was wondering whether this only applies to the situation in Groningen or, for example, to airspace over the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u77	If planes intersect in the airspace so freaky that they can touch each other, it's not safe. I think it's clear to everyone that planes should be able to fly safely, because otherwise no one will get on a plane, not even Mr. Van Raan, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u78	Those are good words. That's what I was hoping for. This means that it endorses the conclusions of the aviation safety report and that it says that there should be no increase in aviation, in flight movements, before there has been a thorough review of airspace. I'm glad the CDA agrees with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u79	I agree with safety, of course, but I believe that aviation is part of Infrastructure and Water State, and that is where the discussion belongs. All my colleagues who feel that way are not here tonight. I like to get involved in other policy areas, but it seems to me that the discussion should be conducted where it should be. Then we do justice to that discussion. That's my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u80	Well, fine, then you just keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u81	Mr. Chairman. The CDA embraces the ruling of the Council of State, which says that the justification of the extraction plan for Groningen should be improved. That is what our group thought last year. We have already had questions about the five-year period and the development of risk-based extraction, taking into account the risks posed by extraction per well. With what mission has the improvement of the extraction plan now been returned to the NAM? The last few weeks it was colder and therefore most likely more gas has been extracted. This has been noticed by residents almost immediately by the increased number of earthquakes in recent weeks. To what extent does this have an impact on the further process of making the new extraction plan? How are provinces, municipalities and the House of Representatives involved? Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants progress to be made to reduce the use of Groninger gas in the Netherlands. As the coalition agreement states, the industry and the energy sector will have to get rid of the Groningen gas. What is the Minister's time schedule for discussing this? In addition, we will have to use less gas in the built environment. A number of reports show that hybrid CV systems and hybrid heat pumps are suitable for this purpose. Is the Minister prepared to see whether the offer of CVs can be reduced in the short term to hybrid or electrical systems, so that we can make the transition with each other gradually, but also quickly for the inhabitants of Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u82	Those are beautiful words. I can only agree with that. But we have also heard of the SodM, the state surveillance that monitors the gas extraction, that the gas extraction during this period, within five years, can return to 13 billion cubic metres a year if you build such a nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek. Now this Minister has said that he is going to postpone that decision again. I have heard you speak fine words about reducing gas extraction in Groningen. Would you like to call the Minister on that, too? It is, of course, bizarre that people are going back into a cold winter, back into insecurity, or still in insecurity. Do you agree with me that the nitrogen factory should be there now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u83	I think that the Minister will undoubtedly go further into the nitrogen plant, precisely to see how you can allow the further phasing-out to take place. We supported a motion by the SP in that respect. Let the Minister tell us how he sees it with the nitrogen plant. The CDA has indicated years ago that this is a good option. We've moved on a few years now. I wonder whether there are any other measures to be taken to allow a further phasing-out to take place. I am in favour of this tonight, and I hope that the Minister will be able to answer that question from the CDA Group, from all the groups in this Chamber. 'Cause I think everyone wants to take the winnings further down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u84	It is, of course, very painful that we have been advocating this for years and that the government, now that it also supports it, has postponed that decision. I think it is very nice that you say that we should look at how we can get rid of this, for example for households. I wholeheartedly support that plan. In the 1960s, when we switched to gas, people could exchange their equipment for free and get a very big discount if they wanted more. Is that part of your plan? Or do the households pay for these costs? Or have you no idea yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u85	We think it is important that, if you already know that these other forms of CVs are on the market, those that are badly needed to shape that whole transition, you should then make it attractive for people to switch to them. Nothing's free, unfortunately. Maybe in the SP, but in my world, there's no such thing. But you can stimulate it. For example, we have also stimulated double glazing. We've stimulated isolation. I think we will eventually need all these measures, not only for the Groningen people but also for the rest of our country, to ensure that we can finally achieve the objectives of the Paris Convention. It therefore serves two objectives: to better take care of our Groningers and ultimately also to reduce CO emissions. We shall therefore be monitoring this very closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u86	Mr Agnes Mulder's speech was very heartfelt to me. During the whole previous period we have often been raised together when it comes to Groningen. Mrs Agnes Mulder says that we need to reduce gas use in the Netherlands. In my term, I also said that, among other things, Groningen's gas exports to Germany have increased because they are generating electricity. They only do that because it's a little cheaper to generate it in that way than in any other way. Would the CDA like to work with GroenLinks to see if Groningen gas is no longer being used for electricity, electricity? Let's really use the 150 million to stop it in the Netherlands. But we also have to say to Germany: if you have to cook the potatoes or heat the old people's homes, we understand that it takes a while before there is a cut-off. But you can't explain to people in Groningen that power is being generated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u87	I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer to this question from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, precisely because in the past we have talked about the following: look closely at what you are using it for. We need a realistic phasing-out plan. That's what the minister has to discuss with our foreign clients. He will, of course, do so simply through the parties that are in favour of it, but I do think that the Minister should be encouraged by us to do so as much as possible. If this is an option to bring it back further, then the minister of good has to come to say that he does not and that he does not want to work with it. So, honestly, I think he might want to. And that's what I'd be there for. I would like to add that the CDA does not want to get rid of the gas completely. 'Cause we could use green gas. If, for example, we can put some more windmills into the sea above Groningen on new lots, which will also create jobs for Groningen, I am not opposed to using hydrogen as a technology. But you might need gas for that, too. So I am not entirely against gas, but the extraction of natural gas from the Groningen field needs to be reduced further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u88	My speech was about Groningen gas and this is also about the export of Groningen gas. Mrs Agnes Mulder talks about a phasing-out plan, but in 2017 we exported more Groningen gas than in 2016 and in 2016 we already exported more Groningen gas than in 2015. So we're not working on a phasing-out plan, we've obviously been busy, I didn't know this, I only recently discovered this with an increase in exports to Germany. If you then look at what that is necessary, it turns out that this is used in Germany to generate electricity. That only happens because there is now an oversupply of Groningen gas and it is advantageous to use it to generate electricity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u89	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u90	My question is: will the CDA support GroenLinks by saying that we should stop doing so in the short term? There's no hard security of supply under it, it's not mandatory because of all kinds of contracts. You can't explain with dry eyes in Groningen that they're in the misery of the earthquakes because we're earning a few euros from getting Germany to generate electricity with Groningen gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u91	The answer may be shorter than the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u92	I think that these are very legitimate questions from the Green Left Group. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer on this. If this is indeed not necessary for the security of supply... Of course we have always talked about this with each other. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer on this point. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with my speech. The CDA wants progress to be made with less use of Groningen gas in the Netherlands. I have just indicated that we will have to switch to industry. We will also have to work with our own boilers. We'll have to say goodbye to that slowly. This will also ensure that the Netherlands implements the Paris climate agreement. We have agreed ambitious goals with each other and it will require a great deal of effort and resources from residents, businesses and governments to achieve this. The Minister can count on the CDA if, I say, we take our residents in a very good way. The CDA wants residents to have a role in the new energy agreement to be developed, that households and SMEs are supported in making their homes more sustainable and that they can participate in deciding and taking part in renewable energy projects. Because they pay a large part of the bill. How is the Minister going to shape that? The commitment made by the Minister, namely to bring about a modernisation of the netting regime by the summer of 2018, is really essential in this respect. It is good that the Minister also includes small SMEs in this proposal. Thank you for your commitment. Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement, on the initiative of the CDA, it was expressly agreed that there would be a separate scheme for energy cooperatives that would make it easier for residents to participate in renewable energy projects in their immediate surroundings. I know that the Christian Union is also in favour of this. Mr. Chairman. The postcode rose scheme remains very complex. It is easy if we include a separate scheme in the SDE+, as well as for wind energy at sea and biodigesters. This will benefit the strengthening and sustainability of our society. This agreement was also made specifically because of the problems we have with windmills on land. Our negotiators also specifically thought of my province of Drenthe and Groningen. The CDA has argued more often that the environment should benefit from renewable energy projects. Of course, there are a lot of good examples of this, let us be clear. But it can and it really needs to be better. To what extent can the code of conduct for land-based wind energy become mandatory, so that developers always have to take advantage of the environment? How will the Minister implement this? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the start of energy cooperatives is often difficult. They don't have buffers from previous projects like project developers who often do. With a revolving development fund they would have been greatly helped. That's what conversations are about. In July the Chamber received another letter from the Minister for Finance. Is the Minister prepared to work on this with him? Mr. Chairman. We have another adopted motion asking the Minister to consider how residents can participate in tenders for new wind farms at sea. How will the Minister implement this? Mr. Chairman. A great way to make education and sustainability work together is solar panels in schools. This is a plan of the Schooldak Revolution Foundation, a wonderful initiative that can contribute to the climate objective of Paris and inspire young people, just like our teachers. With a loan of 10 million or a guarantee, the initiators can get far. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the initiators to see what possibilities there are? Mr. Chairman. The CDA would like to see room for more sustainable and innovative public procurement. He's a very popular launcher. In doing so, the CDA invites the Minister and the State Secretary to look at procurement in a broad sense and specifically to make procurement more accessible to SMEs and focus on the energy transition. Because we, as a government, can still use our purchasing volumes of EUR 60 billion to accelerate the energy transition and transition to a circular economy and give innovations a chance? The question then is whether there is sufficient knowledge available to our people in all those places where tenders take place. To what extent can the SBIR scheme and PIANoo help? And is the Minister willing to look, together with colleagues responsible for the circular economy and the state real estate, at the possibilities of making their own real estate more sustainable? Finally, Invest-NL. We can imagine that Invest-NL is primarily committed to the energy transition and that this will help investment to reduce CO. We are thinking of investments in energy infrastructure, such as heat networks or CO storage pipes in large ports. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna round off with a heart cry from my side. Our taxpayers invest by the government in innovation and combating CO emissions. So let's use this money sustainably and therefore revolverfully, and where that can't work, where the market isn't ready yet, with guarantees or co-investments like EBN or the FMO. For the CDA, EBN could also play a role in geothermal energy. We'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u93	Then there is Mr Amhaouch, also from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group cannot stress it enough: small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, are the driving force behind the Dutch economy. Over 7 out of 10 business jobs come from these SMEs. SMEs account for more than 60% of added value. For example, many MBOs find a future in SMEs, and SMEs are strongly represented in the region. Of the 440,000 SMEs in the Netherlands, for example, some 73,000 are located in the province of Overijssel. I would like to mention this example in order to bring it closer to home as well. SMEs, including many family businesses, are also the cement of local society. Look up and around the sports fields. The CDA Group therefore welcomes the fact that SMEs have been written with capital letters in the government agreement. This will provide an SME test. Is the Secretary of State prepared to place emphasis on the feasibility of legislation and regulation in practice in the implementation of that SME test? Will the test at least be applied at the start of new laws and regulations, and will each ministry apply the SME test in a similar way? How does the Secretary of State look at focusing on reducing regulatory pressure? Could a top five of line printing themes, so you focus on a number of important themes, be what? Another bottleneck for SMEs is the late payment of accounts by governments and companies. The percentages of accounts paid by the Empire, provinces and municipalities within the 30-day legal period are approximately 95%, 89% and 43% respectively for municipalities. It is therefore important that the government agreement states that the government will always pay accounts of SMEs within the 30-day legal standard, and that it will encourage companies and other semi-governments to do the same. What instruments does the Secretary of State intend to use to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u95	There is a question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u96	I hear wonderful stories about SMEs from the CDA spokesmanship. It's SMEs here and SMEs there. You say that SMEs are in the coalition agreement with big letters! But the big companies receive 1.4 billion dividends tax, not SMEs. If you really thought SMEs were so important, you would have given this EUR 1.4 billion not to the rich, large companies, but to the companies you were talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u97	The CDA attaches great importance to business in the Netherlands in general. We know that large companies are the driving force behind innovation, but also SMEs. On the other hand, SMEs are also the carrier of large companies. We must therefore continue to do something for the international large business, but the CDA is also fully committed to SMEs. It's not whether it's one or the other; it's and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u98	1.4 billion for Shell, Unilever, AkzoNobel and perhaps another secret. It's like a coalition of Shell, AkzoNobel and Unilever. Surely it cannot be, Mr Amhaouch, that you are making a plea here and not yet asking for a euro for SMEs? And that while the big companies, which have billions, are giving billions of bonuses and driving fat cars around with drivers, just get the EUR 1.4 billion of entrepreneurs who have cut back in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u99	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u100	Are you still behind big business?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u101	The new government agreement allocates billions to innovation and SMEs. Mr Öztürk makes a caricature of large companies such as Philips, Shell, ASML and VDL, which provide thousands of jobs for the ordinary man, who simply goes to work by bicycle and a breadbox and does very important work there. I do not think we should fall into caricatures and polarise about large companies and small and medium-sized enterprises. I think we need them both very much for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u102	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u103	Another bottleneck for SMEs...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u104	One second, Mr Öztürk is doing a second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u105	Mr Amhaouch tries to tell society about ASML, Philips and so on. They don't get a dividend tax refund. Be honest about that. So don't try to fool people through VDL, ASML and Philips, which a lot of people are proud of. Shell, AkzoNobel and Unilever are the billions of companies that fly billions of planes around the world, with your money, with the money of the entrepreneurs. Those entrepreneurs have been making considerable cuts in recent years. They've been taken from them. That goes to the big companies. You simply participate in this and then you try to fool people through VDL and your former employer ASML.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u106	I didn't hear the question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u107	The question is clear: are you still trying to fool people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u108	The big companies we have in the Netherlands, I don't care whether they're the Shells or the VDLs, we all need them. You cannot deny that they have added value in this country and that they guarantee the manufacturing industry in this country. If you want to make a caricature of that, that's your choice. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. Another bottleneck for SMEs continues to be finding adequate funding. Is the Secretary of State prepared to continue to support the initiative of the Association for Cooperative Credit Unions (VSK) until such time as that initiative can stand on its own feet? Strong credit unions can be counter-productive against a wrong form of crowdfunding practices. The CDA likes to get an overview of where Invest-NL is going to create added value in comparison with the current situation, including for SMEs, and of how implementation ensures that there is not a freak. I come to innovation. Applying innovative knowledge, such as 3D printing and robotisation, remains a key issue for SMEs' leaders. The CDA would like to see this spread to the broad SME sector, called the "SME platoon" in order to ensure growth of SMEs, increase labour productivity and address societal issues. Is the Cabinet prepared to take full advantage of the extension of the Mkb-Innovation Promotion scheme announced in the coalition agreement, namely the broad dissemination of knowledge to SMEs by applied knowledge organisations? This would be in line with an initiative such as Knowledge Deals between SMEs such as the Metal Unione, SMEs Netherlands and TNO. In our view, these are good examples. Mr. Chairman. Is the Cabinet also prepared to speed up the dissemination of knowledge towards SMEs in the application of a digital scan, following what happened to the energy scan? This could be done, for example, by stimulating the digitisation scan as a cabinet and, if necessary, using a limited part of the innovation budget for this purpose. Here, too, we can help SMEs increase their productivity or make cybersecurity more transparent, after which the companies themselves can work with it. I come to the additional resources in the government agreement for applied research. Is the Minister prepared to put these funds in the hands of SMEs in particular and to use the resources for research infrastructures in particular for applied research? How will the Minister ensure sound funding of the various research institutes, such as TNO, MARIN et cetera, etc.? In the area of the Wbso we have received many signals from special entrepreneurs. We understand that the Minister intends to reduce the tariffs to compensate for the overrun in 2016. Is there room for some or all of this to be compensated, even over the current year 2018? My colleague from the Christian Union has already appointed this. In the area of top sector policy, the CDA is curious to see how the minister looks at the national master plan for photonics. How are progress and intermediate results secured so that this can be used quickly to solve complex societal issues? We must maintain our unique position with this promising key technology. Mr. Chairman. How is the Minister going to ensure regional and sectoral pilot projects, legal experimental areas and rule-free zones in accordance with the government agreement? Many innovative initiators often feel trapped in a straitjacket. Then we come to a certain point that I think the PvdA has already raised during an interruption. It's about re-schooling, re-schooling and re-schooling. At present, certain workers are not getting a job, while at the same time an ING report shows that 120,000 vacancies in the technological industry will have to be filled in the next 12 years. We're asking the Minister who should be in the lead right now. Who should take on the coordinating role in order to draw up, in the current crisis situation, an overall plan for a labour market match and a substantial reduction in the deficit, in our view, together with fellow departments and the representatives of employers and workers? Encouraging re-schooling, re-schooling and sub-schooling is urgent and needs all the priority so that people have the security on a job, economic growth does not stagnate and our joint sustainability ambitions can be realised. How does the Minister look at a number of national pilots such as in Overijssel and in Limburg? Now that the Eindhoven region has the mainport status, there are also additional opportunities for employment and innovation. I think there's gonna be an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u109	Yeah, I feel the same way. I thought I'd let you finish your point. But then we're gonna listen to Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u110	I am pleased that Mr Amhaouch is paying attention to this point, because I believe that this is really the biggest inhibitor of economic growth and of energy transition. From the VVD fraction, this signal was also released. My question to Mr Amhaouch is whether he is really prepared to call on the Minister from the Chamber to work with his colleagues in OCW and Social Affairs to come up with a very good plan of action in the broad and specific direction of the energy agreement. In my opinion, the energy agreement will really need a very strong labour market paragraph, otherwise all the work that lies ahead...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u111	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u112	Does he share the view that otherwise all the work that lies ahead will not be possible and that economic growth will stagnate the energy transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u113	I can only agree with Mr Moorlag. My colleague Van der Molen also mentioned this at OCW. I will address it to EZ today and my colleague Heerma will address it to Social Affairs and Employment next week. There will have to be an overall plan that will have to resolve or at least reduce the crisis, the major and poignant deficits. You can certainly find us on that road. And the coalition agreement also provides a number of solutions. Look at that paragraph. Employers and employees must also be given a critical look at how we deal with training funds and, above all, intersectoral mobility. For example, over the last three years, 10,000 people from the banks have been thrown out of business. How can we retrain, retrain or retrain some of those people so that they can stand in front of the classroom, work in a company or do other business?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u114	Are you also prepared to go through the budget with a comb, perhaps not through this budget, but through subsequent budgets, to see if the means can be put together to really give a firm impetus to solve the labour market problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u115	I always use a little gel, honestly, and not the comb. However, I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer immediately how at least the three departments of Social Affairs, EZ and Education deal with this. How can we join hands? Who's gonna take the lead there? In any case, entrepreneurs give a daily signal that they are short. It's the businessmen's move. The government's up to it. And the workers' organisations are also on the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u116	Fine. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u117	Now that the Eindhoven region has the mainport status, there are also additional opportunities for employment and innovation in the southeast of the Netherlands. The Chamber was already very clear about it in 2016 and now it is also in the coalition agreement. The question is how the government will develop the brainport action plan together with the region. We would like to receive a timetable that fits the ambitions and needs of the region. The CDA supports the Minister's efforts to keep Siemens Hengelo open, in whatever form. Thank you for answering our written questions. Can the Minister give us a hint of the veil when quiet diplomacy can lead to certain results? I come to the protection of companies of vital importance. It is wise that the government agreement should include that the government can offer protection to companies in the vital sector with a national security interest through active approval or conditions. When has the study been completed on whether additional protection is needed for agricultural land and certain regional infrastructure works, such as the Westerschelde tunnel? It is also wise for listed companies to have more instruments themselves, such as a reflection period and prior registration of shareholdership with the AFM. This makes activist shareholdership more difficult through so-called locusts and hostile takeovers. When does the Cabinet come to the Chamber with proposals for legislation? For many entrepreneurs, Franchising fulfills a dream: a business of its own. The enthusiasm for some franchisees is declining rapidly because they do not find equivalence and transparency at the negotiating stage. Once they've signed the contract, they're very disappointed. When does the cabinet come up with legislation in accordance with the coalition agreement? It is also unfair for public authorities to carry out their own economic activities without allowing entrepreneurs to see whether they can do better. There is therefore a need for greater transparency. For example, the CDA thinks of a public digital register, where governments have to or can report in advance all planned decisions about purchasers. How does the Secretary of State view greater transparency and such a register? We must prevent governments from competing with business. In the area of fast internet, the CDA is curious to see what the Secretary of State will do to ensure that the Netherlands meets the European target of 100 Mbit/s for the whole of the Netherlands as soon as possible in 2025, including in the outskirts and border regions. Finally. It is good that the Secretary of State has taken first steps on the postal market to create a level playing field for working conditions and safety. We look forward to the results of the social dialogue on the future of the postal market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u118	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u119	It is a question of the procurement of certain services. The idea, which I believe is shared by a very large part of this Chamber, is that it is very good that security officers, caterers and cleaners are more employed by governments rather than always being "spoken out, outsourced." What exactly is the purpose of the CDA in making that type of procurement transparent and public?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u120	That's two-fold. If a decentralised government or the government intends to do work itself, for example the brushing, and it is not yet convinced that it is going to actually contract it.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the other hand, SMEs will have the opportunity to act on this, to come up with a counter-proposal. This transparency should lead to much more interaction between SMEs and public authorities, so that SMEs have a real chance and do not have to compete with public authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u121	Isn't that what you're talking about? Isn't that what you're talking about? Isn't that a huge bureaucracy? If the goal is, what the vast majority of the population and this Chamber want, that more people who actually belong to a municipality, a province or a ministry will actually be employed there, then we are not going to record it all in thick books? If we think it is important that more people are employed by ministries or municipalities, for example people in catering, security and cleaning, then we should just do so. Then we're not going to build up a whole book of bureaucracy because you're so committed to openness? Who's gonna get better, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u122	I may not understand Mr Hijink, but we do not want more people to be employed by that government. For example, we want a company to be able to clean under normal conditions. Surely it can't be that the government is going to compete with the business community in this? You agree with me, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u123	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u124	No? Then we'll disagree on that. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u125	The next speaker is Mr Hijink of the SP Group. Perhaps you can answer Mr Amhaouch's question right away, but you will of course be discussing your own text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u126	Mr. Chairman. In Hengelo many people are holding their breath these days. As a thunderbolt in the clear sky, Siemens' departure was announced a few weeks ago. The example of Siemens is indicative of this time, a time when employees have become a playball in the hands of international business, a time when the government first serves the interests of the shareholders and not the interests of the people. Last month we asked this Minister to work to keep the work at Siemens in Hengelo. What has the Minister done since then? He writes to the House of Representatives that he is in conversation with the head management or talks with the head management of Siemens. What is his commitment to this? When will these talks take place and will he also speak to German politics? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Everywhere in our country employees stand up for their rights, and that is also necessary when you see the ease with which this government puts the interests of multinationals above those of ordinary people. EUR 1.4 billion, EUR 1,400 million, will be wasted with the abolition of the dividend tax, without any indication that this would be good for employment and the economy in our country. What exactly are you doing? is my question to the Minister. Moreover, we cannot say that, following the commitment of 1.4 billion, the big companies have suddenly become more loyal and more serviceable to their people and to this country. Mr. Chairman. Everyone in this room is talking about how important technical education is and how important innovation is for our country. Then take a look at the role Siemens plays in Hengelo, a high-quality technology company with a huge impact on the region. It is an innovation magnet that attracts young people to go into technology, something that small and medium-sized enterprises are crying out for. It's been said here tonight. I've just been to Hengelo, and you're really gonna meet everybody there. The rock is on the other side of the road and the technical university around the corner. Young people are inspired by these kinds of companies, so it would be worth a lot if we had a minister who wants to run a little harder in words and deeds for these kinds of companies. If you want to preserve the work and strengthen innovation, as a government, you must dare to pursue industrial policy. Where is that vision, I would like to know from the Minister? Where is your vision of Dutch business? Does that go beyond a tax cut for foreign investors, or is that about it? Having a head office here is nice but never essential. Research work, production departments and training places: these are the places where the innovation really takes place and so we have to tie it to our country. A little less Zuidas and a little more technique in the region would be very good for this country. The Netherlands should not want to be a tax haven, but a country that is at the forefront in terms of education, technology and jobs, a country where something is really being created rather than a country where everyone is parking their profits in empty mailbox companies. How does the Minister view this? The SP believes that smart industrial policy calls for an activist government, which does not back down to act as critical industries at risk of disappearing. So you don't sit back and watch foreign companies buy up important Dutch industries. Can the Minister explain why the proposals in the coalition agreement, i.e. the proposals to prevent hostile takeovers, are a weakening of Minister Kamp's original plans? What happened to the one-year reflection period proposed earlier? What does this vague phrase mean that the period of reflection must not affect capital movements? And why should the legal reflection period not be combined with other protection structures? I'd like to hear why the Minister wants to weaken these rules. Minister Kamp showed that the interests of the shareholders are not blissful. Does this minister agree with me that there are more interests within a company than just those of the shareholders? Or is he known as a fierce defender of shareholder interests, even if it is bad for the rest of the community? This spring, this Chamber also supported a proposal for the introduction of a preventive test in the event of unwanted or hostile takeovers. That is a very good idea, because it will prevent the loss of work, innovation and activity. How's this test coming? When can we expect proposals? Mr. Chairman. Last week we discussed the future of the post with the Secretary of State. A large part of this Chamber still wants to maintain a system of imposed competition, at the expense of the people working in the post office. Wages are too low and the workload is far too high. Postal servicemen throughout the Netherlands have long waited for a decision from this government, and indeed from previous governments. For years, companies have had to employ 80% of their employees, and they have not done so for years. Some companies didn't stick to it and closed a fucking cao with a fake union, so they didn't have to stick to the 80% standard. The SP is very pleased that the Secretary of State will finally put an end to these dungeons on 1 January. That is a very good thing. A mailman earns more than a piece of wages. My predecessor, Sharon Gesthuizen, hasn't been hard on that for years. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that the letter post does not actually lend itself to tough competition at prices? How logical does she think that more and more delivery workers from different companies with fewer and fewer mail are walking down the same street? I can't get anyone to explain that to me. I wonder if the Secretary of State can do that. Mr. Chairman. In the mail and in companies like Akzo, Tata, Unilever and Siemens we see the same everywhere: the interest of the shareholder is all-important for the decisions that are taken. What we need is an active government that is going to restrict shareholder power, a government that prefers the interests of people and the environment over the interests of the people who see a company only as a profit machine, a government that dares to invest in innovation, who opts for employment and who stands up when such interests are at stake. We do not see that view in this government; we do not yet, perhaps we will. But a little less Zuidas and more work and innovation in the region we can really use. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister: is he prepared to start working on this now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u127	Thank you. Also from the SP: Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, climate, energy and tackling the disaster in Groningen should not be a political battle. We should solve this together: not chop-chop, but just settle it. Therefore, I would like to invite you to a meal, the meal that Jannie Knot has been eating for breakfast for over a year, for lunch, for dinner: peanut butter sandwiches, sometimes with jam. Jannie lives with her son with down syndrome in Garrelsweer. She had a good farm until it turned out that the building was broken by earthquakes and could collapse acutely. Within five days, she was ordered under penalty to remove all her animals. She hasn't had anything since that day. She's still fighting to get her money back, and this feast month there's peanut butter bread on the menu again. I would like to ask the Minister: what are you going to do... The minister's in the middle of a conversation. What are you going to do for Jannie and her son? What are you gonna do for all these Groninger Jannies? Groningen makes it very painfully clear that we need to get rid of fossil fuel and switch to safe energy for everyone, but gas extraction is still high. Two weeks ago it appeared that this year Groninger gas exports are already higher than last year, despite a motion in the Chamber to cut exports. What's the Minister gonna do about it? According to State surveillance on the Mines, we can already return this period to a gas extraction of 13 billion cubic metres if we only build a nitrogen plant in Zuidbroek. It is precisely this decision that Minister Wiebes was the first to postpone. Because of climate change, because of Groningen, we have to get rid of fossil energy, save and switch to safe and sustainable energy, but the way this government wants to deal with that is unfair and doesn't work. This is Cabinet Shell I, or perhaps yet another Shell Cabinet. The Netherlands supports the fossil industry at 7.6 billion a year. That's $15,000 a minute. Is the Minister going to cut this subsidy or even stop it? The Netherlands is a polluter-sparadis. Companies pay 1.8 billion less than they cause CO damage. 55% of the environmental damage caused is not taxed. The polluter does not pay, the polluter receives gifts. This year there will be an additional tax gift, due to the abolition of the dividend tax, for example to Shell. Peanut butter bread for Jannie, millions for the co-cause of her suffering, Shell. The same Shell made 3.5 billion euros in the third quarter of this year. Over the first nine months of this year, profits amounted to 9.8 billion: a large doubling compared to a year earlier. Shell gets presents, the households pay the bill. Families pay 2.8 billion for environmental damage that they do not cause and pay through the energy bill a storage sustainability that is 100 times higher than the rates for the biggest polluters. Households' energy bill will rise by €190 next year. And that account is going to rise in the years to come. Already 1 million Dutch people can no longer pay their energy bill. Unfair and ineffective. Unfortunately, the SP proposal for a lower energy bill did not make it. However, we do not give up and come up with new proposals. What will the Minister do about energy poverty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u129	I would like to know so much from the SP colleague, when it comes to extra energy taxes and higher energy bills, how could the SP in its own election programme have supported a substantial increase of €300 a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u130	We are in favour of a fair distribution of lusts and burdens. We would like the polluter to pay. Surely you, as a VVD, should appeal to this, let the polluter pay and spare the households? I would like to put forward further proposals on how we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u131	I would like to look forward to these proposals, but in your election programme you will not spare those households; you will add €300 to them. If you see what is now happening from Rutte II and Rutte III, then it turns out that everyone pays for this great energy transition, we have to be honest about that too, but that most people are making progress under the line. If we take that and put your program next to it, they will pay €300 every year in your program. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u132	No, that's not right. Maybe you can look it back; it's all searchable. Since the introduction of the storage of renewable energy, the tax we all pay to make it more sustainable, the SP has always advocated a fair distribution of the lusts and burdens. We can now see that it is very, very uneven. Just for people in a house where they can't choose to burn less, often a drafty rental house, the energy bill becomes sky high. This does not help the sustainability; these people cannot make themselves more sustainable. This way we put people at a cost when it does not improve sustainability. The SP doesn't want that. We want an effective climate policy. Unfortunately, we have not yet found you on our side. Mr President, I shall continue. We are facing a major revolution. We need to get rid of unsafe energy. This will not work if we allow households to pay for the crisis and avoid polluters. We want a fair energy transition. Earlier in my speech, I argued in favour of turning off the gas tap by rapidly reducing foreign exports. I also advocate reducing gas demand by making many houses more sustainable and removing gas as quickly as possible. I've got a brochure I'm holding up right now. This brochure got people on the bus in the 1960s. Then we quickly switched to natural gas. That was made extra attractive. People could get new devices free of charge or at a significantly reduced rate. Now, for many households, getting rid of natural gas is not at all attractive or even priceless or impossible. There's gotta be another way. What does the Minister want to do to make it more attractive? Because it is precisely the sustainability of social housing that is left behind. Precisely residents of these houses will be faced with a very high energy bill. And they often can't change that. The government only makes one tip, one warm sweater per household, free for the sustainability of these houses. This often leads to higher burdens for residents. Mr. Chairman. If we make social housing more sustainable very quickly, it can have six advantages. One: work and training. Two: innovation. Here we can gain knowledge that makes techniques better and cheaper. Three: a lower energy bill and lower residential charges for households. Four: a better house. Five: we can turn off the gas tap in Groningen. Six, we're releasing less CO. I would like a response from the Minister to a concrete proposal. Too often it is said that we cannot tackle major polluters like Shell because it would cost jobs, unfortunately not backed up by figures. We, the SP, believe that we should work on the energy transition: jobs for people with technical training. The Energy Agreement agreed that an average of at least 15,000 additional full-time jobs will be created in the period 2014 to 2020, but we are lagging behind on these agreements. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. We want a green and a social revolution. Energy must be safe, clean and affordable and people must regain control. The desires and burdens must be shared fairly. Polluters have to pay. I'd like to invite you to the dinner of Jannie and her son: peanut butter sandwiches.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u133	I don't like peanut butter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u134	Jannie probably doesn't either. That is why we need to solve this political problem now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u135	But the invitation is not for me, but for the rulers, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u136	I think you're welcome, too, but it would be good if we solved this problem so people wouldn't be stuck with dirty peanut butter anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u137	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Paternotte of D66. We still have one hour and five minutes to speak purely from the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u138	This is gonna hurt me anyway, "dirty peanut butter." That is one of those products from Calvé on which I want to have such a Dutch flag!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u139	And to which Mr. Rutte owes his career! I call Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u140	Mr President, who hasn't grown up with peanut butter? The wise nephew of Bas Paternotte certainly did. You wouldn't actually listen to the SP's argument, but we are now discussing the country's economic affairs budget with Europe's fastest growing economy and the world's second most innovative economy, 'the little engine that could'. In the coming years, this Minister and this State Secretary will therefore be heavy on lead and lead, because reaching the summit is a lot easier than staying at the top. Moreover, if the world economy is going well, then the Netherlands is on full swing, but there is a crash, then the Netherlands with its open economy also gets the hardest hit. The wealth of the Netherlands is therefore not self-evident. Our added value is not that we have the lowest wages, the cheapest houses or the most refined cuisine. We're smart, we're entrepreneurial and we're giving more and more people the best opportunities with education. So let me be modest as a Amsterdammer, because we are also very good at that. Brainport is the smartest region in the world, thanks to the Westland, the Netherlands is the largest exporter of tomatoes in the world, and that in a country where a tomato wouldn't last a day outside the greenhouse in the winter, and at Knowledge Park Twente, the world's most innovative medical devices are made, which with sensors achieve the same thing as a viewing operation. It is thanks to this entrepreneurship and this drive for innovation that this morning more Dutch people stood beside their beds to go to work than ever before in history. To stay at the top we will have to constantly reinvent ourselves, because the world continues to change. According to an ING report, 3D printing can, for example, halve world trade. Things are then printed locally instead of transported with containers. This is good for the environment, but how do we keep the port of Rotterdam strong when less and less cargo is needed? Employers are saying massively that there is a shortage of technicians. How do we train the Netherlands for a world of robotics and artificial intelligence when vacancies for technicians and ICTs cannot even be filled? China is already the largest test zone of drones in the world. How do we stay in charge of logistics when the drones are being made that transport cargo? You will understand that I expect a convincing answer from Minister Wiebes immediately on all these questions, because that is how I know him from Amsterdam, as someone who is ready to do so quickly. Of course, we as D66 are happy to help him on his way, because the coalition agreement makes a tough choice for research and innovation: EUR 400 million extra. The focus is not on existing industries, but above all on societal challenges and key technologies, i.e. climate change, digitisation, photonics and circular agriculture. As far as D66 is concerned, innovation policy is at the service of these priorities. Does the Minister share this line? When can we see the Minister's plans? It is important that the Minister knows that you cannot score without focus. He will therefore have to keep his colleagues in other ministries in mind, should they unexpectedly get the idea that the EUR 150 million for applied research would also be available for very different purposes. That would be shot with hail. Does the Minister agree with us? Colleagues have already drawn attention to SMEs, large companies and the importance of the Wbso to continue to drive the innovative power of SMEs and large companies. D66 always likes to mention the start-ups. These are the new fast entrepreneurs with an idea that might grow into the next big Dutch success story, the new Booking.com or the new Adyen. Innovation competitions can drive that. Put down a problem and let anyone who wants to deliver an innovative solution. In this way, companies like Qualcomm and iRobot have emerged in America. As far as we are concerned, we are therefore going to boost those innovative start-ups by reserving annual innovation money for these types of SBIR competitions. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Then I will move on to the second part, because the Minister is now ready. To keep the Netherlands on top course, much more is needed than innovation. That is why it is very good that we have another Secretary of State on Economic Affairs. But I do see someone standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u141	Yeah, I can see that too. And I'm gonna tell him that he's already got three interruptions on his card, so tomorrow I'll be happy to hear him again. Four? No, three. Well, I'll put one in because I'm soft again today, but only if Mr Öztürk is very short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u142	Fantastic that D66 supports innovation with 400 million euros and supports start-ups. We support that, too. But at some point, a start-up with a wonderful idea needs credit to work out that idea. We are Europe's worst lender. What decisive ideas does D66 have to get this minister to give credit to those innovative companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u143	That question has already been asked to Mr Veldman. In my view, the banks have become very reluctant to lend money in recent years as a result of the crisis, because they see that this money does not always come back and that it can make banks unstable. Right now, we're stepping up the demands on banks. We welcome that, because banks are important for a stable financial system. But it is also good to think about how companies can easily raise money to grow. You have grown the program and there are many examples of seedmoney in the Netherlands. We find it very nice to look in the Netherlands not only at StartupDelta or YES!Delft, but also in many other places in the Netherlands where start-ups with incubators are helped to get started quickly. I see a lot going on in that regard. This is one of the reasons why we have requested a debate today on initial coin offerings. Of course, cryptocurrencies have many disadvantages, but they also have the potential that it is a good way for small businesses to quickly raise a lot of money to grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u144	Fine. But when the banks went bankrupt, as a country, we saved the banks. The banks do not give any credit that has been researched; I suggest that you go through that file properly because they can make little money from small SMEs. It takes a lot of time and expertise. They don't want to make any more money, so they think: we're just standing up for the big companies. Again, it's nice, a few initiatives here and there, but that's only 3% of total lending to small SMEs. 97% are waiting for the support of D66. What are you going to do, in concrete terms, to persuade banks to fulfil their social function?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u145	I do not agree with you that we are doing too little for this, precisely because we have many initiatives to support start-ups. I have just mentioned one more, namely the setting aside of money for SBIRs. In addition, we put a lot of pressure on the interest rate derivatives dossier, which is important for those small entrepreneurs. The loans that banks have provided on the basis of these interest rate derivatives have caused many SMEs problems. Under pressure from politics, the banks are now recovering. I think there's a lot of attention to that all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u146	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u147	To keep the Netherlands on top course, therefore, much more is needed than innovation. For example, the Secretary of State is about protecting free competition. And there, Madam Secretary of State, we see a change very quickly. The Secretary of State can do two things at once, she says. Of course, that's the difference with the man sitting next to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u148	It's true!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u149	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u150	I shall continue with my speaking time. The Internet is what I was talking about here. It has turned the functioning of markets upside down. A company can achieve a market value above the billion in no time, where it used to last decades. And when that happens, it's often because such a company becomes a monopolist in its own specialty. For example, internet and tech giants like Google, Apple and Facebook are now dominant in numerous markets. Because think about it: young people from now on don't know what a scribble on Hyves is anymore, I don't think anyone in this room ever sends an e-mail to someone with a hot address and MPs all have the same phone with an apple on it. Those wars have won Google, Apple and Facebook and the result is that these big three are now dominant in the Netherlands and in Europe. Commissioner Margrethe Vestager is right to launch this debate. She fined Google €2.4 billion for violating the competition rules. Of course, Europe is leading in this, but Member States also have a responsibility. In the United Kingdom, the Competition and Markets Authority, the counterpart of our ACM, has far-reaching powers to combat monopolies and other market failures. Even if there is no evidence of abuse of market power, but it can be proved that the market structure restricts free competition, it will take action. In the past, she broke up the airport monopoly in London. The question is whether our ACM can also play such a leading role without those powers to act actively. Because the Global Competition Review already mentions our ACM as an advanced authority in its ranking of competition authorities, but not one that belongs to that world summit. This is due, among other things, to a lack of output. In 2016, the ACM did not impose any fines for restrictions of competition. An effective authority must also be feared. As far as D66 is concerned, we are debating whether our competition authority has the powers to protect the free market and consumers from the major tech monopolies. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she wants to develop a vision on this issue and, if so, when. We also ask her to indicate in this view what her ambitions are with the ACM and whether the priorities are right. This is one of the reasons why we are organising a hearing with CDA and Christian Union shortly. Mr. Chairman. Another condition for continued growth is less rules. Mr Veldman already asked questions about this. At this point, I would like to refer to the letter sent by the Secretary of State this afternoon on the Chamber of Commerce. It says that next year the Chamber of Commerce is going to make the opening of its data more expensive for large customers. As far as we are concerned, the KvK should facilitate people's businesses and not suddenly raise the rates by a quarter. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u151	Interesting that under market failure D66 also mentions monopolies. That's interesting to hear. I have a question about that. ASML has a monopoly position in the manufacture of chip machines. I just heard Mr Paternotte suggest that those monopolies should be regulated if they become too strong. For example, look at Apple and Google, he actually says. Does he also make a kind of move to make the market where ASML has a position easier for other companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u152	I think that the important question in a monopoly is not so much whether the monopoly itself is the problem, but whether it creates a situation in which others cannot simply enter the market and that monopoly can determine the price. Very highly specialised companies like ASML can indeed be, but with NXP of course we have another company that is also world-leading in an almost the same niche. So we can't say that's the only player.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u153	That is really too easy, because then you talk about a duo oil that jointly determines the market. The question then is whether there is still a dominant position. I think the answer is yes. Does D66 then suggest that because of the kind of companies that are also a little more bound by rules? That's actually the question. She'll take it for foreign companies. Does this apply to Dutch companies or is it only for Dutch companies a little more friendly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u154	No. If we are going to lay down rules, they will apply to everyone in the Netherlands. That is also very important to us. I also think it is very good that you are asking the question, because it seems to me to be a debate that we should take on. I don't know whether I think that a problem arises for ASML and NXP with duopoly. A duopoly as often better than a monopoly. But I am asking whether the competition authority in the Netherlands, in a situation where we still have monopolies in certain niches, still has sufficient power. Mr. Chairman. I will go further, and I will come to undoubtedly the most favorite portfolio of the Secretary of State, namely tourism. Because in her beloved Volendam there are still tourists. Some think that Volendam is a museum and walk into beautiful living rooms of Volendammers who sit on their couch in peace on Sunday afternoons listening to BZN or Jan Smit. Mr. Chairman. Amsterdam also gets enough attention from those tourists. In the Kalverstraat you can walk over the heads daily. Many Amsterdammers see the beer bike more often than their own partner. But besides these hotspots, tourists are a welcome impulse. I already received reactions from Nijmegen and Breda today from mayors and aldermen who say: bring those tourists to us. I'd say go get them. This is good for the liveliness, for the jobs and thus for the regional economy of cities like this in, for example, Friesland, where next year Leeuwarden is the cultural capital of Europe, or for Amsterdam Beach, Zandvoort aan Zee, and Amsterdam Castle; beautiful hotspots that have nothing to do with Amsterdam. Nevertheless, the promotion of Amsterdam as a global brand is in our genes. The Dutch Tourism & Congresses Bureau has a strategy for distribution, but look at its promotional films and you will see Amsterdam. Look at the ten places they recommend tourists and you will see the Rijksmuseum and the Anne Frank House. And look at the Dutch cities they present, and it's all Amsterdam. Nor is their policy consistent with that of the municipality itself, which is aimed at spreading in the region. My question to the Secretary of State: does she want to guarantee that the Empire really does not spend another cent on luring tourists to Amsterdam and all the more to teach tourists that there is a world outside the Ring A10? Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, we are seeing increasing tourism in more and more cities. Renting your house for a while can always be easy via rental platforms. Especially cities notice that rental is increasing. And that's okay, but it's hard when a municipality wants to pay just tourist tax, and if the municipality wants to maintain on up to 60 days holiday rental. A city with almost a million people does come to the table at a platform like Airbnb, but smaller cities do not. Moreover, they do not simply have the opportunity to enforce tax payments via a platform or to ensure that landlords do not continue to rent on another platform after 60 days. Therefore, together with the CDA, we ask the Secretary of State if she wants to go a step further in assisting smaller cities. Help them not only with advice, but by using the full weight of the Ministry to bring platforms to agreements, if necessary through a national toolbox. Mr. Chairman. Before I finish, I'm gonna have to get something off my chest. I see a number of small parties here in the Chamber, all of which are doing their best to get as many budgets as possible. I have a great deal of respect for that, because such a budget debate is the place where you express your ideas every year, where you defend your party's views. SGP and DENK are even in almost every budget debate. However, for the umpteenth time in these budgetary treatments, we see the unbearable void in Thierry Baudet's seat on the right back. That surprises me, because in Rotterdam his party recently made a proposal on this budget to do something about the halalslagers and Turkish vegetable men. Joost Eerdmans said: it is time again for the ordinary Dutch vegetable farmer. He announced his intention to amend the Establishment Act so that a permit can be refused to such a Turkish or Moroccan shopkeeper. In other words, if you're Moroccan, then you're not a store. You can honk around Rotterdam that kind of rancid proposals, but if you want to get it done, you have to do it right here, where we make laws. For example, in this budget debate, which is covered by the Establishment Act. He doesn't come here to defend that, but he did let Turkish and Moroccan Rotterdammers say that their shops should be replaced by Dutch shops. I like that. I think that's cowardly, cowardly, cowardly!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u155	I am not going to ask a question about Moroccan or Dutch SME's, the vegetable man around the corner, but I am going to ask Mr Paternotte about the national master plan for photonics. D66 is always in for innovation, always has good ideas about innovation. Can D66 also find something in one of the top three sectors we have named, including photonics, on which we are going to move together to take bigger steps? With that key technology, I think we can make a difference, maybe a difference of two steps ahead of the Chinese.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u156	I understand you're asking the question. Often when I'm in the Brainport, I meet you there, too. Then we hear a lot of inspiring stories about what can happen with this key technology, photonics. You are indeed asking for a master plan, but I think this is one of the reasons why this has been explicitly named as one of the four key technologies that should be at the forefront. So I'm confident it's gonna happen. I think we're very good together in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u157	Thank you. Then there is Mr Jetten, also from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u158	Mr. Chairman. I am just briefly spokesperson climate for D66 and in the first few weeks I am already impressed by all the dynamics. With some MPs I went to the climate summit in Bonn, where our greenest government agreement was ever received with great enthusiasm. I spoke with entrepreneurs, environmental organisations and residents' initiatives who are eager to speed up the shift to clean energy. Minister Wiebes went to work from day one. Even our Prime Minister argued yesterday in Paris for 55% less CO emissions. And my own Nijmegen is ready to be the climate capital of Europe for a year from January. In short, a green vibe. That's why I have every confidence that we're going to live up to those climate ambitions. Mr. Chairman. A small revolution took place at the negotiating table. In addition to D66 and the Christian Union, VVD and CDA joined the greenest coalition agreement ever. The Netherlands was at the bottom of the European climate lists for a long time, but we are now setting the tone for more ambition. We are going to reduce CO emissions by 55% by 2030. We do this at EU level or, if necessary, in a leading group of countries. D66 believes that a role that fits the Netherlands, the role of guide country in Europe. I would like to hear from the Minister how his first talks with European colleagues have taken place with a view to reaching that leading group on enhanced climate objectives. But in order to achieve that 55% in Europe, we, too, as the Netherlands, need to get to work. In the short term, the Minister will have to ensure that all his colleagues in the cabinet are really going to steer those fine goals in the coalition agreement. How is the Minister going to hold his colleagues to that? What are the consequences for ministries that fail to meet their CO targets? Will the Climate Act of GroenLinks, PvdA, SP, D66 and the Christian Union offer sufficient instruments or is more needed? The Minister himself is working on a new climate and energy agreement. This is important because governments, businesses and citizens must work together to save more energy, generate more clean energy and create more green jobs. D66 wants to learn from the current energy agreement. This was historic because of its broad support, but the results are insufficient. That is why I would like to give the Minister three frameworks for this new agreement: 1. Ensure the widest possible political support. 2. Dare to set standards from the government. 3. Better send for compliance with climate agreements. That political support is needed because climate affects all of us. We must work together from left to right if we are to live up to those ambitions. According to D66, the Chamber must also be more involved in the next energy agreement and not just sign at the cross. Does the Minister agree with D66 and how will he involve the Chamber in drawing up that agreement? If we really want to take steps in this climate and energy agreement, then we will also have to make clear choices as a government. Clean must be more attractive than old and dirty techniques. Businesses and citizens need to know where they stand so that they can take up their role within the frameworks. Does the Minister agree with D66 that we as a government need to set more standards? On what points does he see opportunities for this in the new energy agreement? Finally, I said it just now, even though we must also respect the agreement better. This requires enforcement if governments and companies fail to meet their targets. I would like the Minister's commitment to ensure that the new climate and energy agreement includes tighter monitoring of compliance. Mr. Chairman. D66 wants a clean and smart energy and heat supply. The coal plants are closing down as quickly as possible, we are kicking off our gas addiction and we are finding new energy sources for our homes, schools, businesses and heavy industries. The coalition agreement contains a number of important choices. All coal plants must be closed by 2030. Closing coal plants is one of the most efficient and cheapest ways to reduce our CO emissions significantly. D66 therefore wants to lay down the legal framework for the closure of coal plants. I am pleased that today the Minister has informed us by letter that he is working on a legal ban on coal. Can the Minister promise that this proposal will come to the Chamber before the energy agreement is concluded, because such a coal power plant closure law is a very important framework for our transition to clean energy? As far as D66 is concerned, Hemweg is the first power station to close quickly. This old and dirty plant is good for 4 megatons of CO and leads to very dirty air in Amsterdam. But like GroenLinks, we're not gonna give away 55 million euros of taxpayers' money for that closure. It has to be and can be cheaper. I am curious when the Minister will start the negotiations to smoke out the owners of the Hemweg plant, so that the plant can close at the lowest possible price. In the meantime, we're trading those dirty coals for clean winds and sunshine. In the coalition agreement it was agreed to build more windmills at sea. At what time can the Minister indicate additional places for windmills? And how can we ensure that the Dutch maritime sector and the maritime sector take full advantage of this? Can the Minister confirm, as Mrs Mulder has just said, that there will be a smooth transition to the new solar netting scheme? Besides wind and sun, we also need new techniques. D66 wants to scale up innovative solutions. Energy from water and heat from the earth are two forms of endless clean energy that we can work directly with. First of all, energy from water. In Leeuwarden and on the Afsluitdijk one draws energy from places where fresh and salt water come together; Blue Energy is called. They want to build a large pilot plant at Katwijk. If this is a success, it will offer enormous opportunities for energy generation in the Netherlands waterland, but we also have an export product for the rest of the world. Does the Minister see opportunities for Blue Energy? And is the Minister willing to see if the pilot plant at Katwijk can be financially supported, possibly via Invest-NL? Besides energy from water, D66 also wants to do more work on heat from earth, geothermal. That's clean and available in many places. If we lower the risks and increase the knowledge about geothermal energy, geothermal energy can quickly gain market share. In Brabant, for example, candy manufacturer Mars and brewer Bavaria already go to the geothermal heat. We want more businesses and residential areas to take that step. Is the Minister prepared to create an opportunity map where people and businesses can see where it is interesting to extract energy from geothermal energy and thus link supply and demand? Is the Minister also willing to allow state-owned company EBN, Energy Management Netherlands, to participate in drilling for heat, as EBN already does with gas and oil? We want EBN to make the switch towards a clean energy source. I'm considering a motion on this point with the CDA. Mr. Chairman. An innovation that has been a great deal to do is the storage of CO. For some industries this measure is necessary over the next decade. But D66 wants to prevent a subsidy for renewable energy from going to full CO storage. Fortunately, the Minister has already indicated that the current scheme cannot be used for CO storage in 2018. He's coming up with a plan to finance the CO storage. Does the Minister agree with D66 that any funding for CO storage should be paid mainly by companies and not only by citizens because pollution comes from those companies? Can the Minister promise that his proposal of next summer will also leave sufficient room for the promotion of clean energy? Mr. Chairman. Finally, on this point. Capturing CO and putting it under the ground is actually a shame, because there are also more and more possibilities to re-use CO smartly. If the Minister is looking at CO storage, is he prepared to focus on how we can stimulate CO reuse?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u159	What Mr Jetten is saying about the SDE+ scheme and the promotion of renewable energy production is very appealing to me. I actually hear him implicitly saying that we should not spend that money on CO storage. It should be earmarked for the SDE. Is Mr Jetten prepared to fully maintain that compartment, so the budget now earmarked for SDE, and to finance CO storage from other sources?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u160	In a debate last week or two weeks ago, the Minister made it very clear that we need the SDE, Stimulation Sustainable Energy Production, to make the switch to clean energy. That must be where the focus is. But we also agreed that we want to make CO storage possible. I am now giving the Minister a few directions for the proposals he is sending us next year. For D66, it is important that money remains available for clean energy and that if we need additional funding for CO storage, we will not only get it from citizens, but we will also pay companies their fair share.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u161	How much money can be taken out of the SDE pot for CO storage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u162	I can't answer that right now. I also need the Minister's proposals for this, but I have just said that we want to continue to stimulate wind, to continue to stimulate sunshine and to stimulate geothermal energy. We're gonna need some money for that, too, so we need to keep that available. But as far as the exact millions available for this are concerned, I would like to await the Minister's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u163	Thank you. The next speaker will be Mr Moorlag of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u164	Mr President, I was not finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u165	Oh, I thought you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u166	No, I just said, finally, about CO storage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u167	Excuse me! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u168	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. That a mentality of tackling climate and energy pays off, shows the city of Nijmegen. Nijmegen is the first Dutch city to be called the green capital of Europe for a year, not because of beautiful plans on paper but because of tough results. Green Capital 2018 is also a nice sign for the Netherlands to show what we can do in the Netherlands in terms of climate transition. Green Capital can also be a platform for all our municipalities and companies to exchange knowledge and inspiration. Is the Minister willing to make a small financial contribution to Green Capital 2018? And does he see opportunities to use the year as a climate capital to organise a number of climate and energy summits in Nijmegen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u169	Are you ready now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u170	After this, I'll be on Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u171	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u172	A question at this point, because that train is already driving, and what does the rest of society get back for the money we might invest in it? Then what are we going to do with it for a long, long time? Or are we gonna talk to each other once and that's it? How do we carry local renewable energy generation forward for a long time? Does that contribute to the goals we have here? Of course I am very proud of Nijmegen that it has picked this up, but now it seems as if we are being asked for some more money. It would be so nice if you could jointly meet your goals in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u173	The talks about how the Empire can become a partner of Green Capital have been going on for a long time. Unfortunately, the former Secretary of State liked to organise climate events in California rather than in the Netherlands. That's where it's a little jammed up. But I don't think we're too late. In Nijmegen, there are all kinds of events, congresses, seminars for policy makers and companies for a year, but the city is going to ensure that great successes such as energy cooperatives of residents exchange knowledge and experience with each other, so that the successes in Nijmegen and the Gelderland region can also be picked up in the rest of the country. That year is therefore really meant for knowledge exchange and to further stimulate the energy transition in the Netherlands. So that price isn't just for Nijmegen. I also see this award as an appreciation for all the municipalities in the Netherlands that are already at the forefront of that climate and energy transition. And it's time for the Empire to walk along with all our fellow governments. Mr. Chairman. Then I'd like to end up in gas extraction in Groningen. The Committee on Economic Affairs has recently been on a working visit in Groningen, and that has made a deep impression on me. The Minister rightly said that the problem in Groningen is a Dutch problem. It's not just a technical problem, in the sense of: how do you prevent tremors and how do you strengthen? What touched me most during that work visit is the social impact that that earthquake has on so many Groningers. We need to work that out with each other. We are going to talk a lot about the damage protocol, about the new extraction plan, and, as far as I am concerned, about the spiritual guidance that Groningen needs. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement contains a number of important agreements, namely the further reduction of gas extraction, the remote placing of the NAM and additional investment in the human and the economy of the region of Groningen. But for D66 that is still not enough: we need to reduce domestic gas demand faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u174	There's an interruption, but just finish your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u175	That's a long point. We need to reduce domestic gas demand faster. 96% of our homes still depend on gas. Dutch companies consume 14.4 billion cubic tons of gas per year. The agricultural sector is at the forefront of this by no less than 4 billion cubic metres. I am therefore looking forward with interest to the gas phasing-out plan which the Minister has already announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u176	Thank you. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u177	I was also allowed to go with the Chambers Committee once, but I have also been alone four times in Groningen with my p.a. and policy officer. What strikes me, Mr President, and the Members of Parliament must be able to agree on this, is the following: almost nothing changes. It also impressed me so much. I've only seen people crying, mentally and physically devastated. Could D66 support the proposal to just let other people get in the way there? I don't mean that negative to the people sitting there and now in charge, but sometimes you just have to brush through it and start with a fresh wind again, because it doesn't run, it's wall-, wall- and wall-proof. People don't notice anything. I don't notice anything as a Member of Parliament. What's D66 gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u178	What D66 has already done is to conclude a coalition agreement in which we agree that we are seriously working with Groningen. To be honest, I think that the new minister really shows a trend break in relation to his predecessor. That gives me confidence. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity, over the coming months, to work with the damages protocol and the ruling of the Council of State and to prove that we are now moving in a different direction as far as Groningen is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u179	Beautiful words, of course. You say that we have a coalition agreement that is going to work seriously with Groningen. Are you serious about this? In the next two years, the extraction of gas in Groningen will not be reduced at all, as stated in the coalition agreement. You are saying that it is not enough for me either. You're a little embarrassed about the coalition agreement. Then what's enough for you? Would you really like to be specific? Because that's what the Groningers are waiting for, not "let's just make some more plans." What is concrete enough for you now? How much does this gas extraction have to go down?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u180	A nice little bridge from Mrs Beckerman to the last part of my speech. A few questions have just been asked about how we can reduce gas demand from abroad, exports. I would now like to make some suggestions on how we can bring down gas demand in the Netherlands. The best guarantee for Groningen that the gas tap can be closed further is to ensure that we consume less gas in this country. We really need to get to work on that. In recent years, it has rightly been a lot about security, about resolution of damage and reinforcement, but it has been too little about how we can get gas demand down faster. I am pleased that the Minister has announced a phasing-out plan. At the end of my speech, I would like to make a few specific proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u181	I'm sorry, but you're seeing a disappointed member of the SP here. They're really beautiful words. They are also big words that you speak. That's impressive, but what doesn't impress me is that eternal "yes, we're gonna think about it again, we're gonna talk about it again." You're afraid to mention a number again. Groningers have been waiting for a number for so long. Would you at least say that you find it extremely painful with me that where the SodM, the supervisor, says "we can already go back this period to 13 billion cubic metres if we build that plant in Zuidbroek so that we can convert gas," this Minister postpones this decision? Could you at least undertake to do so, so that at least this period we can turn the gas tap back to 13 billion cubic metres?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u182	I look forward with interest to the Minister's answers on the nitrogen plant. Mrs Beckerman also knows that D66 has always been critical of this. If you invest in energy projects in Groningen, you can opt for a nitrogen factory, but you can also choose to invest massively in hydrogen, for example, the future of Groningen. So I'm a little more critical than you are. Mr. Chairman. I arrived at the end of my speech with a number of concrete proposals. I told you, 96% of our homes still depend on gas. D66 wants to speed up with homeowners and housing corporations, not only for new buildings but also for existing homes and buildings. The current technology makes it difficult to get rid of the gas at once for all these buildings. It can also be done in a natural way. CV boilers are replaced every 15 years. That is a good time to opt for alternatives that consume less gas. D66 and the CDA therefore want to phase out the gas fired central heating boiler. We choose hybrid resume boilers or other sustainable alternatives. Houses with hybrid boilers, Mrs Beckerman, consume 60% less gas. If we replace all gas boilers in the Netherlands with hybrid boilers over the next fifteen years, there is therefore 172 billion cubic tons less gas demand in the Netherlands. That's good for the climate, good for Groningen and everyone can just be warm. I also hope that the SP will support the D66 and CDA proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u183	I'm afraid to ask, but are you done now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u184	I just want to say that we have the greenest coalition agreement ever, with great ambitions. But we must also make it happen, so that in four years' time we can say: this was really the greenest coalition agreement ever. I'll hold the minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u185	Of course, your proposal to ensure that households accelerate from the gas can handle me. If you table a motion with the opposition parties, it is very often that the government parties come forward to ask: what is your cover? How much do you want to take off for this? Or would you like to ask again for an investigation and think for a while? Do you really want to help people get rid of that gas, including the people who can't afford it? Then what's your cover? How much do you take off for that? We don't buy anything for good stories alone, we also need concrete actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u186	I'm actually wondering if there's so much coverage needed. Look at today's reactions from environmental organisations, VNO-NCW and installation companies. They're really excited to work with those hybrid resume boilers. If we manage to place 40,000 of those hybrid boilers in the country every year, the price simply goes to the current price of a gas-fired central heating boiler. So that's actually a very simple calculation to make with each other. When it comes to a motion, we ask the Minister to make a concrete action plan with the installation companies. Then, with regard to D66 and the CDA, we can switch from gas-fired central heating boiler to hybrid boiler at no extra cost to the citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u187	That sounds really nice. Unfortunately, the reality is still a bit different. Would you like to do some extras for all those tenants who are currently going to pay a higher energy bill? Your cabinet pays €50, or no, even €40 per social rental house. That's one warm sweater or three snuggies. We really need more investment to make sure that these rental homes can get rid of the gas and be more sustainable, so that people get a better home. It's gonna take more than that. Would you agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u188	I agree with Mrs Beckerman that we must also ensure that social housing is preserved quickly. I believe that most corporations have enough money to make that happen. Corporations that refuse to do so must be tackled. The Minister of Housing must do so, together with the Minister of Climate Change. We can also take huge steps in social housing in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u189	I did indeed have a question for Mr Jetten on this point, also in view of the fact that his fellow coalition colleague, Mrs Mulder, indicated in an earlier interrupting debate that incentives cannot be free of charge. We are happy to support this; we have wanted this for a long time. But if you want this, you're gonna need money. Mr Jetten would really help me if he indicated where that came from. Is that from the climate envelope of 300 million still to be spent? Does it have to be extra? Will he come to the Spring Note with us to make a supplementary proposal? Or is he willing to look, as I suggested, at giving back the transfer tax for a particular group of properties? This means a higher transfer tax for more expensive homes. In short, please deliver some butter to this desirable fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u190	I fully agree with what Mrs Mulder has just said. If it is necessary to hunt this down in the first few years, then we must also be prepared to make a small financial contribution to it. That could possibly come from that huge innovation envelope we have. But I suggest that we just let the Minister make an action plan with the sector first. If the Minister says that he needs some extra money, then he will come back to the Chamber and I promise you that, together with Mrs Mulder and the parties who want to, I will ensure that we can also finance it. But again, the installation sector itself says: if we choose to phase out the gas-fired central heating boiler, and the market has no option other than to place that hybrid boiler, then that price goes down hugely. Then it doesn't have to cost so much money to let all homes in the Netherlands use 60% less Groningen gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u191	If I may, Mr. Chairman? I understand that Mr Jetten is talking about extra money if that proves necessary. But that may still be necessary if there is no ban on the traditional kettle, because that is actually his other option. Would you confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u192	That's another very different question, but as far as I'm concerned, we're going to phase out the central heating boiler. Then you must also make clear to the consumer and the market the year from which that gas-fired central heating boiler is simply no longer placed in our homes. I was talking at the beginning about the part about the climate and energy agreement, about the roles that the government can play. One of them is setting standards. I think you should also set standards when it comes to gas consumption in homes and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u193	On that last point, I would very much like to continue, because everyone is aware of the need to get rid of that Groningen gas. The Christian Union would very much like to take part in this proposal. But when I look in my own municipality, I see that gas hobs and gas fireplaces are still placed. At the moment when the boilers are replaced, there will be high efficiency boilers, but they are still gas boilers. How are we gonna make this move? Once again, I wholeheartedly support it and I would also very much like to think along with it, but if we agree here in the Chamber, that does not mean that it is going to happen. How do we want to make that translation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u194	So I think we can set a very clear standard for those gas-fired central heating boilers, so that we can really hit them. Mrs Dik-Faber cites another example, that of the gas hob. That's another discussion, I think. We may have to get rid of gas eventually, but other options are also possible, for example with green gas. Mrs Mulder's and I's proposal also stems from the fact that we all replace those central heating boilers every 15 years. That is a very natural moment to be able to do something for the Groningers. I would like to work with Mrs Dik-Faber to further reduce other forms of gas consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u195	Let's zoom in on those kettles. Honestly, people around me who have to replace the boiler don't think about new systems yet. The picture is: there will be another solution somewhere, but how do I find out and who should I turn to? It seems complicated. It seems expensive. So in practice it is very difficult to make that transition. Isn't it necessary to make the move together to make consumers, installers, all of us aware of the need to put a dot on the horizon? Name a year. I do not know which year might be a question for the Minister, but we really must say: from that year on, we are simply not going to put them down. Then there really needs to be another solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u196	I fully agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that we need to give that clarity. That could well be part of the action plan we are asking the Minister. As far as I'm concerned, it goes beyond just the resume boilers. If you want to remodel your home now or if you're building a new house, you don't get good information in many places when you go to a contractor or an installation company. One of my esteemed employees will soon receive a new building in Leiden. Not wanting gas in your apartment is not an option. If you want a more sustainable house than the one you can choose from the catalogue, you have to pay extra. During the work visit to Groningen we spoke to people whose house is being strengthened because of the earthquakes in Groningen. They get a house with a gas connection back! If we still do that, we're all screwed up. So I fully agree with you: we need to set clear standards to help the sector and consumers to make their homes more sustainable much faster. Now I'm really done, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u197	Thank you. I call Mr Moorlag of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To be honest, I am a little confused by the optimism that Mr Jetten is radiating. I'm also naturally an optimist, but I'm also a bit suspicious for professional reasons. We must look to the future with optimism, but we must also have some suspicion. The economy of the Netherlands is growing. That is clearly the case. The financial crisis is behind us. We are still trying to clean up the mess of banks and financial institutions. Anyway, the economy is growing. It is the conviction of the Labour Party that this growth is seriously threatened. The threat lies first and foremost in the shortage of labour. Entrepreneurs simply let turnover and assignments go because they don't have people to realize that turnover or to carry out those assignments. There has been an enormous shortage in the labour market. It's rising really fast. Not only ICTs and technicians are scarce. There are also shortages in construction and in catering even cooks. There's even a complaint about a shortage of truck drivers. It's just a shame we're losing our economic growth potential. It is surely also a shame that we leave people on the sidelines at the same time. That is unacceptable as far as the PvdA is concerned. That's gotta be different. The PvdA wonders, and also asks the Minister, whether the current policy mix of improving the conditions of establishment, reducing the burden and stimulating innovation - a kind of sacred trinity - is still effective. Does that get you more professionals to work? On the one hand, we bring money to big business, but on the other hand, is it not better, the Labour Party wonders, to invest that money in human capital? What good is it for our society to spend money on businesses as if they were hailing? And what good is a knowledge-based economy if knowledge is not applied? The PvdA finds it indigestible that we do not exploit our economic growth potential because of the shortage of professionals. The PvdA thinks we really need to change course. In order to ensure economic growth, we need to make a very targeted and better use of resources. Does the Minister share that view? And what will the Minister and the Secretary of State do to deal with the lack of professionals? This lack of professionals is not only a threat to economic growth, but also a serious threat to the energy transition. Take the sustainability of the housing stock. More than 7 million homes must be preserved by the year 2050. The cost of making a house fully sustainable is something of €60,000. There is roughly six months' work per house. 7 million homes up to 2050 means a quarter of a million homes per year more sustainable. A quarter of a million! This simply means that there are 250 working days of house maintenance. It is estimated that the PvdA will require around 100,000 to 150,000 professionals. These are people who can build solar panels, install hybrid central heating pumps or isolate homes. Where the hell are we gonna get these people? 125,000 employees on top of the big deficits we already have. The sustainability of the housing stock is another source of concern for the Labour Party. We are concerned about the position of the tenants. This has already been discussed in the debate on the ODE. We believe that tenants have too few options to send on their energy bill. We believe that tenants are also entitled to an energy-neutral home. How will the Minister ensure that tenants will not lose their total housing costs more than in the current situation? How are you going to ensure that housing corporations are actually going to make these homes more sustainable? 100 million have been earmarked for this in the coalition agreement. With €60,000 per house, you can't make 2 000 homes more sustainable. 2,000! The cabinet wants a pilot of 20,000 to 30,000 homes by 2020. How the hell are you gonna scale that up to a quarter of a million? Are the tenants not going to be the ones who have it checked and are going to have to pay the cost of the energy transition via taxes on the energy bill? That's gotta be different, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the Climate Act and the new energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u199	In my opinion, the CDA and the PvdA find each other today in the great concerns about the shortage of labour and about the good match. Does the PvdA recognise that we need to be able to handle resources flexibly if we have too many people in one sector and too little in the other? We must therefore take a critical look at the sacred houses: the abandonment of sectors and the release of R&D funds from the workers' organisations. We need to deal with this more flexibly in order to resolve the concerns we share together. Therein employers and employees have a responsibility and also the people in vocational K, whoever may be there: Social Affairs, EZ or OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u200	I agree with you. Well, let's be honest, it's really necessary to detach. I heard Mr Paternotte praise innovation and training. I note, however, that this is mainly about the training of higher-skilled workers, while the biggest bottleneck in the labour market is in the lower-educated. We have between one and two million people in the Netherlands who are low-lettered. They are often at work, but the lifespan of training and occupations is getting shorter and shorter. So I agree with you that we need to move away not only to help people who are on the sidelines, but also to equip those who are still at work with the skills needed for the new economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u201	Is Mr Moorlag therefore prepared to send that signal to the trade unions, the trade unions, together with us and a number of other Members of Parliament? Because they are often still in old structures and mainly in sectors to think about. I believe that together, both employers, employees and us MPs, we have the task of including the social partners in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u202	I think that's an interesting thought. I have expressed my concern that we have absolutely insufficient people for this energy transition. It is not just people who are going to make the housing stock more sustainable, but we also need all those technicians to build and maintain those wind farms at sea. Energy transition is so incredibly comprehensive. In my opinion, the new energy agreement will have to include a compartment with labour market policy. It is therefore also important for workers' organisations and employers' organisations to be closely involved in this new energy agreement. They're gonna have to make arrangements about that. There must be a common sense of urgency, because economic growth and the energy transition cannot be achieved if we do not have enough hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u203	That sounds very good: enough hands. Well, unlike the banks, we can only spend the euro once. Banks do it 25 times, but they can't do it in the ordinary economy. Does Mr Moorlag agree with us that, in the context of this decommitment, you should actually choose in these forthcoming agendas that every euro can only go to sustainable transition technology? Every euro we put into subsidising fossil industry or training in it is actually a shame, because it is a dead industry. Actually, we need all those hands in the transition industry. Does Mr Moorlag agree with us that as a government you certainly have to choose to do something sustainable or not to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u204	I agree with the view that we should stop investing in technologies and economic activities that will no longer be viable in the future. That is why the Labour Party also objects to putting a lot of public funds into the capture and storage of CO. To my taste, it is better to put euros in preventing CO from being produced, rather than in capturing and storing produced CO. That is, to my taste, the wrong approach. We need a preventive approach and not a curative one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u205	And if that also applies to spending euros on training in that transition, then I think we have found each other. That's nice, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u206	I'll notice something about that. Look, right now, there are people working in those power plants. They have earned their living there, and they will also have to earn their living in the future. We must have the flexibility of mind and the willingness to invest money in the retraining of people who are getting overwhelmed by the phasing out of fossil energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u207	Mr Moorlag said something about higher education, but I think the government agreement also clearly recognises that we will need everyone in the future. More and more jobs are being created to enable us to participate in these technological changes. That is why there is an extra EUR 100 million for technical education in VMBO. My question to Mr Moorlag is whether he is also willing to acknowledge that this means that we are getting a different culture, where it is no longer the case that you go to school and then work your whole life, but where it becomes normal on rocks that people of his age are also sometimes walking around to learn some extras and then using new skills in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u208	That's what I'm getting from the heart. If you're working somewhere for years... I'll give you the random example of a slaughterhouse, where you see 105 carcasses per hour that you're doing a monotonous, short-cycle act, when you know you can't do that job after you're 50, 55th because of the working conditions. Then you just have to invest in people in time to give them the opportunity to do other, appropriate work. In the jargon, it's called lifelong learning. I believe that training arrangements should be put in place to raise the level of the working population. That's how you get hungry in the chimney. Lower-skilled people can move towards secondary jobs, people who are still completely on the sidelines can be deployed at the bottom of the labour market. You can start bet the disabled. There's got to be some real appetite in the chimney.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u209	That too is a wonderful story. Mr Moorlag therefore always speaks in very nice metaphors; the Secretary of State has already mentioned it. My question is whether he can at least acknowledge that with an investment in education of 1.5 billion, most of which go to basic education and VMBO, we have the greatest regard for that side of the labour market that we will need most in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u210	I sincerely hope that these resources will end up there too, because in many companies training resources usually go to the better educated people. There is often also the most dynamic in the functions. Further training is urgently needed, because there is simply insufficient investment in the lower part of the labour market. That also simply hampers people's participation. In the past you could print a euro in a parking meter and then you saw on a clock how long you could park, but nowadays you see a written instruction on a display. As an illiterate, you can't even operate a parking meter like that, let alone get into the current labour market. We really need to invest in that. Mr. Chairman. I come to the Climate Act and the new energy agreement. The PvdA does indeed want both a climate law and a new energy agreement, but how does the Minister intend to do that? How's he gonna set up that trial? What does the architecture of that process look like? There was a start meeting with 200 parties. The trade union movement and the environmental organizations were reported to have been somewhat modestly represented. Does the Minister give them a full position in achieving the new energy agreement? In the conviction of the Labour Party, this is urgently needed in order to gain support for a new agreement. How will the Minister involve the initiators of the Climate Act in his legislative process? For the Labour Party, it is crucial that the new bill includes a climate budget, a five-year climate plan and a climate committee to guarantee all instruments. The new Climate Act must not be voluntary and the objectives set out in the Climate Act must be political and, as far as I am concerned, legally enforceable. Is the Minister prepared to anchor these principles in the new Climate Act? Mr. Chairman. The energy transition is going to have a huge impact on society. My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to have an impact analysis done. What is the impact of the energy transition on space, both on land and at sea? What's the impact on income on people's wallets? It's just going to cost hundreds of billions and I think we should communicate transparently to the people how that money is being generated. I have already talked about the impact on the labour market, but where does the Minister get the investment capacity from? With $100 million, you actually don't realize anything when it comes to making the housing stock more sustainable. But huge investments must be made in a new electricity grid, both at micro level in the neighbourhoods and at the macro level of international connections in Europe. How's the minister gonna get that investment capital together? Is the Minister also prepared to include, with financial institutions such as pension funds, banks and private investors, a compartment in the new energy agreement to finance this huge task ahead of us? The PvdA simply wants to have clarity about this, because society is entitled to it. Something else the PvdA thinks is important: we do not agree with the policy of large-scale CO capture and storage. This must be achieved by 2030. Quite frankly, I find the energy agreement sometimes a bit of a green treatment and if you scratch that treatment off, there is sometimes very little behind it. Many goals that need to be met are beyond the reach of this government period. The Labour Party simply wants a feasibility analysis of the CCS programme proposed by the Cabinet. There must be a form of backcasting in order to gradually clarify what is needed to actually achieve those targets by 2030. Mr. Chairman. A lot has been said about gas extraction. The Minister spoke of government failure. I speak of a gross scandal! It's just a big scandal that Groningers are still worse off than other residents in the Netherlands and that Groningers have to fight so hard to get some form of justice and to be fully compensated. The Labour Party believes that any damage and any disadvantage to the Groningen people should be removed. It's just embarrassing that the extraction of gas is being reduced so slowly during this period. My question to the Minister is that I am out of my speaking time: does he see this as a duty of honour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u211	Thank you. Then we will listen to the contribution of the Christian Union. As the first speaker, we are listening to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u212	Mr. Chairman. The economy is running well right now. At the same time, we know that more prosperity also means more energy. More energy means more raw materials and more emissions. The major shortcoming in our economy is that it is not sustainable in the long term because of the finiteness of the earth and the way we deal with man and nature. It is therefore a good thing that this cabinet has opted for Economic Affairs and Climate to be housed in a single ministry. Some people in the outside world laughed at it, didn't understand. I think it is very logical, because only if prosperity is balanced with well-being, only if money is earned and natural and social capital is preserved go hand in hand, will we build a future for our children. We need social entrepreneurs, because just as economic growth cannot be without technological innovation, it cannot be without a radical change in our behaviour and our way of doing business. Mr. Chairman. It is good that, after the removal of the innovation programmes and the FES funds in 2011, this cabinet is investing substantially in innovation again. 70% of our export value comes from the manufacturing industry and especially the high-tech manufacturing industry. The Christian Union wants a long-term industrial policy focusing on professionals, a lifelong development and development of the Smart Industry agenda. Can the Minister explain how he intends to proceed with beta and technology, with Smart Industry and with the major challenges facing the technological industry? The Christian Union welcomes the broad focus in the government agreement on applied research and innovation, and the substantial investment of EUR 200 million. For example, additional investments are made in the major technological institutes and in public-private partnerships. Can the Minister tell us more about this and can he confirm that the money is actually going into technologically applied research, coordinated by him? I would particularly like to draw attention to the TO2 institutes such as MARIN, for which the state contribution has fallen to only 7% of the total funding. The Schaaf Committee expressed concerns about MARIN's strategic knowledge base and felt that the state contribution had fallen below the critical lower limit. Will the Minister invest extra in the TO2 institutes such as MARIN? Maintaining the knowledge base of the Van Swinden Laboratory, our national institute for calibrations, is also crucial. The lab is now completely on its own, private, without subsidies. This means that the institute's knowledge base must be fully funded through business-to-business services. Is the Minister keeping a little on the pulse, please, if it is also possible to secure the knowledge base through cooperation with public knowledge institutes? Will he, say in spring 2018, again report to the Chamber on the state of the transition? Mr. Chairman. For innovative procurement, high tender costs, SBIR, Invest-NL and the SME test, I refer briefly to the questions of Mrs Mulder and Mr Veldman. I want to move on to SMEs. The Christian Union wants a strong position of SMEs in innovation policy. It is therefore a good thing that the government agreement extends the MIT scheme for SME innovation stimulation and innovation credits. How's the Minister gonna do this? I have already raised my concerns about the tariff reduction in the Wbso in the event of interruption during Mr Veldman's contribution. It is important to maintain the percentages in both the first and second disks. Can the Minister choose not to change the percentages for 2018 and to closely monitor budget exhaustion? Mr. Chairman. There is ample attention in the policy to start-ups, but there are concerns about the growth, the so-called scale-ups. The Dutch Committee for Entrepreneurship and Financing has recently warned against the increasing labour shortages and the slowness of productivity. Risk financing is often lacking, as Mr Öztürk pointed out. The Jheronimus Academy of Data Science in Den Bosch conducts research into scale-ups. Will the Minister respond to the committee's warning? Is he willing to facilitate research into scale-ups? Mr. Chairman. A level playing field is needed for our business to compete with abroad. Germany has a scheme to stimulate innovation in shipbuilding. The Dutch shipbuilding industry is internationally competitive and highly innovative, Mr Graus mentioned it. However, the sector needs a similar regime to address development risks in the case of sustainability innovations. Last year my amendment on this subject was adopted by a large majority, in order to identify a small part of the energy innovation demonstration scheme for sustainable shipbuilding. A separate regime is therefore reasonable and also necessary to create a level playing field. This year too, I am asking for this per amendment. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The Christian Union finds coercion on shopkeepers to open on Sundays very undesirable. We saw this in the Groningen shopping mall Paddepoel. We therefore strongly oppose the so-called 'buy Sunday fines'. Evaluation of the Shopping Times Act showed that 7% of shopkeepers have a lease contract with a penalty clause, while only a quarter indicate that they can get out of this penalty clause. The Secretary of State rightly states in her letter that small entrepreneurs should not be forced to work seven days a week, but at the same time does not want to intervene legally now, pending an ongoing trial. We know that other places are still subject to Sunday shopping fines. Does an individual exemption offer sufficient freedom of choice for shopkeepers? Isn't there arbitrariness after all? Is the Secretary of State aware that exemptions are often temporary and should be renewed every year? How is she going to protect the freedom of shopkeepers to be closed on Sundays? Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u213	I am always grateful to the Christian Union for the motions and amendments for the innovative shipbuilding industry. We've supported it for years, including Carola Schouten's in the past, your former roommate. I have also asked in my speech to look as far as possible for loopholes and gaps in the procurement rules imposed on us by the European Union. We can then continue to produce and weld everything in the Netherlands, especially when it comes to the maritime sector. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Perhaps Mr Bruins, through you, Mr President, could ask again, also as a coalition partner, to really look for gaps in those procurement rules, as long as they are still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u214	'Maces and holes' are dangerous words, but I understand exactly what Mr Graus means and I agree with him very much. We are in the Netherlands rather... Let me say... We certainly do not take any risks when it comes to procurement from the government. And yet we know that when it comes to innovative procurement, public authorities and businesses in Brussels, they are allowed to run together. When specifications for new products are placed in procurement procedures that are so clever and so complicated that the product does not yet exist, you may be able to tender innovatively. Then you can go along with a company you choose to run such a route. And of course you can choose a Dutch company. Innovative procurement is an excellent way of giving innovative companies a boost, including Brussels, in procurement. It really bothers me that we are in procurement departments of ministries and local departments of buyers who do not know how to use technology. We need technicians in our ministries who really know what it is to spend innovatively. A smart government is the key to finding your "mases and holes," three words that I put next to me, by spending very cleverly and taking Dutch business with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u215	Thank you for the support for keeping everything as much as possible within our national tricolor when it comes to procurement, especially for the important maritime sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u216	Thank you. Then four minutes for Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u217	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union welcomes the ambitions in the coalition agreement. We are heading for 49% less CO emissions by 2030 and we are aiming at 55%, together with other EU Member States. The Netherlands will be a member of the EU's leading group. This Minister has already shown this at the Bonn climate summit in mid-November, and yesterday the Prime Minister spoke out clearly in Paris for the 55% target. The Christian Union welcomes this Minister's approach to achieving a broadly supported climate law and a climate and energy agreement. It is good that the Minister wants to use the power of the Dutch economy and society and it is good that he is open to alternatives, such as CO2 storage, as long as we are going to achieve the goal effectively. Mr. Chairman. Important measures in the coal agreement are the minimum prices for CO and the closure of coal plants. Coal plants cause bad air and its CO cannons. In the Minister's tonne-hunt, it is therefore obvious to close the coal power stations quickly. Previously, the Council of State recommended that a closure law be proposed for the five remaining coal plants. Is the Minister prepared to send such a closure law to the Chamber quickly, including time schedule? Mr. Chairman. In 2016, the Dik-Faber/Van Veldhoven motion on making agreements with the financial sector and more transparency on the climate impact of loans and investments was adopted. I call on the Minister to return to the table with the financial sector, particularly in view of the strengthened objectives of the government agreement, but also because 12 large banks and pension funds have issued a clear statement this week on greening investments and the settlement of climate damage. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I come to a subject that concerns us all, the gas extraction in Groningen. "This is a Dutch government failure of non-Dutch proportions," is a statement by the minister towards the Groningers. The Christian Union therefore welcomes the attention paid to Groningen in the coalition agreement and the reduction of dependence on natural gas. There will also be a damages protocol to be borne by the region and a public compensation fund. Damage handling and reinforcement are completely independent of the NAM. Last week the EZK committee was on a working visit in Groningen; others also recalled that. The stories of the inhabitants are intriguing. For example, there are houses that are reinforced, but do not go off the gas. Does the Minister agree that we should work with work? How's he gonna handle this? I also noticed the difference between buying and renting. Who will appeal to the housing corporations if they no longer invest in maintenance, pending demolition or reinforcement? Sometimes the fungus is on the walls. That's impossible, isn't it? The social impact is enormous. Those who are well-spoken will find their way, but who stands up for those who are less well-spoken? Who guides them in the process of new construction or reinforcement? Now there's conflict in villages and neighborhoods. The huge renovation also threatens to lose the identity of Groningen. Can we ensure that this operation makes Groningen stronger and offers prospects for the future? In the coalition agreement, attention is also paid to accessible legal aid, the arbitrators, the elaboration of a buy-back scheme, extra money for care professionals and mental caregivers and continuation of the Erfgoedstof. How's the Minister going with this? Mr. Chairman. Clean energy generation by households and energy cooperatives is growing rapidly. Now that the cost of solar energy is falling, it is good that the netting system is being transformed. This will stimulate energy storage and make the use of renewable energy more effective. However, there are concerns about investment security. Can the Minister promise that there will be a flexible transitional arrangement so that citizens can trust and continue to invest in solar panels? Mr. Chairman. The government agreement also mentions building-related financing and a separate energy co-operative scheme that makes it easier for residents to participate in renewable energy projects in their immediate vicinity. Can the Minister explain how and when these new arrangements will enter into force? Mr. Chairman. Previously, the Schouten/Nijboer motion was adopted on the financing of cooperatives with a social purpose, including on the development of plans. The problem is that energy cooperatives have difficulty covering risky investments. The previous Minister of EZ would consult with the energy cooperatives on the possibility of contributing to risk-sharing through Invest-NL. Can the Minister tell us more about this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw attention to innovation. The Blue Energy project has been appointed National Icon. An administrative agreement was reached on a pilot at Katwijk between the Rijnland High Council, the province of Zuid-Holland and the municipalities of Katwijk and Noordwijk; I think D66 also talked about this. Will the Empire join in? Mr. Chairman. Geothermals and other innovations are still in their infancy, but geothermals are very promising. Ground heat baskets are realized at a depth of one to four metres within a day at relatively low costs and without long permit procedures. Does the Minister know this technique and see a bright future for this? Mr. Chairman. I would like to wish both directors every success in working with each other on a bright future for our children and grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u218	Thank you. Two more groups to go. I call Mr Van Raan of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u219	Mr President, the chair is not going up. But there's gonna be help from all sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u220	Mr Graus has put the chair out of operation for a moment, but it is there again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u221	The PVV fixed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u222	Mr. Graus again, huh? The man with the right hands!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u223	Mr. Chairman. For the first time, we are having a budget debate with the Minister for Climate Change. That is an historic fact. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. We have seen in the costly operation to rename the VenJ ministry to JenV that this cabinet attaches great importance to the order of the names with the most important ones. After all, justice as a basis for security. So economics is the basis for the climate. And that is the problem of this cabinet in a nutshell. Or is the Minister going to tell us it's not? The climate minister has a challenging job to do. All sectors and departments should contribute to achieving climate goals. The directors will therefore have to be kept up to date and must therefore be pulled out of the clutches of lobby clubs and business. Does the Minister have perseverance to move on? Or is he a toothless, but sympathetic business card? I'd like a jurisdictional description, please. D66 and the SP asked for that too. On balance, our economy is now largely unsustainably organised. If we stick to the current model, economy over climate, we'll kill the planet, says Kate Raworth, among others. Do you know him? Is the Minister familiar with that? And does the Minister agree? In this context, we have just seen the VVD show off our position on international rankings, such as competition and innovation. But then you should also know that our way of life requires 3.7 globes. Saying that you are innovative when you need it is, in our view, an old-fashioned, outdated interpretation of the concept of innovation. It's meaningless. Being at the top of competition lists while you consume 3.7 globes is actually the same as winning the skating contest with doping and being proud of it. The way we now look at concepts such as innovation and competition is outdated and misplaced and puts us on the wrong track. We're looking at the wrong lists. I'd like a reflection from the Minister. At the Bonn Climate Summit, I saw the Minister make a good impression on the announcement that the Netherlands will make an effort in Europe to increase the European reduction target to 55%. Of course, we are very much in favour of that, really. However, when we look at what plans are on the table, it is also very nice that the Minister who agrees with us is still far from running a race. We agree on that; that is what he said. After all, our carbon budget is running out at a rapid rate, while the decline in CO is far too slow. It is remarkable that the Minister focuses on measures that cannot be introduced tomorrow, but only in the longer term, while he does not take the measures he can introduce in the short term. That is a very special contradiction. Climate law cases are now taking place in more and more countries in Ireland, Belgium, New Zealand, the United States, Switzerland and the Netherlands, as concerned citizens go to court because their government's climate policy is insufficient to protect their living environment. That is a violation of human rights. In this context, we will also continue to fight for international legislation to criminalise ecocide, which is the widespread destruction of the environment. Our question is whether the Minister is going to help us. After all, the old adage that this cabinet adheres to, which belongs to a strong market as small a government as possible, has become obsolete. We actually see that the stronger the market, the stronger the government must be. That's the new hopeful story: the stronger the market is, fine, the stronger the government must be. For the government has for years given the policy away to large companies and polluting sectors. In the documentary Beerput Nederland there was talk of convicted environmental criminals who are allowed to contribute to the policy. This is how far we've allowed it to go: structural abuses. It is the task of the Chamber to check the state of affairs. We know there's gonna be a letter about that. The reason we're talking about it here is because it's about economic crimes. As far as we are concerned, we need to get to the bottom of it. We are therefore announcing a motion for a parliamentary inquiry into this matter, all the more so because it does not seem to be on its own. We would like to draw the Minister's attention to two sectors that have had a blind focus on economic growth and have become all-consuming monsters, two sectors that make our carbon budget disappear like snow for the sun. Two guesses: aviation and agriculture. Schiphol Airport and the KLM have been given the space to make the airport Schiphol Airport grow into the erupting airport it is now, by adapting to change. The Safety Research Council states that airport safety is seriously at stake. That's not nothing. And there are plenty of preparations being made to go to the 500,000, while the report I'm referring to is written on 480,000 aircraft movements. Economy over other interests. The expected growth of the aviation industry thus brings us back to climate change, the conclusion of Paul Peeters of TU Delft was that it would make it impossible to achieve the climate goals. No technical or financial measure is going to compensate for this. And what is the policy this cabinet is pursuing? Keep going. Growth, growth, growth. And a shrink is needed. In other words, if you want to achieve the climate targets, the number of flight movements must reach 300,000. That's what was suggested. We would like to hear how the Minister is going to take this up and consider a motion on this point. And then there's agriculture. Lobbyists of the livestock and meat industries have been contributing to agricultural policy for many years. That's not really a secret. Exactly ten years ago, our scientific agency released the documentary Meat the Truth. Since 2007, many reports have been produced showing that livestock farming is one of the largest polluters in the world. In order to achieve the climate targets, the number of animals needs to be significantly reduced. This week, the FAIRR financial think tank found that a levy on meat is inevitable, inevitably in view of the contribution of the sector to climate change and public health problems. And what is the policy that this cabinet has announced? Agricultural emissions must be dealt with by technical measures alone. The Economic and Social Council wrote: "In recent years, a multitude of initiatives have been taken to tackle the problems and promote sustainability. Real breakthroughs have not yet led to this." And here it comes. In calculating the effects of possible measures for achieving the climate targets, the PBL was given the explicit mandate not to look, just not to look, at volume measures in livestock farming or at transition in behaviour, in consumption and in transport. So don't go to the aircraft industry. The reduction of livestock and the impact of flies therefore appear to be taboo in advance. I see that the rulers have a moment to discuss this insight. Thank you. It looks like I'm saying it looks like some departments are trying to change reports when they're made. This is where it's happening in advance, it seems. It's called match fixing. Is the Minister prepared to have the PBL look again at these effects? If we continue on the old road, we have four years to go before we have used up our carbon budget. However, measures that will lead to a substantial reduction in emissions are either set aside or introduced only after this cabinet period. And we need to get to work now to prevent us again from achieving the goals set, especially if we are going to achieve the 55% reduction that everyone, including us, has welcomed. The first steps, that's the great thing, we can make today. I'll call you three. By making a plan for the reduction of aviation and the reduction of livestock: a flight tax and a meat tax. By setting up a standard vegetarian menu at government institutions, requiring a dish of meat. So no meat is the norm and meat is the exception. And three: by opening public subsidies, public stimulus funds for top sectors, and grants in general only to sustainable projects that are not harmful to humans, animals and nature. By embracing the adagium: we do something sustainable or we don't. Because we don't want this minister to become the new king of Easter Island. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u224	Perfect on time. Then we are going to listen to Mr Wassenberg for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u225	Mr President, my paper said six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u226	On my paper three, but I'd be happy to make it six if you'd like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u227	Yes. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet aims to reduce CO emissions by 49% by 2030. But if we fixate on the CO reduction, however important it is, we are failing in reality. Then it can happen that measures that are not sustainable are still the backbone of energy policy and receive substantial subsidies. I'm gonna explain that. We need to emit less CO and there is every reason to do so at the source: use less energy and generate the energy we do use sustainably. But that is not the line of the cabinet, because the cabinet is fully committed to the status quo, to the fight against symptom, such as underground CO storage. The Party sees no advantage for the Animals. It sustains our addiction to fossil energy, it costs a lot of energy, it brings with it risk and it demands a constant, continuous effort. There's nothing sustainable about that. Mr. Chairman. A second example. The government agreement states that this government will continue to subsidise biomass by 2025 in coal-fired power stations. But by now, we know that this biomass supplement is in practice that trees, especially trees, are not a solution to CO emissions, but rather a contribution to it. There is no big difference between the combustion of trees and coal. With biomass, we are burning up the forest today and with coal we are burning up the forests 300 million years ago. The burning of trees is no more sustainable than the burning of coal, because trees that have been harvested no longer capture CO. And by burning up those trees, we're gonna emit extra CO. And yet, we've agreed that the burning of trees is CO-neutral and that's the end of the matter. A paper reality has been created. Mr. Chairman. The focus on CO reduction also gives the cabinet an excuse to neglect the energy saving and renewable energy objectives. Two objectives, which we have to date achieved badly and which are very profitable. For example, energy saving is seriously lagging behind and everything really needs to be taken out of the box in order to gather 14% of renewable energy by 2020, which is a requirement of Europe. This focus on CO reduction has the risk that the routes of sustainability and savings will not be sufficiently explored. For example, we see hardly any plans for renewable energy in the coalition agreement. The Minister indicated that the financing of the CO2 storage will not come from the SDE+ scheme. But can he guarantee that the storage of CO2 will not be at the expense of promoting renewable energy in any other way or that the subsidy will not be spent on a paper reality, namely manure fermentation? Our country produces 80 billion kilos of manure per year. That's almost 5,000 kilos per Dutchman or 40 bathtubs full of manure per person. But manure fermentation is not a sustainable solution to the manure problem. It does not contribute to our sustainable energy supply. To the 150 manure digesters that the Netherlands now counts, in many cases everything has to be added before energy can be generated: grass, maize, waste. Moreover, the little energy that this manure produces does not fall out of the sky either. To keep our bio-industry running, large quantities of soya and maize are imported annually from South America. That whole process costs 62 petajoules a year. That's as much as 5 million households using power. But because the animal feed comes from the other side of the world, our climate balance remains clean. The manure fermentation is actually one big money laundering operation. For residents, the manure digesters also bring with them a lot of stench, which they can suffer from for days. Headache and nausea are the result. People literally get sick of manure fermenters. Manure fermentation smells literally and figuratively. Thus, with the manure fermentation, CO storage and biomass refueling, the cabinet invests in symptom control. We continue on the familiar road, even though we know that road is dead. Meanwhile, the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom of the list of European countries when it comes to the share of renewable energy. The cabinet does not encourage residents to generate energy themselves, for example through the netting scheme for solar power. If buyers of solar panels have the certainty that they can return the electricity for the market rate over a period of, for example, seven years, this will work very low threshold. For example, anyone who buys solar panels in 2018 can salad until at least 2025, and who buys solar panels in 2019 can salad until 2026. Can the Minister respond to that? I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. Mr. Chairman. There is also insufficient attention for energy saving. Making our homes climate-neutral is too slow. We do not know how the cabinet is going to tackle this huge task. Rental homes receive 100 million euros a year in total. That's about 50 euros per house. For this, the owner can buy a few trip strips and a few LED lights. And how is the working group on building-related financing progressing? This gives property owners a chance to make their home truly sustainable. Here, too, we need to move forward. Mr President, I will conclude. Energy transition is about more than just CO reduction. It is also about energy saving. It's about making homes climate-neutral. It's really about renewable energy. Wind at sea is being rolled out. Now it is up to this minister to make it attractive for private individuals to produce energy themselves during this cabinet period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u228	Thank you. The next speaker would be Mr Dijkgraaf, but he has just sent me a message to confirm that he is ill. He's home with the flu. We wish him well. The last speaker from the Chamber for today is Mr Öztürk of the DENK Group. He brought a box full of lyrics. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u229	Mr President, thank you, today we are discussing the budget of the new Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. First of all, I would like to congratulate the new minister, Eric Wiebes, on his new post. Together with Mark Rutte and Sander Dekker, he is the only one who served in Rutte II. That's good. I would also like to congratulate the new Secretary of State, Mona Keijzer, a former colleague of ours, on her new position. Welcome to our midst. The DENK Group has taken note of the EZK budget for 2018 and the coalition agreement. As you know, DENK always looks critically at the proposals of the government and the cabinet, but DENK also wants to be constructive and binding. That is why we set aside the budget our own vision for the future. Our vision is called economics, diversity as strength. I would like to hand over a number of copies to the directors and to my colleagues. I would like the directors to respond to all our proposals in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u230	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u231	If you're a small fraction, you have to be smart and creative. This is also very important in the economy. When you start small, you have to be creative. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has changed, the Netherlands is still changing and the Netherlands will continue to change. That is a process that has been going on for centuries. The Zuiderzee changed into the IJsselmeer. Grey PTT phones turned into trendy smartphones. The horse trams disappeared and the DAF car made way for the Tesla. Monocultural society changed into multicultural society. It is the inevitable course of history. But some still try to fight the flow of history. With their message to turn the clock back, they strive for a false past that has never really been there. In doing so, they are not doing our country and our economy a good service. By not recognising the new reality, the economy is being harmed. DENK's group wants diversity and economy to be better linked. Research shows that there is strong evidence that diversity can strengthen the economy and lead to more innovation, jobs and growth. But then there must also be the right framework conditions for this. I hear from colleagues that we need 100,000 professionals. Then you must also have a climate in the Netherlands that allows you to bring professionals to the Netherlands and keep them here. Mr. Chairman. That is why we want to make a number of concrete proposals. DENK wants to achieve the following. We would like to receive a response from the rulers. DENK wants a knowledge centre for Diversity Economy and Multicultural Entrepreneurship, DMO. DMO should provide faster and better insight into laws and regulations, subsidies, schemes and funding for entrepreneurs from a variety of backgrounds. DENK wants a 10% diversity quota to get more people with a migrant background at the top of the big companies in the Netherlands. That's only 2% right now. The number of women at the top of business was also low, but a lot has been done in recent years. If we go for it together, we can get a lot of diversity in the top of the business world. The new state bank, Invest-NL, needs to be expanded. Instead of a capital of EUR 2.5 billion, it must receive a capital of EUR 5 billion in the coming years. Diversity economy is added to Invest-NL as a fourth focus domain. Other state-owned banks and state-owned participations are also used for this purpose. DENK wants the government to make arrangements in a Central Banks Consultation with the largest Dutch banks on additional lending for SMEs, similar to the commitments made with ING Bank in 2009. DENK aims to improve conditions for SMEs with tax advantages. DENK is therefore in favour of increasing the SME profit exemption and extending the Small Business Scheme. The bureaucracy and administrative burden must also be reduced. The top sectors, the big companies, have been helped in the past with billions of euros in grants. Minister, is it true that we have already given some EUR 7 billion to large companies since 2011? As far as DENK is concerned, the starters are now up. DENK wants start-up vouchers of €750 per entrepreneur. This allows start-ups to purchase services free of charge. Dutch pension funds can lend their money to, among other things, state bank Invest-NL. Invest-NL can select the right investment projects and help the pension funds achieve a good return. Of the total capital of Dutch pension funds of around EUR 1,400 billion, only 12.5% is invested in the Netherlands. Isn't this right, Minister? This percentage must be substantially up, willingly or unwillingly. Perhaps we should put this in a survey to the pension participants. Almost all of us are. Most of us have no idea what our money is invested in and no say in it either. Of course, that's not like this anymore. Then I come to the issue of discriminatory entrepreneurs. We also saw today that a landlord discriminates through a real estate agent. Unfortunately. But we must also tackle those discriminatory entrepreneurs. As far as DENK is concerned, discriminatory entrepreneurs enter the racism register. This means that they are no longer eligible for public service contracts for a certain period of time. They pay, like other people who discriminate, a xenophobic tax of €1,000 per discriminatory ruling, act or behavior. A criminal conviction, criminal order or transaction leads to the collection of this xenophobic tax by the Tax Administration. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the thoughts of the PVV. I have just talked about the business climate and climate. The ideas of the PVV if you can call Geert's A4's so, "We lose jobs and growth." Because an inhospitable entrepreneurial environment is bad for our economy. DENK therefore wants the government to come up with an action plan to create a welcoming business environment. DENK wants an investigation into the negative Wilders effect on our economy. DENK wants the Central Planning Bureau to make a social cost-benefit analysis of the Wilders effect. For example, the economic costs of the judgment, hardening and roughing can be expressed in figures. Can the Minister or the Secretary of State ask the Central Planning Office for such an SMEA? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Both the economy and society benefit from a considerable amount of destructive, debris and softening, or perhaps desperation, as we had in the 1990s by Minister Margreeth de Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u232	A question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u233	It's more of a comment. I'd like to know what this cost. You might have been able to save an SME. Have you paid any rights to Asterix and Obelix? You used drawings. I hope you did. Mr. Chairman, what matters is this. Firstly, Mr Wilders cannot defend himself here, because Geert, as you call him, is our group chairman, Geert Wilders, who once entered the Chamber at once with nine seats and not with two or three seats. But I also want to say that I think it's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u234	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u235	Mr Öztürk has taken it up for the SMEs all the time. I started by saying that many SMEs, which you claim to represent, value the PVV as much as the entrepreneurial party. This is partly due to our SME test. So that is a very large part of the entrepreneurs; and you should respect that. I just want to give you that: respect that. Johan Cruijff once said: we are more disadvantaged than any foreigner. And it's really starting to be that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u236	We've had the Floriade in Limburg. During the Floriade, a number of entrepreneurs told me that it was also in the Limburg press that they did not come to the Floriade because of Wilders. Wilders was in the towel construction with a number of parties, VVD and CDA. It has an effect; there are countries and companies that do not invest in the Netherlands because a climate has been created here by your leader, Geert Wilders. I think we should find out. I think the citizen has a right to know what Wilders' damage is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u237	But the weird thing is, with all due respect, we're sitting here with 20 seats. We have become the second largest party in the Netherlands. Please don't worry. The Dutch decide who will be a big party here. That is not certain, Mr Öztürk. I would like to leave it at that, but what I find very strange is that you have really offended me here a few times. When I say something about animal welfare and ritual slaughter, you compare it to Nazi practices. You're putting on the big pants right now. I think that's incredible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u238	What's your question, Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u239	Mr Öztürk has indeed been able to find three quotes from anti-PVVs. You might have found another 100, but we get thousands, thousands of e-mails a year about how rude your party deals with elected representatives here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u240	What's your question? Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u241	No, that's a comment. You should look in the mirror more often. You're projecting. And that's a disease, you know that? You're gonna have to go get help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u242	Mr President, this is your partymate, I get it, but what is the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u243	That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u244	No, but you do allow all the space. What matters to me is: what happens when you use a Polish notification point? We need hundreds of thousands of Poles to achieve our construction objective. If you create a climate that everyone with a different origin is actually not welcome in the Netherlands... we need expats in this country to preserve our economy. That's what I'm talking about. Those people are not coming to the Netherlands because of the climate your party has created. They may be 20 seats, but the damage to our country needs to be calculated in our opinion. Citizens are entitled to that. Mr. Chairman. I would like to hear from the directors how we can establish a good business climate in the Netherlands. So much for the economics section. I come now to the section on climate and energy. According to DENK, as a society, we have a climate debt. We therefore support the government's ambition to reduce CO emissions by 49% by 2030. But we do not support the way the cabinet wants to do this. In order to achieve 49% reduction in emissions by 2030, we need to reduce emissions by at least 41 megatons of CO. The detailed plans only account for half of those 41 megatons. For the most part, therefore, this cabinet does not yet know how it intends to solve the climate problem. That is why I am asking the Minister: when can we at the latest be clear about the plans? When will the coal power stations be shut down? In what way? When are new cars emission-free? When will this be decided? Climate policy also contains too many uncovered cheques. For example, no funds are reserved for the closure of coal power stations. How will the Minister cover the uncovered cheques in the future? Another concern in climate policy is that this cabinet wants to store CO underground. It's called "CCS" in The Hague jargon. The cabinet wants to achieve 20 out of 41 megatons of emissions reduction with CCS, but the proof that CCS is really going to work is thin as thin as the evidence for abolishing the dividend tax. We would like to have more clarity on climate issues, so that citizens know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u245	You've been half a minute, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u246	Then I'm gonna end this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u247	Then thank you for your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-13-tweedekamer-13.u248	I thank all the participants for their contribution. Tomorrow at 5:30 p.m., we're gonna listen to the rulers. They go on for an hour, I think, to serve everyone. We wish them much strength.
