ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the two directors, Mrs Ploumen, Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and Mr Van Dam, Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. I would also like to welcome the spokesmen. We have two maiden speeches today. Mrs Van Weerdenburg of the PVV and Mrs Diks van GroenLinks are going to make their maiden speech today. Wait, Mr. Hijink of the SP is also going to make his maiden speech. I hear Minister Ploumen shouting that she has only one bunch of flowers, but I'm sure the SP will be happy to share those bunch of flowers. I suggest we suspend for congratulations when all three maiden speeches are held. Then all the Members of all the groups who will be present will be able to congratulate the speakers on their first appearance in this plenary. Let's get started. Speaking time is five minutes per group. We are with many speakers, so I hope that the spokesmen will take some account of the interruptions, also in view of the agenda for the rest of the day. I should like to give Mrs Ouwehand of the Animal Party the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Our generation faces a number of challenges. The largest is, as far as the Party for Animals and many people are concerned, keeping the earth viable. Climate change is a huge challenge for us. Even the Cabinet agrees. Another major problem is the loss of citizens' confidence in politics; the gap between citizens and politics and the loss of confidence that politicians really stand up for a society that serves citizens and is fair, sustainable and good in the long term. Maybe someone here in the room at the canvassing, ringing the doorbell at people's homes or on the street in response to the question "what are you doing?" It has ever been heard, but I have never spoken to anyone who felt that there is far too little free trade and that this is of great concern. No, people are always talking about social inequality, injustice and sustainability. So why are we putting our energy into creating even more free trade, when that is demonstrably not what we need? The TTIP treaty was declared dead by the American president. The Dutch government keeps it in the middle a bit. Looking at the actions of the European Commission, we are not confident that TTIP is actually buried. We want a clear statement from the cabinet that TTIP is in the refrigerator and does not come out of it. Actually, the coffin needs to be nailed shut. Another development we see in the European Commission is that there seems to be a taboo on words or abbreviations such as TTIP and CETA. At least this is how it seems that these treaties as a whole, because there is no support for them in the population, are no longer to be expressed and negotiated, but to achieve the same result by means of sub-treaties. That too is one of the reasons why citizens have no confidence in it. Can the cabinet promise it won't go along with that? Can the Cabinet not undertake to do this in other devious ways, through back doors and sub-treaties, if this Chamber says: no TTIP, CETA and other free trade agreements? It is relevant that the Commissioner from our own country, Mr Timmermans, wrote a reflection paper. In fact, it states that free trade is not yet sustainable enough and is not fair enough. Then it wouldn't be obvious to continue with a treaty like CETA, would it? Can the government promise that this ratification will not take place and that we will also be putting into effect parts of it on 1 July? If the cabinet is not prepared to do so, I would like to hear what the logic is to think, while there is justified criticism of the fairness of the free trade agreements, that we are going to talk about it, but to continue in the meantime. We have invited the Secretary of State for Agriculture because the major problem of the free trade agreements falls to a very large extent in agriculture. It is not for nothing that all the farmers say: the free trade, the treaties with America, Canada and other states, are going to cut our throats. The result is that products that are produced under lower standards than those that are held by our farmers simply enter the market. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to take this signal from farmers and farmers' organisations seriously. I would like to ask the Secretary of State for Agriculture how the sustainable objectives set for agriculture will be achieved if free trade agreements are to be concluded. To that question, the cabinet has not yet presented the beginning of an answer. After all, it is not just about the danger of the current differences in standards, it is about the standards with which our farmers have to work and not about the farmers in America and Canada, while their products are allowed to enter our country, but above all about the ambitions we have for agriculture. I would like to highlight the climate, but also animal welfare and biodiversity. These ambitions will have to be further developed in concrete policies in the coming years. Then we cannot get the answer here that it is not going to work because of the free trade, because of the earning model that is in danger. How is the government going to realise the sustainable ambitions for agriculture, which are well on paper, in the light of its ambition to push through these free trade agreements? Finally, TTIP must actually be buried. If we do not, I really wonder how the Paris climate agreement can be implemented. We see that the American President says: we are not going to abide by that. Are we going to give companies in America that do not have to comply with climate agreements the benefit of our market, while we are trying to keep to the agreements? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mrs Ouwehand makes a flaming argument on behalf of the Animal Party. She says that there must be confidence in politics and that people now have no confidence in politics. Can it indicate to what extent we in the Chamber are responsible for this by presenting realistic facts? How does her own speech and the actions of the Party for Animals relate to this? The Animal Party organises a manifesto to carry CETA for burial. CETA is a treaty concluded with a very decent country like Canada. It does not reduce any standard. That treaty is extremely important for more jobs and, in particular, for fair trade. How does the Party for Animals contribute to confidence in politics when it puts away such a thing as a great danger to welfare and the environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	Well, first of all because that is true and also by strongly criticizing Europe's undermining behavior as we know it. The European Commission is largely free to take decisions that affect citizens in all areas. It is about their own democratic participation, the possibility of our Parliament............................................................................................................................................................................. That's gonna bite with a trade agreement like Canada. Because if we have agreed with Canada that Canadian products can enter our market and we want to help our producers towards more sustainability, doesn't the VVD feel like it's going to get hurt? It's always the VVD that says: yes, but, we're not gonna save that, because that's not fair. I would like to call on the VVD to work on genuine democratic participation and not to go blindly behind the agenda of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	I haven't been in the Chamber lately, but Mrs. Ouwehand has. As she knows, Minister Ploumen has spoken extensively about many aspects of CETA that could be better and fairer, such as ICS instead of ISDS and not lowering standards. Minister Ploumen has gone to Europe and these matters are settled. Is Mrs Ouwehand prepared to tell this story to Dutch citizens as well? Then they can look at politics with confidence instead of their fear. Because that's what the Party for Animals is doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	I would like to say a little bit more about replacing that terrible ISDS. This means that there is a different legal system for multinationals and citizens. Citizens simply have to abide by the rule of law. We were appalled by the ISDS, but the solution put forward by Minister Ploumen does not go far enough as far as we are concerned. The multilateral arbitration court, too, continues to have different legal systems: a separate regime for multinationals and simply the rule of law in which citizens have to respect the rules properly. I can't believe the VVD says that this will restore citizens' confidence in politics. We are creating a welfare state for multinationals. It may be that the VVD is in favour of this, but be honest in saying that as far as citizens are concerned, it does not matter to the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	I have a brief question for Mrs Ouwehand. Does it share the view that with the ICS at least we have improved on the ISDS?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	No, I don't want to put it that positively. It's a little less bad at best. I draw D66's attention to its own green course and the climate change that D66 really needs to be addressed. It should look at these free trade agreements in this light. Then we can only come to the conclusion that this task is so enormous that we should not want anything that is going to stand in the way of this climate approach, even if it is a straw, because otherwise we are not going to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	So, Mrs Ouwehand doesn't think it's a good step in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	Again, it's a little less bad, but I won't take over the positive "all-come-good-vibe" of D66. We will not do that until it really works out, and that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about TTIP today, while discussions on this issue have been still in progress in Brussels since November 2016. When this debate was requested on 24 February 2015, it was a topical issue and important, but now? Since the last postponement of this debate in April, nothing has happened regarding TTIP. Perhaps it has only become clear that a trade agreement with the US is not in it at the moment and with this President. After the last round of negotiations in November, which was already very difficult at the time, the European Commission decided to wait and see which President the Americans would elect. In the election campaigns Trump turned out to be a very protectionist tone and expressed himself negatively about the free trade agreements. The elections are now history and the choice of the American people has not made it easier for the TTIP negotiations. It is now completely unclear what the Americans are going to do with TTIP, especially as a result of the G7. The Euro-American negotiations have therefore been suspended without any formal decision to do so. We seem to have reached an impasse. The CDA would like to first receive an update from the minister of relations between Europe and the US under this trade agreement. What kind of planning is on the table? What steps are we going to take? When, for example, should the next round of negotiations take place? Is he even gonna be there? I would like to receive an assessment from the Minister as to whether TTIP still has any right to exist at all. The position of the majority of the Chamber is now clear. I say once again that the CDA considers it very important that European standards and standards should be the starting point in the negotiations on trade agreements, including TTIP. The Netherlands is constantly looking for new trading partners. Free trade and good trade agreements are essential for our open economy and certainly for the Netherlands as an exporting country. For the CDA, it is essential that a trade agreement is created on an equal footing and contributes to a level playing field. In addition, where sectors are affected by a trade agreement, the State should develop accompanying policies to support those sectors. We must keep a close eye on a number of sectors, because you always have losers and winners. The CDA is therefore in favour of free trade. It brings growth and jobs and strengthens our Western geopolitical trade interests, but we should not be blind to the negative effects of trade agreements. The CDA believes that the government will then provide protection against this hard side of globalisation. All this has already been said and recorded in motions for resolutions. I would also like to address another aspect of the trade agreements and the contacts between Europe and the US. The world's relations are changing at a rapid pace. Trade treaties increasingly serve as a political tool to make their own standards global or to use as an economic boycott. The geopolitical value of trade agreements such as TTIP, but also TPP (Trans-Pacific Partnership), seems to increase every month. The US has terminated the trade agreement with Asia. How will Europe respond to this? Now that the Americans have fallen away, does Europe see new opportunities to make a fist and give TPP a boost? If we do not, there is a chance that we will have the check-up in the future and that there are Chinese standards. With the withdrawal of TPP by the US, Europe has come to the centre of the East-West opposition. It is not for nothing that the negotiations on the trade agreement between Europe and Japan have accelerated. Trade brings countries closer together and stimulates peace and security. Trade can contribute to economic development and thus create stability. On this basis, good governance and the rule of law can grow. I would like a response from the Minister to the role of the Netherlands and Europe in this global game of trade. I would ask her to inform the Chamber very carefully about the progress of TTIP and other trade agreements currently under way in Europe. Mr President, I see a number of people standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	Sure, I saw that, too. You were almost at the end of your speech and we can now take all the questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	I can tell from the CDA, again in this speech, that it really is in a split. On the one hand, the CDA is for free trade and for this type of treaty, but on the other hand, Mr Amhaouch acknowledges in his speech that there are major problems, especially for the target group for which the CDA always likes to stand up, namely farmers and farmers in the Netherlands. Food quality and food safety can be demanded, but of course it is also about food production, both here and in Canada and the US. In America and Canada, for example, there are quite different requirements for the use of pesticides and the cost of agricultural land is different. Then Mr Amhaouch cannot insist that this is going to work out well for these sectors. In particular, poultry farming and pig farming are already saying that they will go overboard because they cannot compete against it. How does Mr Amhaouch react to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	The Netherlands is the world's second exporter in the field of agro. So we are already benefiting from these trade agreements today. The CDA likes to close it off, but on an equal footing. LTO (Agriculture and Gardening Organisation) is for CETA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement). Even poultry farmers have gone along with this over time. According to them, it is now well regulated within CETA and we have to make the same kind of agreements within TTIP as within CETA. We have to listen to that. CETA is therefore a very good treaty, which is also supported by LTO. Another point is how we look at this. Europe, with 700 million inhabitants, concludes a treaty with Canada, which has 33 million inhabitants. We are the world's second exporter. Are we afraid that we will not be able to make good agreements? Are we afraid, as I have heard a colleague say, that we are overwhelmed by things that are not in order? I have said before in an AO: if we could not have concluded a good trade agreement with Canada, with CETA, with whom would we be able to do so in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	I think that's a fair question. This is what I'm talking about. It makes sense, doesn't it? In the United States, there are different rules for farmers. They need to take less account of animal welfare and the use of dangerous poisons. They have cheaper employees in their companies. They can put young people to work from the age of 14. Land prices are much lower. How will that work for competition if our farmers have to compete with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u16	We are only going to enter into trade agreements if TTIP is there, we will assess it on its merits, which are based on an equivalent and sustainable basis. You mention a number of things that I cannot all check on facts, but we will assess trade agreements on these criteria. That is what we have done with CETA. If TTIP gets loose, so will we. We will not accept that the Americans are going to impose on us what we want in the opposite direction: to make the world more sustainable and to drive more sustainable agricultural and agricultural products into the world. There's our chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u17	Of course, it is one of the key points of this debate, but I am going to challenge you all if you can keep the interruptions short. I am sure Mrs Ouwehand will set a good example here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u18	That's a good try, Mr. Chairman, I'll do my best! I think it is important to define this in the CDA, and I invite the spokesman to do so, which is precisely what is important for that party to represent, because there is quite a difference between actually looking at farmers and at industry. LTO, as we have seen in the horrible dairy drama that is now taking place, no longer represents the interests of farmers, we can conclude. And also the CDA alderman in Gemert-Bakel literally admits: if it is up to us, there will be substantially fewer farmers, but much more industry, much more animals. So the question is how the CDA weighs the impact of these free trade agreements. Are they about the industry, which might thrive on what I'm wondering? Or are they about the individual farmer, who needs to be given room for the sustainability he wants to work on himself and who wants to get rid of the power of the Rabobank? In short, how much does the CDA weigh?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u19	I have a colleague, Mr Geurts, who, in my opinion, is working day and night for the farmers in the Netherlands. CETA is not just about farmers and not just about industry. It is an overall trade agreement, of which, of course, certain sectors will always benefit and others will be less losers or losers. That is why we have said: we want to keep an eye on accompanying policies when there are sectors which are very difficult to deal with. But you can't make a trade deal with just winners. There is no trade treaty just for farmers. We have a warm heart for farmers, whether they are in the agri-food sector, in horticulture or the livestock sector, that does not matter. That is why we have our people and that is why we are here every day, but CETA is wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u20	Oh, yeah. It's not just about farmers, but I know you don't have to go to the CDA for the climate, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u21	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u22	So I thought, the peasant voice is one of the pillars on which the CDA rests. But the spokesman will have to admit that's not what LTO says he likes. We are now seeing the consequences of this in the terrible tragedy in dairy farming, where farmers say: I am being pricked here by my own organisation. So I'm gonna ask you again. For the CDA, is the importance of individual farmers now an ideal to which it holds, or does that party say: that's just one of the interests, and if LTO likes it, then we're going for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u23	We read yesterday and read today that someone across the sea called Trump probably wants to withdraw his signature under the climate agreement. The CDA has also signed it in this Parliament. We are going for sustainability in the right way. That subject is also on the formation table, so I am far from standing up for climate or sustainability. That's what we're here for as a signatory. I believe that we also have the most sustainable agriculture in Europe or in the world. So if there are other or better countries that practice agriculture even more sustainably than the Netherlands, then I would like to hear that from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u24	That's what we're gonna do at another time. For the time being, we will first listen to Mr Bouali on behalf of the D66 Group, at least if you were ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u25	Just a quick word. I was just finishing up, Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to present to the Minister and the Secretary of State the final ruling of the European Court of Justice on the Singapore case. What does this mean in concrete terms for the trade agreements which are now in progress but which have not yet been formally concluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Bouali has the floor on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. In a previous life as a diplomat I have spent the past fifteen years passionately devoted myself to the BV Nederland. First of all, I saw that trade is essential for the prosperity and well-being of the Netherlands. That certainly applies to our country. 33% of our gross national product and 2.2 million jobs are directly dependent on trade and much larger rates are linked to trade. Only together in the European Union are we strong and will we have to ensure that we allow global trade and investment to take place on the basis of our standards and standards and not on the basis of the standards of emerging economies, such as China and Russia. China conducts a trade policy in which it delivers investment and infrastructure in exchange for raw materials and market access. There is no focus on the environment, human rights, democratisation or labour law. With trade agreements that address these issues, we will ensure that this becomes the norm in the area of global trade and investment at European level. Today's debate is about the trade agreement with the United States, but there are also negotiations with Japan, Mexico, India, Indonesia, Vietnam, China, Tunisia and Singapore. We can be brief about the trade agreement with the US. This debate was requested more than two years ago when negotiations on TTIP were in full swing. In the meantime, negotiations have been shut down for months. However, the day before yesterday we saw in the newspaper that the US Trade Minister, Mr Ross, said that he wanted to continue negotiating. Can the Minister state what possibilities it sees for the resumption of these negotiations and whether a trade agreement between the United States and the European Union is excluded? The other topical issue is the ruling of the European Court of Justice on the Singapore trade agreement. I am pleased that there is now clarity about the distribution of responsibilities between the EU on the one hand and the Member States on the other. The question now is how to ensure that the EU remains an important international player in the field of trade and that our high standards on the environment and human rights, for example, become the standard. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she looks at that. D66's position on trade is clear and clear. D66 is in favour of increasing economic cooperation with the rest of the world. Trade is essential for a country like the Netherlands. We do consider a number of things important as D66. For example, the Convention should also be good for SMEs. Ordinary people should start to notice the benefits. In any case, it must not lead to lower standards in the areas of the environment, food and labour. Still, as far as D66 is concerned, those standards can be raised. It must not undermine democratic decision-making. Retreating behind the dikes is certainly not an option for D66. It provides less jobs and less prosperity and does not help tackle climate change. Now that Trump has withdrawn from the Paris agreement in the US, the European Union must also take a firm lead. Trade is also needed for this. Danish windmills need to be sold all over the world and ensure that Dutch offshore companies can install them. This is how we create more jobs and more renewable energy. The same applies to aligning standards for electric cars. This can speed up the switch to electric driving. That's why you need international agreements. I will conclude with a question about a trade agreement that my group has often called attention to, namely the green freight agreement, a trade agreement aimed at promoting trade in environmental goods, such as solar panels, windmills and water treatment plants. It should be completed by last year. What is the status of this agreement and what is the status of the treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mrs Ouwehand has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u29	I hear D66 saying that environmental standards should not go down, even more so, that they should go up as far as D66 is concerned. I think the nation's hope is aimed at D66 for a lasting government agreement. But it does listen closely. Then what's the benchmark for D66? We have all kinds of ambitions for climate and sustainable agriculture on paper, even with this cabinet. It is, of course, necessary for us in the Netherlands and Europe to be able to take steps to achieve these ambitions. Does D66 have the feeling that CETA, for example, has completely left the room to do what is necessary for sustainability, without having discussions here that it will be difficult because Canada, for example, does not do it and gives our farmers a competitive disadvantage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u30	Indeed, I believe that agreements such as CETA, as a major economic bloc, as a European economic bloc, give us the opportunity to properly anchor these environmental standards. I believe that an agreement such as CETA is a good example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u31	So let me get this straight... It seems that D66 is going to rule. Then we will have that agreement later, because D66 is going to ratify it. At the first moment when the Party for Animals says that the sustainability in agriculture or the climate must be a little harder, we never get to hear from D66 and the rulers: yes, but that is not possible because then the earning model of that and that entrepreneur gets stuck. That is the promise, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u32	In any case, we will work towards international treaties or multilateral treaties that we conclude as the EU. You have my undertaking that we will look very closely at the standards we have and are also more standard-setting and that we will indicate very well where we set the standard in the field of the environment as the European Union, but also as the Netherlands. We do not want to change it down, but at least to leave it up or at an equal level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you very much. We're about to start the maiden speeches. That's three. We're gonna start with Mrs. Diks. You all know the rule: during a maiden speech, there must be no interruption. Mrs Diks will also have the opportunity to take a few minutes in addition to her input on the content of this debate to tell us about her own motivation. The same goes for Mrs Van Weerdenburg and then Mr Hijink. I would now like to give Mrs Diks the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the privilege of having my maiden speech on the consequences of TTIP, even though there are no documents for this debate, according to the minister in the freezer in the basement, the negotiations on it are unclear so far as the United States is concerned. But don't worry, because now I have the freedom to comment more generally on international trade agreements that promote ever-increasing globalisation. What the consequences of globalisation could be, I experienced as a child. I am a farmer's daughter and I grew up in Gelderland on a small dairy farm, which has made me very close to the scale increase in agriculture and its consequences in my youth. When the obligation to supply milk to the factory was introduced in 1978, which meant that milk could no longer be supplied in buses but only in milk-cooling tanks, my father was faced with the choice to invest heavily in his company or to switch with his company. He chose the latter and that's how I suddenly lived in my teenage years at a pig and pig farm. Why am I telling you this? Because the choice that my father stood for did not come from him, but from the choice that the Dutch dairy industry made for him in the context of the European common agricultural policy for scaling up. As a result, more and more small businesses were thrown out of the circle and larger companies could grow ever larger. For example, economic policy, trade agreements and agreements seem at first sight far from your bed, abstract and complex, but in practice they are legal constructs that directly influence ordinary men and women, companies and their actions. Big, bigger, biggest has not come to an end. For example, our food is increasingly produced on intensive livestock farms, so that Dutch producers can compete with imported food from other countries. For example, many evening meals have 30,000 transport kilometers on your plate. That may not be so crazy if you eat couscous with mango and dates and increase coffee with a chocolate, but those 30,000 kilometers of transport are also on your plate if you just eat potatoes, meat and vegetables. How amazing is it that this first meal is sometimes even cheaper than when you bought locally or regionally produced food? How is that possible? Globalisation, which often ignores external costs such as environmental pollution, human rights violations, far too low wages and unsafe production conditions. The current form of globalisation leads to a race to the bottom, which is impossible for small producers here and in developing countries, let alone to win. Free trade does lead to economic growth, but not always to more prosperity and well-being for all. GroenLinks wants protection from adverse effects of globalisation rather than merely pursuing economic growth, which ultimately affects humans, animals and climate. Unfortunately, TTIP does not seem to have been drafted from that point of view. The idea of advocates is that if the EU applies the same environmental, safety and social working conditions standards as the United States, we can collectively form a stronger block against emerging economies such as China and India. However, through the proposed dispute resolution mechanism, the Investment Court System or ICS, powerful multinationals can exert more direct influence on our policies than citizens and voters. That is a direction that GroenLinks does not envisage. The Economic and Social Committee also considers that the national court is the royal road. GroenLinks fully agrees with that. If a Member State in the EU or a State in the United States does not yet have a highly developed and well-functioning legal system, the Netherlands should encourage this development rather than having commercial law passed through third parties in a shadowy arbitration court. Are the benefits of international free trade not important to GroenLinks? Yeah, I do. GroenLinks wants to protect and bring more prosperity, not only in the Netherlands and Western Europe, but worldwide, with good economic policies and good trade agreements and agreements, human beings, animals and climates. How can we enjoy our wealth if we know that others are actually paying the price today? The idea of TTIP's SER as a gold standard sounds beautiful, but of course it doesn't yield anything if it turns out to be cheaply gilded afterwards. That is why we must encourage others to work at the level of EU standards for the environment, safety and social working conditions. I see that, with a paraphrase on Jacob Slicher's famous call, as a modern form of "don't let it be thankful after pitting, the owner of land, air and water with the skins and the boxes." A good start is the Environmental Goods Agreement, the EAEC, on the lifting of import duties specifically on goods that are demonstrably good for the environment. Bonus always works better than malus or fine. Can this not also be done with products that meet high standards of animal welfare or are circular, for example? How's the cabinet in there? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, such a direction should be the future and could give a shift in the assumption of President Trump, for example, that where one wins economically, the other always loses by definition. We want international trade agreements that benefit people, animals and climate rather than just multinationals or a few. Then globalisation would lead to a world with many more winners and many less losers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you very much. I should like to congratulate you from this place. After all the maiden speeches have taken place, I will suspend for the congratulations by all. We have three maiden speeches today. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations, too, to my fellow maiden speakers. Today we are debating the possible consequences of a treaty that is not yet in place. Negotiations have stopped since last year, reportedly because the Americans did not want to move sufficiently. That was under the Obama administration. There is now a new president, who uses America first as a motto and leaves no doubt that in all cases he will put the interests of his own countrymen first. Very refreshing actually; we only had such a leader. The day before yesterday, the US Secretary of State for Trade announced that the United States would like to return to the negotiating table. He saw a possible TTIP agreement as an opportunity to reduce the US trade deficit with the EU. I would like to hear from the Minister what she thinks of these statements and what possibilities she sees for achieving a result acceptable to the Netherlands. The PVV is not the only party to recognise the importance of free trade. Better connection with foreign markets increases economic opportunities for our businesses and consumers. But the PVV is the only party that has warned against giving away our sovereignty to Brussels for years. What is striking is that the parties who applauded the EU's commitment now complain that the same megalomaniac bureaucracy does not take into account the unique Dutch interests in multilateral monster treaties such as TTIP and CETA. For the PVV, that's no surprise. We share the legitimate concerns about food safety, animal welfare and the impact that the investor claim culture can have on the democratic legislative process. It's high time for a nexit. Freed from the EU, we can decide for ourselves with whom we conclude trade agreements and agree on the best conditions for the Netherlands. In a bilateral treaty with a reputable country like the Netherlands, a dispute settlement mechanism might not even be necessary. After all, the US knows that our governance is stable, that we do business transparently and that we commit ourselves to the highest possible ethical standards. The only reason why the Netherlands is being forced into such an arbitration court is because we are stuck with unreliable countries such as Italy, Greece and Bulgaria. Again it turns out: one size fits none. Citizens in Europe feel this way and turn against TTIP. The distrust of the EU is growing every day. At the end of last year there were hundreds of thousands of people on their feet in Germany and France, among others, to demonstrate against TTIP and CETA. More than 200,000 signatures have already been collected in the Netherlands for a referendum. 100,000 to go. The PVV has every confidence that it will succeed. That referendum is going to happen, because Dutch people don't want TTIP. I would therefore like to know why the Minister is calling for a new confrontation with the people. Just two days ago, last Tuesday, democratic hope was ignored when the Ukraine Treaty was still being pressed by the First Chamber. The cabinet must have laughed, along with the Ukrainian ambassador, at all those lame citizens who thought they would be taken seriously. Well, here's one of those, one of those dumb-ass citizens who was running flyers, collecting autographs and voting against them. And now she's got a microphone, too. I would like to draw attention to these leaders: we are not going to let ourselves be thrown out of the field. In the end, you will lose this battle, because we will not give up. We are going to hand out flyers again, collect signatures and vote against them again. Just as long as you stop writing inserts and start listening to what the citizen wants and, above all, to what the citizen does not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u37	May I also congratulate you on your maiden speech, Mrs Van Weerdenburg? We are now going to listen to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. Who's the boss? Who is in charge in the Netherlands and who is in charge in the European Union? Who is in charge of the way we set up our country, of the demands we impose on the food we eat and on the products we use? We are talking today about TTIP, the deal that some politicians want to make with the United States under pressure from the largest companies. This deal is called a free trade agreement. Freedom not for people, but for multinationals to maximise their profits in Europe and America with as few obstacles as possible. This has a huge impact on millions of people, because making fewer agreements on the quality of products can be very dangerous. We are not waiting for shit from the US that would not be approved by our standards. Nor are we waiting for fierce competition between family farms in the Netherlands and industrial agriculture as we see it in America. A larger market sounds nice, but if that leads to higher profits on the one hand and lower wages on the other, then we know in whose interest such an agreement is concluded. The parallel legal system set up in the interests of companies to safeguard the profits and investments of companies is completely devastating, but it is directly undermining our democratic rule of law. Mr President, I have been told that a maiden speech, a first performance in this Chamber, may also be a bit personal. But I do run into a problem there, because I have never negotiated a trade agreement in my life, let alone signed one. I do know from my own experience what unlimited trade with people can do. A game of monopoly with my two older brothers used to be enough for that. You get the Kalverstraat if I get 100,000 guilders from you; guilder at the time. You may not build hotels on it for five rounds, you must wash dishes tonight and I get those soccer cards from Ronald and Frank de Boer. That's what unlimited trade with people does. It loosens the beast in people who can be very sympathetic in the base. It shows that not the trade is the problem, but the system within which you trade. If that system is capitalism, then trade serves primarily the interests of capital. Let me put it first: trade between us is very little wrong. I'd rather countries and people act together than go to war and shoot each other. But what the SP is opposed to is that we sell our democracy because a group of companies wants to make more profit over the back of the people and the planet. We are happy to participate in agreements for more and better trade between countries. These should be agreements on human rights, decent wages for honest work, sustainable production and respect for the differences that exist between countries and between people. Thus, such agreements are not made by lobbyists and big business, but by the people themselves, by organizing all those involved and not just those who can make a lot of money from a trade agreement. The answer to unlimited trade is not protectionism but fair trade, agreements that are in the interests of people, of the climate, of those who are still systematically exploited. It seemed for a long time that this debate would take place at a time when the TTIP Treaty was still languishing in Donald Trump's freezer, but that is different now. The US Trade Minister, Ross, said this week that the US wants to talk to the EU about TTIP. That brings this debate to precisely the right moment, because the question is whether this Minister intends to negotiate with the Trump administration. Does she expect to be able to reach an agreement with this President that can make trade between us more sustainable, fairer and social? I don't think so, but I'm very curious about this minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you very much, and congratulations. Then I may now ask those who have made their maiden speech to stand for this. Then all colleagues in the political groups can come and congratulate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u40	Let's move on to the debate. I call Mrs Becker of the VVD for her first term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate those Members who have just made their maiden speech. The Netherlands is a trading country. Exports have generated half of the economic growth in the Netherlands over the last 20 years. More and more Dutch jobs are linked to trade, now around 2.2 million. Free trade means more jobs and more prosperity. Of course, that only goes on if it is fair trade. I have heard a number of colleagues say the same thing today. We need to agree rules in free trade, which will prevent illegal state aid. If, for example, Chinese steel is in danger of being dumped here, we must prevent it, so that it is not at the expense of European companies. We need to set good standards for the environment and sustainability in free trade so that our standards are not lowered. Free trade and fair trade go hand in hand as far as the VVD is concerned. In addition, trade agreements are not our enemy, but our friend. A trade agreement is in the interests of free and fair trade, because it ensures more investment security and less barriers, but also agreements on standards, on a proper form of arbitration in trade disputes and on sustainability. That is exactly what the Netherlands has been working hard for in the EU at CETA and what has also been agreed in the agreement. We should do the same at TTIP, if this treaty ever comes out of the fridge. I wonder what the Minister will say about that. I can well imagine that many Dutch people are currently concerned, unfortunately stirred up by ghost stories, about certain aspects or possible consequences of trade agreements such as CETA and TTIP. The worst doom scenarios are going around. CETA would put our food safety at risk and TTIP would provide a tsunami of chlorine chickens and puffs on the European market, not to mention sickening substances in foreign meat or foreign companies that come here to take over power at the expense of our own democratic institutions. Ghost stories! Unfortunately, we have heard them from several speakers today. I can very well imagine that you, as a citizen, would like to sign a treaty to stop it. But people deserve the realistic story. Trade agreements are crucial for creating more jobs in the Netherlands. In implementing six agreements currently on the EU's agenda, the economy is growing by 3.3 billion in the long term, as calculated recently. This is converted to €194 per Dutch person per year. A treaty such as TTIP also has the potential to bring great benefits to our future prosperity. The expected increase in exports could create additional jobs, especially in SMEs. Of course, we must negotiate properly, as we did with CETA. The European Commission has negotiated TTIP extensively from 2013 to 2016. The Netherlands and the EU have taken the view that they will not accept an agreement that undermines our high standards or our policy freedom to take measures to protect humans, animals, plants and the environment. It therefore does not do justice to the reality that some parties already refer an agreement that has not even been concluded to the trash can and take every opportunity to do so. People's legitimate concerns about sufficient work and prosperity in the future do not deserve to be scared. They deserve an honest answer. That is that we should not retreat behind the dikes, but rather take advantage of the opportunities in Europe and the world as a trading country. That is not only to create more jobs, I would also like to say this today, but also because trade leads to interdependence. That is still the best guarantee for an increasingly peaceful world. So today I am calling for realism for all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u42	I see Mrs Van Weerdenburg is trying to interrupt. I was going to keep the interruptions before the end of the input. If Mrs Van Weerdenburg is okay with that, then that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u43	After that call for realism, I still have a few questions to ask the Minister. How will the Minister ensure that Dutch entrepreneurs take full advantage of the many agreements that the EU concludes? I believe that not all entrepreneurs are familiar with the ins and outs of all agreements that affect their sector. Perhaps a new agreement offers more export opportunities. I have looked at the website of the Chamber of Commerce and on the country pages of RVO, and I think it is difficult for entrepreneurs to get a useful overview of the possibilities offered by different agreements. Is the Minister prepared to take this down? And is the Minister prepared to explain to entrepreneurs what impact trade agreements have and what they mean for entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, especially for SMEs? I believe that she has once promised to do so for CETA. Maybe she can go into that. Finally, I agree with the CDA colleague's question on the Minister's view of the European Court's ruling on the Singapore agreement. What impact does this statement have on future trade agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u44	I would like to refer to the words of the VVD about concerned citizens who have signed up. It's a bit of the same story as always: they don't get it, so we need to explain it better. That is what we hear in every referendum and every plan the people disagree with. Can't Mrs Becker at least keep the possibility open that people understand, but simply disagree with such a treaty and really don't want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u45	I hope I didn't get the impression that people don't get it or don't want to get it. I didn't say that either. I just indicated that I understand very well that people are worried. At the same time, in an interruption to the colleague of the Animal Party, I said that it is also our responsibility as a policy to inform people correctly. I wonder if you would do that with a manifestation in which you would like to wear a treaty like CETA to the grave because it would be incredibly harmful to people, the environment and the environment. This does not do justice to reality, to the standards contained in such a treaty. I call for realistic information. I support the PVV colleague in saying that we must involve citizens in the conclusion of agreements of this kind. I believe that the reset of trade policy also means that trade agreements and the negotiation process should be more transparent and open. That supports the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u46	I understand that the stupid citizen is being deceived by the frightening of parties that disagree. Well, fine. But if I listen carefully, is the VVD for a millions of devouring campaign to explain to the citizen what it all means?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u47	I don't think there's any point in repeating my answer. I leave comments on "the stupid citizen" entirely on the behalf of the PVV. I would never have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u48	I have to say that the VVD is once again abandoning the farmers, for example, who are protesting against CETA. I have an important question for the VVD with a view to TTIP. The VVD Congress called on its party to do more to address climate change. The President of the United States has said that we are withdrawing from the Paris agreement. Is it then obvious to continue with the negotiations on such a free trade agreement if we in the Netherlands are to comply with the climate agreement? American companies are not subject to these obligations. It's about long-term goals. We did not suddenly translate the whole climate agreement into policy, which would allow us to agree on what standards are the limit for us. Does the VVD consider it sensible and desirable to leave any door open to new negotiations on TTIP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mrs Ouwehand's first comment was about farmers. They are certainly not abandoned by this kind of treaties. Under CETA, vulnerable sectors can be protected. Something has been arranged, for example, for the pig sector. At TTIP, we don't know if that's the issue yet. The Animal Party immediately calls for the entire poultry industry to go down as a result of TTIP, while it does not do justice to reality. After all, we can also make demands in the negotiations. Let us wait for the agreement and not refer it to the trash. Mrs Ouwehand says: let us not negotiate at all because President Trump does not have a heart for the environment, so we may not want to talk to him about trade either. I would like to say to her: let us take it as an opportunity and remain in negotiations with him. The EU, in particular, as one of the largest economic power blocks with high standards of economy and sustainability, may be able to get some momentum in the US in terms of sustainability and climate through TTIP negotiations. That is a good opportunity if the Americans no longer want to speak at the other table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u50	I never understand that position of a party that opposes any form of subsidy, to say: oh, wait, we have losers here, we are going to make arrangements for that. Anyway, that's on the VVD. Let me speak the language of the VVD. Dutch companies will have to comply with a very strong climate policy. Prime Minister Rutte, of the VVD, issued some kind of warning about that. What the business community has now come up with is only 20% of the goals of the Paris climate agreement that we have to achieve. In other words, our business will be held to high climate standards, either on the left or on the right. The American business community is not; now it looks that way. Isn't that, as long as that threat exists, a huge warning to the VVD to protect our business from products from companies that do not have to comply with any climate agreement? A party like the VVD shouldn't want that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u51	I really do not understand this attitude of the Animal Party, which says: the Americans have lower environmental and sustainability standards than Europe, so let us not negotiate with them. I'd say let's start negotiating with them. Let's keep talking about trade. I indicated in my speech that this is precisely the mutual dependence that will allow you to continue to engage in dialogue, including on climate. I invite the Party for Animals to see this as an opportunity and not to throw the treaty in the trash in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u52	Before I give the floor to Mrs Sazias, in the context of the neutral, independent information that Mr Trump has not yet decided to withdraw from the climate agreement. There are rumors that he might want to make such a decision. Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u53	Just before the balance sheet and the honest information, the following. The VVD indicates what the potential merits of this treaty could be, but at the same time says that measures could be taken. In general, however, they also cost money. Are you subtracting them from the merits? That is what we have to mention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u54	I have not sat at the table of researchers from SEO and EcoRes, for example, who have calculated the potential positive economic effects. It would indeed be good to check whether the negative effects have also been taken into account in such investigations. I know, however, that the research example of SEO has indicated that negotiations and ultimately agreements could also have a negative effect through increases in consumer prices, which in turn is offset by higher economic growth. So I totally agree: you have to map both effects. My picture is that if you do that, free trade and agreements will still be positive for the EU and especially for the Netherlands as a trading country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you very much. We've arrived at Mrs. Chicken's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr. Chairman. TTIP is in the fridge, in the basement. A number of speakers before me have already said it. I would also like to congratulate those who have made their maiden speech today. Trade agreements can only protect the position of workers if they contribute to good environmental, climate, labour, sustainability and health standards and combat inequality and tax avoidance. So not trade to trade, but actually meet the conditions you want to have when it comes to the future of the Netherlands and the world. I know the Minister feels the same way about this. In De Financiee Dagblad of not very long ago she speaks clearly: no protectionism, but protection because it is necessary. She mentions three principles: Global Goals and the climate agreement, transparency and inclusiveness and protection of people worldwide. I support and, of course, share these principles. How does the Minister intend to achieve this? How are we going to conclude trade agreements, or rather sustainability agreements or agreements for a fairer world? What's it gonna take? What basis does she start from? We have a missionary cabinet now. There are simultaneous chords, other than TTIP. How does she intend to initiate that process? With who? I think that's very important, because, despite putting TTIP in the fridge, there will always be trade driven. We have learned from the process that we want it to be different, starting with where we come from and where we want to go. Then we need to look at which countries and under what conditions we want to trade. So it's not America first, because that's not allowed to say any country, but more we all benefit. How are we going to realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mrs Ouwehand will be the first to speak. She's gonna try to set a good example with a pointy interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u58	This time, I'm really doing that. I have a question about CETA and the position taken by Commissioner Timmermans, which shows that the Commission also recognises that trade at the moment is not fair enough and fair enough, which also applies to CETA. Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists think it wise to step in with ratification and entry into force, because it is right to reflect on how it could be done better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u59	I do not think CETA is comparable to TTIP, just because of the fact that Trudeau of Canada is smart, unlike Trump, who is acting like an idiot, just as far as the potential of the climate agreement is concerned. So there's a difference between that and that. It matters which countries you work with and which standards you meet. I'm not necessarily against being tolerated, it's under the conditions under which.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u60	I understand your position. But then it remains that, at the moment, it is recognised, among other things, about CETA that it is not fair enough and fair enough. A pass on the spot would be the most obvious, even in view of the processes still ongoing in France and Belgium around CETA? Why couldn't the Netherlands also take a critical position? Nothing will be lost if we reflect for a moment. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u61	I'm drawing a different conclusion. But it is good to pass that question on to the Minister through us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u62	I understand what Mrs. Ouwehand is saying. The criticism of CETA is still immense. Mr Timmermans said that the Treaty does not really fully meet the new requirements that Europe wants to impose on it. Your own colleague Jongerius abstained from voting on CETA. Then I get the feeling that there might be talk to the PvdA, especially when she is out of the embrace of the VVD. You think I'm right about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u63	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u64	There is no longer any discussion with the PvdA about whether or not to approve the CETA Convention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u65	I referred to the hug. It's not like that. We ourselves judge on the basis of what is ahead and on the basis of the negotiations of Minister Ploumen. Of course, you must also continue to look at agreements that have been concluded. They never remain a static whole. They're still developing. So you have to look at that. But it's not like I'm gonna insist that you put everything on hold or that this whole treaty can't be done anymore. I think it is logical that there should be a strong debate about this, because it is also about something. That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating my colleagues on their maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is declared opponent of TTIP. We believe that national labour, environmental and consumer standards are undermining the influence of our national parliament. It is too much in favour of large companies and it offers the middle class and the lower income class too little. It poses a significant threat to our high-quality agriculture and our animal welfare standards. Indeed, it is not surprising that we are receiving a cry from a number of agricultural organizations. I am therefore curious to hear the answers from Secretary of State Van Dam. That doesn't mean 50PLUS is against trade agreements. On the contrary, we can see the theoretical potential of a large trade agreement. But as TTIP now stands, it is not acceptable to us. I would point out, for example, the lack of transparency. Negotiations shall take place behind closed doors, under extreme secrecy. Even ordinary Members of the European Commission can hardly access the information. This does not exactly contribute to confidence in politics. And then ISDS, that unwanted supranational arbitration system. We don't think that's a net system. And I would point out the lack of agreement on sufficiently high social, environmental, sustainability and labour standards. They should weigh heavily. The negotiations between 2013 and 2016 have produced very little results. And now, in the United States, Donald Trump is talking about it. Yeah, America first and climate change is a hoax. So far, the United States has kept quite quiet, but now it seems that they want to start negotiations again. This seems to be mainly in order to improve the trade balance with Europe, in favour of the United States. 50PLUS sees no added value in trade agreements that lack convincing democratic legitimacy. We are opposed to treaties such as TTIP, which focus on trade maximization and ignore too much climate change, environmental costs and inequality. Then what do we want? We believe, for example, that the progressive trade agreements that European Commissioners Timmermans and Katainen implicitly advocate are a step in the right direction. We must protect our high European values. That's what we need to bet on. This can partly curb the undesirable effects of globalisation. Does the Minister share this view of her party colleague and will she stand up for it? To what extent does the existing 2014 TTIP negotiating mandate comply with this direction of thought? We also want to know from the Minister what the opinion of the European Court of Justice of 16 May on the EU-S Singapore agreement means for TTIP and CETA. That has been mentioned a few times before. Does she agree with us that this should lead to ratification of the full treaties by all national parliaments? Finally, I would like to sum up briefly. 50PLUS is completely opposed to TTIP in its current unbalanced and unsustainable form. It is even against the continuation of negotiations as long as the United States remains ambivalent about TTIP and does not publish a clear trade strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u67	The 50PLUS colleague also talks again about the importance of citizens' confidence in politics. In the following sentence, I hear her say that it does not give ISDS any confidence, after which she continues with the next paragraph of her speech. This suggests that trade agreements, not only in CETA but also in TTIP, will be based on ISDS. Can it indicate whether 50PLUS sees the benefits of the ICS and the multilateral court that is under way? That would do more justice to reality than to say very quickly that ISDS does not create confidence. Does she agree with me that ISDS is actually long dead and buried, as the Minister has said?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u68	The ICS is less bad, but still not good. That has already been said by Mrs Ouwehand and I fully agree with that. We have a very good legal system. The same applies to the United States. Our national legal system is sufficient for us. We do not think it is necessary to set up a special business tribunal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u69	There are also other trade agreements with many other countries in the world. Does 50PLUS recognise that a form of arbitration through such a multilateral court and the ICS can make sense? We have a very good and transparent legal system, but that is certainly not the issue everywhere in the world. Or does 50PLUS say that we are against this kind of mechanism at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u70	We have great faith in our own legal system. We'd like to keep that trust. We do not think this is transparent enough. There should be no rules for companies other than the rules that apply to all of us in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u71	My colleague from 50PLUS is very clear about TTIP. She does not think it is a good idea, but on the other hand she says: trade agreements and treaties must be concluded. Will it at least agree that trade is a very important element for our prosperity and for our well-being for the Netherlands? We pay for our health care and education. Does it want to go along with the idea that if Europe sets standards and standards properly, we should be able to negotiate with other countries on that basis and conclude treaties?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u72	Yes, that is what we want, as long as we protect our European values. That is of great importance to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u73	So we should also be able to negotiate a treaty with the Americans, as long as we take our standards, values and standards as a starting point? Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u74	We should do that, but to be perfectly honest, our confidence in it is not so great, especially since the negotiations are conducted in extreme secrecy. All this can be much more transparent. Do you think it's weird that the public isn't well aware of what this is all about? Most people just don't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u75	Thank you very much. Finally, I give the floor to the last speaker from the Chamber, Mr Baudet, on behalf of the Democracy Forum. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that Mr Kuzu has withdrawn from this debate as a speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. Exactly 200 years ago, in 1817, David Ricardo, one of the classic economists, formulated the principle of comparative advantages, with which traditional free trade theory was born. If one country can produce less expensive olives and produce less expensive textiles, it is more convenient that the first country specializes in olives and the other country in textiles. Both countries will have advantages and the inhabitants of both countries will be left with more. In itself, there is little contradiction, apart from the fact that these comparative advantages obviously play a major role in production costs and that these production costs are largely determined by non-economic considerations. Animal welfare, environmental protection, food safety and a safety net for workers who are excluded are external factors. In the time of David Ricardo, in 1817, these external factors played virtually no role in social thinking, but nowadays they have become almost everything-defining in our social thinking. This is why classic free trade theory is no longer fully developed in 2017, and TTIP and CETA should not be introduced. The most important thing to consider is that, while TTIP is being promoted as a means of maintaining these standards and thus limiting externalities, it is actually causing us to lose control. If the US decides, for example, to allow shale gas drilling, the gas price in America will be reduced and Dutch farmers and producers will be able to compete away. If the US decides to reduce electricity prices due to other reduced standards, all kinds of medicines can also be produced much cheaper, causing damage to the Dutch pharmaceutical industry. If America decides to put hormones in animal feed, we can agree in a treaty that those hormones should not be in it, but those hormones can no longer be found in the slaughterhouse. So that cannot be verified. For example, all the standards mentioned in TTIP are nothing more than a wash nose. Quotas and import levies are then necessary tools to compensate for the loss of control. If you let that go, if you make that impossible by treaty, you'll inevitably get a race to the bottom. In the Netherlands strict environmental and animal welfare standards are applied, but the most raw practices take place across the ocean. The treaties with America and Canada, which in turn are linked to Mexico through NAFTA, would make us lose any control over food safety, environmental standards and workers' protection and force us to go along with a gradual lowering of those standards, in a gradual spiral downward spiral. That is the first major objection to TTIP and CETA. The second is that the treaty is being negotiated on behalf of all these hugely different countries of the European Union, giving you a compromise that nobody fits. For example, Romania and France want something completely different from Spain, the Netherlands or Denmark. Like the euro and the open borders do not work because all these different Member States need different policies, such as different rates of interest, different immigration arrangements and different immigration policies, TTIP and CETA do not work on a European scale either, because all these different European Member States need different types of trade agreements, because they have different types of economies. In addition, the alleged benefits of TTIP, in so far as they exist, are very asymmetric, especially with a small number of large multinationals, whereas it has only disadvantages for Dutch SMEs and Dutch agriculture. Of course, the VVD is for TTIP. Who else would have expected from this multinational party? The fourth and last major objection to these treaties is that it constitutes an additional undermining of Dutch sovereignty by the parallel legal system introduced by agreements within the framework of the Investor-State Dispute Settlement, which is most likely to be in it. As a result, the Dutch government can be the victim of all kinds of claims by companies and investors who can take the political hostage outside the Dutch courts. It is a good thing that Trump has provisionally closed the negotiations on TTIP. If there is to be this controversial treaty, we will call for a referendum. People can already register for that referendum on the Forum for Democracy website.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u77	There are a number of questions for you. Mr Amhaouch has the floor first, then Mr Bouali and Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mr Baudet raises many questions about trade agreements, not only with TTIP but also with CETA, which we believe is a good example that can serve as a reference. How does Mr Baudet's party generally view trade agreements? We are working on Japan, we want to conclude other trade agreements in Asia. How does his party view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u79	I thank the speaker for this question. We see trade agreements, as I have shown in my introduction, as political treaties which cannot be considered technocratic or purely economic, for the simple reason that there are so many politically sensitive considerations involved. As a result, we are very sceptical about multilateral trade agreements, treaties between all these different European countries with another country. This inevitably leads to a political compromise which will not enable us or will only be in a very poor position to serve the interests of the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u80	We are in Europe, which has begun as an economic unit. My conclusion is that the basic position of your political party is that you are negative in relation to trade agreements between the EU and other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u81	That's correct. We are at all opposed to the European Union and therefore to everything that the European Union does, including the conclusion of multilateral trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u82	And you know that the European Union has brought the Netherlands a great deal of good as an exporting country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u83	No, I don't. In fact, this is a question of factual inaccuracies. The European Union has only disadvantages. The European Union is destroying not only our sovereignty but also our economy, because it is a lobbyary which only benefits a number of large transnational multinationals and an underclass that comes here and pushes Dutch workers out of the market. The European Union is therefore not good for the Dutch economy and we need to get out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u84	I would like to thank Mr Baudet for his historical link at the beginning of his speech. That's very much appreciated. He also made a link to the race to the bottom. Have we not precisely avoided the emergence of a race to the bottom by means of all the trade agreements that we have concluded over the past few decades? Didn't we just get better standards? We've really improved on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u85	I wonder which standards and exactly what treaty Mr Bouali has in mind. You'll soon find yourself in a very general discussion. Let me take the issue of the European Union itself. The EU as such is a multilateral trade agreement. I believe that this has led to a reduction in standards in many respects in the Netherlands. Think of the transport sector, for example. The standards used in the Netherlands for drivers, for example, are undermined by shadowy temporary agency structures and agencies from Eastern Europe, where drivers run under much lower standards. This leads to more road accidents, all kinds of social nuisances and so on. Can Mr Bouali specify what he is thinking of? I am thinking in the first instance of lowering the standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u86	I am thinking of environmental standards, employment standards and social standards. I believe that we have made a great deal of progress in these areas over the past few decades. That brings me straight to my second question to Mr Baudet. He talked about the different economies in the European Union. You can see that from both sides. The fact that there are many different economies is perhaps blocking us, but of course that also applies to the United States. California is a very different kind of economy than Florida. However, the strength of the United States is that it is a big block. That is precisely the strength of the European Union. All these different economies together ensure that we have a very heavy voice internationally. Will Mr Baudet go along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u87	No. I think there is much to be said for the idea that American states could operate much more economically if they were not united. There is therefore a strong economic argument against the United States. We must, of course, bear in mind that there is a very fundamental difference between the United States and Europe. America is a nation and has a national identity with one language and enormous labour mobility. There is an enormous willingness on the part of Americans to migrate for jobs. That is also possible because they speak the same language. The only migration we can have in Europe is labour migration, which is necessary to generate a certain economic growth, or is either of the underclass, in which you do not have to speak a language, or of the CEO level, in which the language is English. However, the whole middle class, like all teachers and doctors, is not mobile, for the simple reason that they need to speak the language and that they are often not powerful. That is the first point: labour mobility is much higher in the United States than in Europe, so that there can be economic convergence which is not taking place in Europe. Secondly, there is the cultural aspect: Americans are much more inclined to migrate, to go to another part of the country and to move 2,000 to 3,000 kilometres. That has to do with all kinds of things, such as frontier mentality and you name it all. That makes the two situations incomparable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u88	I can see from Mr Bouali's non-verbal behaviour that he would like to make another third interruption. We don't. Mr Amhaouch has just asked me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u89	As far as I'm concerned, that's fine, by the way!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u90	I understand you're okay with that, too, but we're not gonna do that. We usually do interruptions in half. I call Mrs Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u91	These are interesting reflections by Mr Baudet, but perhaps we can make concrete the impact of the proposals of the Forum for Democracy. Does Mr Baudet know what it would mean for the Dutch economy if we were to continue on our own and if the EU were to fall apart?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u92	Recently we had a conversation with Mario Draghi about this. If the Netherlands were to leave the euro, that would immediately mean that we would be able to withdraw 100 billion from the TARGET2 system. That means 15% of our gross domestic product. Every Dutch person would immediately benefit greatly from this. Secondly, if we were to leave the customs union, which is the EU, we could easily conclude trade agreements on our own terms. That shows Iceland, for example. That is very successful in negotiating standards. Thirdly, you can survive as a relatively small country. We are not really so small; we are a medium-sized country, with 17 million inhabitants. I think there are a lot of examples of relatively small countries doing very well, such as South Korea, Singapore and so on. I also mention Switzerland and Norway. So the question isn't really "why?', But "why not?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u93	I know very different figures, which would show that the Dutch economy is going to shrink by 15% if we go on alone and certainly if the EU falls apart. Perhaps we should discuss this a little longer outside this debate. Mr Baudet mentioned an interesting example, namely Iceland. Mr Baudet is probably also aware that Iceland benefits very much from the EU. First, the EU negotiates large trade agreements, because the EU always takes precedence over large economic blocs. Iceland then actually cuts and paste what was agreed in those trade agreements. The fact that Iceland could do this on its own without the EU is therefore an illusion. My specific question is: if we, like the Netherlands, were to follow Iceland and if we were to negotiate all these agreements ourselves around the world, how many extra officials would the Netherlands actually need? Has the Democracy Forum looked at that yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u94	That is a wonderful reason to make our point that we believe that more investment should be made in the Dutch diplomatic service. We are very disappointed at the current blow, for example with regard to the prestige of Consulates and Embassy buildings. So this is a wonderful reason to say that there is indeed a need to invest a lot more in it, because a relatively small country like the Netherlands has a lot of abroad and therefore has to invest hugely in relations with abroad. As far as Iceland is concerned, the treaty that Iceland has been able to conclude with China shows that Iceland is going ahead with the European Union, because the European Union, because of all the different interests of all these different countries of the EU, is not going to succeed in concluding that treaty, while Iceland is just doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u95	This brings us to the end of the Court's contribution in the first term. The Minister asked for 10 minutes to prepare the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u96	I would suggest to the spokesmen that they try to conclude this debate before 1.30 p.m., because a procedural meeting will then begin in which many of the spokesmen of this debate will have to take part. So they are in control of each other whether they can be in their own follow-up debate. I will certainly be happy to assist them in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by congratulating Mrs Diks, Mrs Van Weerdenburg and Mr Hijink. I actually wanted to say in this debate that it looked very much like Groundhog Day to me, because we have already discussed a lot of the issues, but I also realized that I would do injustice to the new Chamber. I have heard new things from both Mrs Van Weerdenburg and Mrs Diks and Mr Hijink. Thank you very much for that. I look forward to working together. Exactly a year ago, yes, it's like the devil is playing with it on June 1, 2016, I was at the OECD in Paris. There I called for a reset of free trade. What I meant by that was actually roughly a summary of what various spokesmen have brought here. I have said that free trade agreements are extremely important. It should not be negotiated by politicians and civil servants in backrooms alone. That must be transparent. We also need to understand the signs of time better than before. These signs of time are the inequality, which must be reduced, a climate agreement, development goals and an agenda for the world to reduce poverty. I worked out that call afterwards and said that we need to change three concrete things. One. Free trade agreements should contribute to the achievement of the Paris climate objectives. They must contribute to reducing poverty, as we have agreed internationally in the sustainable development goals. Two. It needs to be negotiated much more transparently. For the Netherlands, this means that I have proposed, and in the meantime have also established, the Breed Handelsberaad, in which we exchange views with a broad coalition of stakeholders, from Greenpeace to VNO-NCW. We want to take them with us. Three. We must pay much more attention to the losers of globalisation. That could also be sectors. I always find that a little vague, because what is a sector? It's mostly about people. If you take all that together, you will see that we are very committed to what the Chamber has brought about about the importance of sustainability, climate, labour standards and transparency. Before I go on with the "general" block, I say that I have a block of "TTIP" and a block of "other questions." Those are not insignificant questions, but they deal with other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u98	Then I ask the spokesmen to make their interruptions every time at the end of a block. Then perhaps they can go further on points of each other and we will have an orderly debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u99	I would like to touch on the importance of the revision, the reset, of free trade. I am talking to colleagues in the European Union about this. We are, of course, also trying to achieve a common position. I am therefore pleased that this vision has now also been expressed in the European Commission. Commissioner Timmermans, of course, strongly builds on these notions in his paper on harnessing globalisation. At the request of the Chamber, I sent an appreciation of that paper; I believe last week. I also sent Mr Amhaouch an overview of all the trade agreements currently under negotiation two weeks ago. So I am not going to go into that now, but I am referring to that. It will therefore not surprise the Chamber that I agree with the paper of the European Commission. I am very sorry that she is not talking about corporate social responsibility at all. We had a debate on this yesterday in the Chamber. We all think that is important. I therefore feel supported and strengthened in bringing this into Europe. We have talked a lot in recent years about trade agreements, and rightly so, because it is about something. It's not just about quotas and prices, it's about who we are and what we think is important. Supported by the Chamber, I have introduced a number of new elements in Europe around the trade agreements. I am going to mention them briefly, because I find it annoying that there have apparently been misunderstandings about what the Netherlands thinks here and there. Firstly, transparency has been increased, not only by the Breed Trade Council, but also in Europe. All EU proposals are just online, with an explanatory factsheet. They're for everyone to read. They are hundreds of documents, but with the search function you can search for what you want to know. Secondly, at the request of the cabinet, the ESC issued an opinion. That's our gold standard. That's up to the Chamber. That's the touchstone that we're all laying down. I announced yesterday that the gold sector is signing a CSR agreement. I wouldn't want to talk about gilding in that light anymore, because I think they'll get very angry. When I say gold, I mean real fair gold. Thirdly, there is the Breed Handelsberaad. We've already gotten together. The minutes are, of course, on the website. Fourthly, at the request of the Netherlands, the European Commission involves civil society in all its breadth in the European commitment to trade agreements. Fifth, the Chamber adopted the Van Ojik motion. On this basis, the Netherlands carried out an investigation into ISDS. Based on that we have ISDS "killed," although that sounds a bit bad. At least ISDS is dead and buried. We've developed ICS and we're working with the Canadians at a multilateral court. That's actually an transcendent staircase and the point we want to go to. Sixthly, the sustainability chapters in trade agreements have become increasingly ambitious. The OECD guidelines on corporate social responsibility are incorporated into the trade agreements. We're not there with that either. I recently sent a study to the Court to see how to better anchor dispute resolution on sustainability provisions in a trade agreement. In this way, we can ensure that, as suggested by a number of MPs, there is also a way for civil society organisations and trade unions to enforce these sustainability agreements. Finally, I took the initiative, in accordance with the Klever/Jasper van Dijk motion, for a study to measure the impact of TTIP on developing countries. We want to make sure that that impact is only positive. Which brings me to TTIP. TTIP is indeed in a freezer. That freezer is in a basement, and I don't know where the key to the basement door is. I'll say a little bit more about that, but that's actually where we are right now. We negotiated TTIP. Again, this commitment can be found on the website of the European Commission. That's 96 documents. We negotiated, but we encountered a number of problems with the Obama administration. These included the question of whether they would accept the ICS and whether our dredgers could have access to the American market. I have not yet heard from the Tromp administration, which suggests to me that we can look forward to a breakthrough on these issues. The list of requirements is quite similar to what I referred to here as'reset' and to the paper on globalisation, because they are not the wishes of the European Union and of all of us. When I look at the list of demands, I just don't see this happening right now. If the Americans are prepared to negotiate on the basis of the demands of the European Union and also say 'here are ours', the mandate should be looked at. I agree with those who suggest that, because that mandate dates back a number of years ago. If you call for a reset, you must also see it in the mandate and in the negotiations. In this way, I think, I have made it clear once again that, as far as we are concerned, standards and standards cannot be affected. I have already mentioned this, and Secretary of State Van Dam will also say something about this in the field of agriculture. So I am going to say that again. It is also important to say something about Singapore. We have often seen with this Parliament that the treaties are important and are about all of us. They're about who we are and what we care about. How can we ensure that this Parliament can not only take part in decisions on these treaties if it sends me to Brussels with a mandate, but can also vote on them? I've been very committed to that. The Netherlands was the first country to say in the Council that it felt that these agreements should be joint agreements. That means as much as the national parliaments have to talk about it. I was lucky enough to get a unanimous approval. The Commission has referred this question to the European Court of Justice. The Court's ruling means that the trade agreement with Singapore must be approved by the parliaments of the Member States before it can enter into force. You should always study such a legal statement, because there are many large and small letters in it and also between the lines you have to read everything. We are now letting our own legal people figure out the precise implications of every word in it. The Council's legal service is also examining these details. I assume that we will discuss this with the European Council early in the autumn, so with all my fellow ministers. It will then of course work in such a way that I submit the commitment of the Netherlands to Parliament. We will then have a debate on this, and that will determine what I intend to do next. I welcomed the ruling in the first instance, because the Court says that there is indeed a role for the Member States and therefore for the national parliaments in the final procedure, in addition to the role of the European Parliament and the role I have just outlined. I would like to say that I come up with an appreciation of the precise implications and that we can discuss them at a later date. I have already said something about TTIP, but I would like to say something more about it. The United States Trade Minister, Mr Robert Lighthizer, has just been installed; we have not actually heard him say anything about trade agreements. We heard Wilbur Ross. I said that the EU framework is clear. Once again, that is not a wish list. We would like the agreement to be based here and here and based on it, but we have demands on the table. I haven't found the key yet. Mrs Ouwehand has asked what the Investment Court System means for sustainability and whether this is fair, if I may paraphrase her input. I would like to mention her separately, because she has requested this debate and she has been patient enough to wait two years. In the meantime, we may have spoken about it ten times, but not in this Chamber. I have already said that the Netherlands has carried out an investigation into the mechanisms for giving trade unions and civil society organisations the opportunity to advertise, if I may put it that way, if those sustainability provisions, which have been substantially strengthened, are not respected. I've been said about six possibilities. I listed it in a letter to the Chamber about three weeks ago. Unfortunately, as a outgoing cabinet, we cannot give that a very strong appreciation, but I assume that a new cabinet will take over. Indeed, there was broad support in the Chamber to discuss this issue. I can at least say that I can describe some of these proposals as promising, but it does require a little study to be able to see it properly. Then I have a package called "other" but no less important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u100	I'll take a look at the members first. Two of them have already indicated that they want to place an interruption over the first part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u101	It's becoming increasingly unclear what's coming from the United States. We respond to tweets and there are ministers who say things. I believe that there is also uncertainty among many trading partners in Latin America, for example. Is the Netherlands jumping in that hole? Of course, the uncertainty created by the United States also offers opportunities for Dutch business in Latin America, for example. Does the Minister share that? Are we gonna jump in on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u102	It is clear that there are even more opportunities for Europe now than before to conclude decent treaties. This also means that the European Commission is continuing talks with Latin America with the Mercosur block. We are talking to Australia and New Zealand. That's also in the overview. Mr Bouali has a point, because we have agreed a certain reprioritisation in the Council and in the Commission. I also submitted this to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u103	The objection of the Animal Party to the multilateral court or any arbitration court is fundamental, namely that you create a different legal system for companies than for citizens. Okay, let's get this over with. I asked the Minister about the reflection paper of Commissioner Timmermans, among others, in which the European Commission recognises that the views on international trade should be fairer and more sustainable. I ask the Cabinet what this means for the steps that are still being taken for CETA. Isn't it obvious to say, as a result of the valuable insights into the reflection paper, that if it has to be fairer and more sustainable, we are not going to continue with a treaty that doesn't yet comply with it? That is what the Commissioner has said: CETA does not yet meet the ideal image.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u104	As I said, I am pleased that the Commission is building on the commitment of the Netherlands last year. At that time, that observation, which Mrs Ouwehand rightly quotes, was already made. So it is really good that the Commission is here now, if I may put it that way. In response to Mrs Ouwehand's question, I took a look at the statements made by Commissioner Timmermans. By the way, we're not gonna play word games. I'm just gonna answer. However, in the quote I have, he says that CETA is just an example of what it should be like. This might be a bit of an exegesis. We have established that this was in this Chamber, by the way, so I would like to briefly mention that a number of important changes have been incorporated into the agreement with Canada in relation to previous treaties. Then it is indeed about the multilateral court. It is also about not diving under all kinds of values, standards and standards that Europe has set. In Europe, CETA is seen as one, you might say, gold standard. If the Cabinet feels that CETA does not meet our requirements, it should have acted differently. That's what I've been saying. I also said that the good thing about this agreement with the Canadians is that the Canadians, like us, see that such a multilateral court has not yet been crystallized enough to include it. That is something we can talk about at a later date. So I'm not going to repeat the debate. I think that is what I said to Mrs Ouwehand at the time, and I repeat that. I hope we can get together, let me just say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u105	Part of it is true, of course, what the Minister says. From her own ministry she also started a dialogue, but the end of the song was that the Netherlands simply accepted the text as it was, while other countries with unilateral agreements, appendices, have changed things. So it seems that the Dutch cabinet says that there was room for improvement, but that it has not dragged it in and that it is going on anyway. That's a crazy position. Commissioner Timmermans has indeed pretended to be the best example, but he has also said that it does not yet meet the ideal image. If we all agree that international free trade agreements should be fair and sustainable and that this is not quite the case at the moment, why should we continue to do so? It is not that easy to make the world fairer and more sustainable. Anything we can take and whatever helps us, we need to tackle. Anything that gets in the way, even if it's just something that's strawberry, we shouldn't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u106	Let's have a factual observation. The Walloon Parliament has indeed said that it wants to have a kind of double guarantee for a number of matters contained in the Treaty. So the treaty has not been amended, but it has been repeated in every detail what was in that treaty. The Netherlands has taken a very consistent position in this regard. As far as Mrs Ouwehand's second question is concerned, of course she is absolutely right that a fair and just world order is a long and not an easy way. Apart from any political differences you may have on this subject, I am of course very much in the process of examining the call I made on the three points. How can you further translate them into concrete action points that you can take with you, for example in negotiating mandates? I hope that I will also have the opportunity to zoom in and debate this specifically with the Chamber. But that doesn't mean that you have to leave the good when you're on the road to something better, especially when you know that it's about living treaties and that the Canadians, for example, have said that they're very keen to talk about it. That's what we're doing now about the multilateral court. So I feel that Mrs Ouwehand and I, although the distance seems to have remained the same, have approached each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u107	The Minister mentioned that on June 1, 2016, coincidentally, that those dates were discussed about the resetting of those trade agreements. I think it is very good that we have certain values, certain requirements, but what status does the wish list on which the Minister has just referred, which should actually be taken into account in the negotiations on TTIP when it starts again? Is that a memo, a rag, or does that also have a formal status, which is really given as a framework in the future negotiations on TTIP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u108	It's a lot to ask of me that I should qualify a note that I myself thought was pretty good as a rag, so I'm not gonna do that. But it is not yet the official position of the European Council, Mr Amhaouch is absolutely right. That is also why I have just said that as far as the Netherlands is concerned, if the Americans were to meet our demands, there would have to be a new or adapted mandate. These principles should, in our opinion, be incorporated much more clearly; not included but incorporated. I am now, of course, strongly encouraged by the paper of the European Commission in which it builds on it. So my commitment, but here I am a little hampered by the missionary status of the cabinet and also by new relations in other countries, on the last day I am allowed to stand here, is to find supporters in the European Council. I am very hopeful about that and therefore I feel even more strengthened by what the Chamber gives me here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u109	The Minister has our support, because Europe is a great exporter to America, so we can take control of it ourselves. I think it is important that this paper gets formal status and has broad support. I'm not saying it's a rag, I'm asking what status this paper has. So we support the Minister's efforts to get broad support for it, which is supported by the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u110	Of course, I didn't start my maiden speech on the gold standard that the SER sees for TTIP for nothing. Because there was a thing with that gold standard. That has become a stone expression, but the beauty of it was that a number of things were linked, namely gold and money, and the fact that it was worldwide. It is, of course, interesting that a golden standard is described as suitable for European trade policy, but the key to trade agreements is, of course, that they are much broader and that you are trying to apply these standards not only to our region, but also to the rest of the world. That was, of course, the background to my comments. On TTIP, I have this question to the Minister. In your reply, you also referred to the cabinet section on the ESC opinion. I took another look at that. You say the thought behind TTIP is I paraphrase some of it to promote trade without affecting our current level of human, animal, plant and environmental protection. In such terms, there are more phrases in it. I'm not really so interested in it that it doesn't affect that level, but that you're promoting it to get better. That also has to do with a kind of mindset and with the way you put it in. I would like another response from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u111	I fully agree with Mrs Diks and it is also all about moving insight, partly through the debates we have had in the Chamber. I also see Mr Van Ojik sitting here, who has been actively involved. Making sure something doesn't go down or harm something is pretty good, but you want more. For example, with regard to the impact of trade agreements on developing countries, the usual starting point was that these countries should not suffer any disadvantages; however, I have always said that I want them to benefit from them. That reset is precisely what Mrs Diks is asking for, namely: up with that standard and ensure that when relevant international conventions are concluded, they are the world's gold standard for that kind of agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u112	I am not going to make a second maiden speech, although Mr Van Ojik asked for it, but I probably shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u113	All this can be seen on Debate Miss, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u114	The Minister himself referred to the discussion we had yesterday about IMVO. What we have also talked about, of course, is that there must be a time limit when you are talking to each other voluntarily about improving conditions. From the committee we have indicated that it would be wise to think more about legislation and regulations. How does the Minister see this in relation to TTIP?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u115	That's complicated to answer, because TTIP is in the freezer in the basement and I can't find the key. So if I can answer this question for trade agreements in general, that helps me. We are not even getting to what Mrs Diks is asking me about TTIP, because there is still a long way to go before that. For the sustainability chapters in particular, there are still real steps to be taken in the way in which they are binding. We have talked about this before in the Chamber, and that is what the investigation is about: how could you do that better? I agree with Mrs Diks that it is a good thing to achieve this in all kinds of bilateral agreements that the EU is concluding, but it would of course be much better if you could also bring that into the WTO. It is also always the commitment of the Netherlands and the European Commission to further strengthen sustainability paragraphs. These paragraphs do not only apply to nature and the environment, but also to human rights. It is not an easy road, but it is our commitment. Mrs Diks began her maiden speech, which I now also say to Mr Van Ojik, telling her about her background. Her father was a dairy farmer and she has seen the concentration in the Dutch dairy industry from her own experience. I can't resist it; my father was a milkman and of course I saw exactly the same thing, first a very small milk factory that brought the milk twice a day until the big giants said: bringing that milk every day, we can't get started, you're just building a cooler in your shed. I shall also speak with Mrs Diks about this at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u116	I'm sure she's looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u117	I notice that the Minister is happy to agree with the MPs today. So that's what I'm looking for. I have a question about the reset in trade agreements. The Minister wants it to be more sustainable and more social. That's what I'm for. She also wants it to be more transparent and more open. Now there is a good opportunity when it comes to the treaty with Japan that is currently being negotiated. It is already being discussed to make that negotiating mandate public. Is the Minister prepared to work in Brussels to make that public, so that we can all watch?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u118	In general, the Netherlands always advocates the publication of mandates and the EU's commitment. That's still my bet. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dan ook niet anders dan het met de heer Hijink eens zijn.]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u119	Then the Minister continues to answer some more specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u120	Yes, Chairman, and thank you for that opportunity. Mr Amhaouch asked how the EU would respond to the withdrawal of TPP. In fact, he also asked that question in his interruption. There are therefore opportunities for Europe to conclude fair and sustainable trade agreements with a number of trading blocs. With a number of TPP countries such as Canada, Chile, Peru, Singapore and Vietnam, there are already treaties or treaties under negotiation. This also applies to countries such as Australia, Malaysia, Mexico and New Zealand. Ms Becker spoke about the assessment and SMEs. It is good practice to have studies of what a trade agreement would mean before the negotiations begin. This is broken down into different sectors. Reference has already been made to Ecorys and SEO studies, but more specific assessments are often made. Mrs Becker asked if there was a need for an additional assessment. To be honest, the cabinet does not see its added value, because there is always a lot of material available that we can all freely draw from to reach a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mrs Becker has a brief follow-up question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u122	My question was also what a trade agreement actually means for a Dutch entrepreneur. The agreement will, of course, be concluded at EU level and can have a different impact on many different sectors. I can imagine that many analyses are already available. My question was also how we inform entrepreneurs and whether the Minister thinks we are doing enough now through the Chamber of Commerce and the country pages of RVO. Or can we do something more, so that entrepreneurs really take advantage of the opportunities offered by new agreements to be concluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u123	I found a few weeks ago that there is room for improvement in the provision of information. We find that many entrepreneurs and SMEs in particular will not always be aware of what such an agreement can mean for them and what opportunities exist. We have a targeted action plan, with meetings - there will undoubtedly be another app - to improve the provision of information. By the way, of course, we can always be approached. I would like to say to Mrs Becker that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u124	I am very pleased with that commitment. Thank you to the Minister for that. Can the Minister state the state of play and what actions are being taken to better inform entrepreneurs so that the Chamber can look into it? As far as I am concerned, this does not have to be done in a separate letter, but could perhaps be done in a progress report or in a letter that the Minister is going to send us for one of the debates we are having.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u125	I'd be happy to say so. I believe that a consultation on trade promotion is planned in the autumn. That seems to me to be an excellent time to send something in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u126	There is also a question from Mrs Van Weerdenburg. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u127	About the previous point. Apparently, there is still room for improvement from the Action Plan in the provision of information to entrepreneurs. Does the Minister also consider that there is room for improvement in the provision of information to citizens, as the VVD has just argued?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u128	Sure, I just reported that, too. Four years ago there was actually very little talk about trade agreements except in this kind of halls, so to speak. I can even remember that I sometimes offered an opinion piece to a newspaper about TTIP, for example, and then the newspaper said: yes, but what are we supposed to do with that, what is this really about? I think that much more needs to be said about it. One of the ways in which information has improved in recent years is that there has been greater openness on the negotiating documents. Because they are often very technical, we have provided further explanations on the Dutch website. I am always prepared to debate with anyone about what this means. I agree with Mrs Van Weerdenburg that everyone, whether we have a microphone or not, should have access to that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u129	Do you therefore believe that the opponents are currently being misled by disinformation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u130	We've had the issue of the chlorine chicken. I'm sure Mrs Van Weerdenburg remembers that. There a ghost image was conjured up that had no relation to what could actually happen. Those concerns were already removed before they were expressed, because the European Commission had said that this would never happen. She said that a little more diplomatic, by the way. We have our own standards and standards in this area and we are not going to change that. I am very much in favour of people being able to rely on many different sources of information. I believe that the public authorities should also have a say in this and should also be able to provide information. We need to talk here about what is and isn't actually true. It's not good if there's any misunderstandings. I have every willingness to discuss it with anyone at any time, if it fits in with the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you very much. The Minister has thus come to the end of her reply. We're moving on to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs. In view of the time, I would like to try to finish at 1.30 p.m. There is also a second deadline, in which some of the Members may wish to make a contribution. I would ask Members, in particular, to keep the interruptions brief. Sometimes they're pretty long after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mr. Chairman. I also naturally congratulate Mrs Diks, Mrs Van Weerdenburg and Mr Hijink, who were allowed to make their maiden speech. That's always a very special moment. I remember that myself, although it's been a while. This debate was requested, I believe, two years ago. The issue was very topical at the time. As the Minister for Foreign Trade has just pointed out, this is a discussion on a possible treaty that is currently in the fridge of negotiations. I hear the Minister say "freezer." I never really know whether to say refrigerator, freezer or fridge. It seems to have been studied by entire tribes. At least I understood that the negotiations are somewhere in the basement and the key is missing. It is therefore clear that the current situation has been somewhat reversed in the past period. Minister Ploumen had a frequent exchange of views with the Chamber and other trade agreements. Where it affects my portfolio, we have always built up together in connection with the link with important standards, such as food safety, animal welfare and sustainability. A number of Members made a few comments on this subject. If I have counted correctly, two questions have been asked in my direction, which I am naturally happy to answer. In general, let me say that I believe that the line of the cabinet is well known and has not changed either. I hope that another cabinet will be able to maintain the high level of protection of humans, animals, plants and the environment in the EU. The House can therefore assume that as long as we are here, we will make sure that trade agreements do not undermine that high level of protection. The European Commission has also consistently stated that European standards should not be reduced within TTIP. The Netherlands attaches great importance to the high standards. Let me be clear about this: within the EU, both in the Trade Council and in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council, Minister Ploumen and I have always asked for ambitious agreements in animal welfare and sustainability trade agreements, with the aim of raising standards in the countries with which these trade agreements are concluded. The Netherlands has really been one of the pioneers in this. Thanks to the Netherlands, animal welfare is now also standardized in every mandate for new negotiations and the European Commission is also actively working on this. This was already the case for sustainability in general. Previously, in the cabinet response to the ESC opinion, the Chamber was able to read that the cabinet felt that the risk of undermining European policy in the field of animal welfare and the environment should be avoided by giving additional benefits to products that had been produced on the basis of lower standards. Mrs Ouwehand asked how to achieve these goals for sustainable agriculture when there is free trade. Perhaps this can be done precisely with the commitment I have just formulated, also in the hope that it will force higher standards elsewhere. We are trying to make the high EU standards the norm and we are committed to ensuring that our standards are not undermined. This can be done, for example, by protecting a particular product line and certain sectors. You can use tariff quotas, step-by-step tariff reductions, exclusions from tariff reductions, etc. These are all options that are contained in the cabinet response I have just mentioned. In the EU's most recent trade agreements, it is possible to agree on animal welfare. I refer to trade agreements with South Korea and Vietnam. A good example is the agreement with Chile, which, following a trade agreement with the EU, introduced basic rules for animal husbandry and transport. Mrs Sazias and Mr Baudet both have the impression that the disadvantages of this type of trade agreement always fall on farmers. Fortunately, reality is different. The Netherlands is world famous for exporting cheese, milk powder to China and seed potatoes, for example. The vast majority of seed potatoes in the world come from the Netherlands. There is also an increasing interest in other food products and agricultural technology. On the contrary, the Dutch food and agri-food world is heavily dependent on international trade and is very strongly benefiting from it. Several studies have recently been carried out which show that this could also be the case in future trade agreements. There are many opportunities for the dairy industry in particular. It is an important sector for the Netherlands. For example, producers of beverages appear to benefit very much. Previous agreements have also explicitly created additional jobs in these sectors in Europe. Trade agreements with Switzerland, Mexico and South Korea have created some 20,000 additional jobs. To my knowledge, those were the questions that were asked to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u133	We have, of course, often discussed free trade agreements with the cabinet and the consequences for agriculture. Then it was always the Foreign Trade Minister who said that the Secretary of State of EZ was about it and the other way around. So I'm glad we can talk to them both at the same time today. The point is, of course, how hard will the standards we set be? Farmers themselves have no confidence in the fact that the free trade agreements, including CETA, really have standards at European level and that they do not have to be afraid of the import of cheap competitive farmers from Canada. There is also the question that I have put very explicitly to the Secretary of State. If you look at the sustainability profile for agriculture, if you look at the experiences of European free trade, you will see that it may take ten or twenty years for you to take a joint step towards, for example, improving animal welfare, increasing the living space of chickens. Twenty years of talking and the yield is the enlargement of the living space with the surface of an iPhone. That's how much space comes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u134	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u135	How does the Secretary of State see the task of making agriculture more sustainable in the light of the free trade agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u136	There is a major challenge for the sustainability of agriculture, as Mrs Ouwehand also knows from me, both in terms of climate and in terms of other environmental and landscape impacts. This will have to be done in the coming years within Europe and within the Netherlands with a great deal of ambition. It's not gonna be easy. There are really big steps to be taken. Mrs Ouwehand is always quite sceptical about the impact of international trade on this. It always assumes that it can only have negative effects. I don't see it that way. I think, on the contrary, that we can only bring about the sustainability challenges that exist in international cooperation, and international trade should be part of that. Today's full attention to the position of the current US government in relation to the climate agreement also shows that the whole world is concerned about what could come out today. We need international cooperation, which, in my opinion, is reinforced by international trade. This is also true in this area. Mrs Ouwehand always assumes that you can only pull each other down, but you can also pull each other up. That is precisely what this cabinet has been committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u137	A brief follow-up question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u138	The reality shows that even the Dutch government's ambitions to improve animal welfare in Europe are spacious on a block in Europe that is actually pulling things down. If you have experienced this and if we are going to have more free trade with other states now, when you know that it is already difficult to achieve your own sustainability challenge, is it easier, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, to take those steps yourself, or is it more difficult with free trade?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u139	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u140	And what's he basing that on? It's all comments from the loose wrist, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u141	So it depends on what kind of agreements you make in these free trade agreements. Mrs Ouwehand just referred to CETA. In my view, this agreement does not in any way jeopardise our commitment to animal welfare. In that agreement, where there could be a difference, there has been very careful action. Very cautious agreements have been made on this subject. It's not like the Cabinet doesn't recognize the risk of it happening. With free trade agreements you can make agreements that undermine your own commitment to the environment and animal welfare. The Cabinet has recognized that. In response to the ESC opinion, it also stated that our commitment will have to be active in order to avoid and avoid that risk. In this response to the ESC opinion, we have thus also mentioned a number of instruments that could be used to reduce that risk if additional free trade benefits are agreed for sectors where production standards are lower than ours. Their effects can be limited by instruments such as tariff quotas or keeping them outside the tariff measures. Those instruments can be used to mitigate that risk. The cabinet has recognised this and therefore also indicates what steps you could take to reduce that risk. But our commitment is always to avoid the risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u142	I am essentially asking the Secretary of State the same question as I just asked the Minister. It is not so much a question of avoiding and preventing and promoting such terms. I have mentioned the example of the EAEC Treaty, where we really see the advantage of limiting import levies in order to promote positively products which are good and which, for example, also satisfy better animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u143	I think that is entirely in line with the commitment I have just formulated. Our commitment is always: can you also, through trade agreements, make sure that we stick together instead of pulling each other down? Mrs Ouwehand sometimes rightly refers to differences of opinion within the European Union. They are certainly known in the field of animal welfare. That also means that it is sometimes a challenge to come to that. But the members are now talking to the Dutch cabinet, and our commitment is sure to achieve that. As I said, I hope it will also be that of another cabinet. But there are among the MPs who can have more influence on that than we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u144	This brings us to the end of the first-term answer to the questions put by the Chamber. We will continue with the second term of the Chamber. I can easily imagine that Mrs Ouwehand needs a second term, based on her activity in the Chamber. I give her the floor to do so. Speaking time is 1 minute and 40 seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that the negotiations on TTIP or parts thereof should be definitively discontinued,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1751]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u146	In case my first motion didn't make it, I'll also file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that TTIP will in any event not be possible if the Paris Climate Agreement is not implemented by all treaty partners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission reflects on international trade and recognises the need for a fairer and more sustainable view;]] [[points out that as long as the reflection on the fairness and sustainability of the European Commission's trading concept continues, no (new) free trade agreements can be concluded and/or ratified,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1752]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1753]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u147	Then I come to what this debate is about: the consequences for agriculture and the possibility, in reality, of achieving the sustainability challenge we have set ourselves in the light of free trade. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has set targets for the sustainability of agriculture, including the aim of improving animal welfare to the level at which animals can exhibit their natural behaviour;]] [[noting that free trade agreements may hinder the sustainable development of agriculture;]] [[calls on the government to clarify whether and, if so, how the sustainability of agriculture can be achieved in the light of free trade agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1754]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u148	I have one final comment to make. So it's not just about today's standards, it's about the perspective we've outlined for ourselves and how we're going to get there with greater international competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u149	Mr. Chairman. TTIP's in the freezer. Let's leave it there for a while. That does not alter the fact that we can prepare ourselves for a proper restart of the negotiations. The Minister has already indicated that the reset button has been pressed. We would very much appreciate it if the Minister would keep us informed of the Council's support, and if we could also use this positively-critically in the negotiations. America has announced that it wants to reflect on the possibility of creating trade barriers towards Germany in relation to the automotive industry. Mr Trump is angry that there is a trade surplus towards the US. If that happens, what resources do we have in Europe? Do we have something like NATO Article 5? Because if it happens today in the car industry in Germany, it could happen tomorrow in agriculture or in agriculture and horticulture. I would like a brief answer from the Minister. How are we gonna act on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u150	I wonder if NATO provides for an attack by one of its own members, but that aside. I see that Mr Bouali and Mrs Diks do not need a second term. I call Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u151	Mr. Chairman. In response to the statements made by the US Trade Minister, this Minister is far from optimistic about possible new negotiations. Only if the Americans are prepared to accept the EU's list of requirements in advance can we talk about a possible agreement. So it's swallowing or choking for Trump. That's obvious. Can the Minister guarantee that that message will be conveyed so loudly and clearly to the Americans? Has anyone called Mrs Malmström yet? Because for the same reason, it's already on its way to the basement to open the freezer. The Minister says that transparency is essential in the context of the negotiations on this type of trade agreement. But if you want real transparency, you have to sit at the table and send the message to the interlocutor yourself, and not leave it to unelected Brussels bureaucrats who speak on behalf of 28 countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr. Chairman. There are still two important points that have not been addressed in the first period. Firstly, this is the decision of the European Commission to throw the Stop TTIP citizens' initiative, signed by 3 million EU citizens, into the trash. It is quite right that this arrogance of the Commission has been recognised and annulled by the European Court, but what are the consequences for CETA? Does the Minister agree with the SP Group that CETA cannot enter into force for the time being, until the Commission has indicated what this ruling means for CETA? The other point is the new Dutch model for bilateral investment treaties that the Minister is currently working on. As far as the SP is concerned, it is very important that we have a strong public and political debate on this new BIT model, which is leading the re-negotiation of our bilateral trade agreements. Well, that's a tough thing to do when this treaty is kept confidential by the Cabinet. Does the reset button which the Minister proposes also apply to our own trade agreements, or do I miss something? In order to encourage the Minister, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is currently reviewing the model for bilateral investment agreements (model BIT);]] [[noting the lack of transparency and openness of this process and the documents in question;]] [[considers that there should be a well-informed public and political debate on this new BIT model;]] [[calls on the Government to make the BIT model public before starting new negotiations with other countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1755]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u153	I have 18 seconds before the final motion. It's about the treaty with Japan that we were just talking about. The Minister has promised to work for transparency. That's not quite enough for me. I'd like to give her an incentive in the right direction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands should play a leading role in the transparency of trade agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to make an effort to fully public the negotiating mandate for the EU-Japan Treaty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1756]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr. Chairman. We have had a debate today on the possible effects of TTIP on the poultry industry. It was requested two years ago following reports that the EU would be flooded by the foreign chicken industry. It is good that we have had this debate with each other today and that we have been able to correct the ghost stories. These are not dealt with in trade agreements. On the contrary, such agreements offer enormous opportunities for jobs and jobs in the Netherlands and Europe. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is good that the EU remains open to this, despite the fact that TTIP is in the fridge, and that we continue to make full use of other trade agreements, such as with South Korea, Singapore and Canada. The trade agreement with Japan is now also on the verge of being concluded. This could lead to 96 billion extra trade for the EU. These are positive developments. The VVD encourages the Minister to remain positive about this. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister very much for her commitment to improve the provision of information to entrepreneurs, particularly SMEs, on the opportunities offered by trade agreements. It is important that we conclude agreements that increase trade and export opportunities, but it is even more important that entrepreneurs then find their way there. I thank the Minister for that and I continue to follow with interest what that will yield.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u155	Thank you very much. I see Mrs. Kuiken is refusing a second term. I call Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr. Chairman. It is particularly interesting what the implications of the European Court rulings on TTIP will be. In any case, 50PLUS believes that a treaty that can have so much impact on citizens should always go to the national parliament. We are also very pleased that the Minister is committed to furthering the principles of the reflection paper Harnessing globalisation. To help her, we're filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the negotiation process around TTIP needs to be more transparent and TTIP can be more focused on sustainable, economic, social, environmental and health standards;]] [[calls on the government to take the "progressive" trade and investment strategy as proposed by the European Commissioners Timmermans and Katainen as a starting point for any continuation of negotiations on TTIP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1757]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u157	I would like to give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to deal with the motions. If there is another motion she would like to leave to her colleague, I leave it to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u158	Mr. Chairman. There is indeed a motion, the motion in part No. 1754, which will be judged by Secretary of State Van Dam. The motion in part No. I should like to dissuade Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Hijink from 1751 because, of course, that was the subject of the debate. Where are we now with the negotiations and where do we see opportunities to move them in our direction on the basis of a revised mandate? To the motion in part No. I have watched for a long time, I say to Mrs Ouwehand. I'm really a little in dubio about that. I'm going to propose to her to hold the motion. I'm asking because there's so much unclear at this time. On the one hand, the cabinet is outgoing and so I have a different position vis-à-vis my colleagues in the Council, while I know that there is quite a lot of support for it. On the other hand, there are the current debates surrounding the climate agreement. I don't want to accidentally break something we might have kept together. If Mrs Ouwehand wishes to continue the motion, I would be delighted. I would like to assure her that as soon as possible before, for example, an informal Trade Council, I will outline the positions around the reset that the Netherlands has asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u159	I'll think about it for a while. The motion also contains no request to the government, but a ruling from the Chamber. I deliberately chose to do it this way. But I understand the Minister's appeal. I'll let you know before the vote if I hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u160	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u161	Yes, thank you very much. The motion in part No. 1753 I would advise against, also because it is a little superfluous. The debate on reflection is ongoing. I do not see how the motion will be helpful in helping to continue that debate. The motion in part No. 1754 I leave to colleague Van Dam. The motion in part No. 1755 on the publication of the model text is policy support. That's what I'd love to do. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. That also applies to the motion for a resolution on item No. 1756. I feel supported by it in Brussels. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1757 of 50PLUS. I consider them to be policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u162	Thank you very much. Then we will listen to Secretary of State Van Dam for his opinion on the motion in part No. 1754, tabled by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr. Chairman. It is nice to be able to conclude this debate with a motion in my area. I'm going to make Mrs Ouwehand, I hope, a little happy too. I'm happy to do what she asks. I would like to agree that we will make that clear when there are concrete talks about a trade agreement. Then we will also make it clear how the agreement in question can contribute to the sustainability of agriculture. With that interpretation, I could even take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u164	I'll take a look at Mrs. Ouwehand first. Can she live with the interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u165	First of all, I would like to say that Mrs Diks wants to sign the motion. I imagine the Secretary of State would like to assess it by agreement. At the same time, however, there is a broader and longer-term statement for agriculture, and we must also look at the overall field. So I am a little hesitant as to whether this is the most sensible way forward and whether we should also look at how we can achieve sustainability in the light of all the different free trade mandates that we then conclude. I have a slightly different interpretation from the Secretary of State, where we meet halfway, I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u166	If Mrs Ouwehand wants us to make a kind of general break, she can always do so, but she doesn't have much to do with that, because it only becomes interesting when it becomes concrete. A free trade agreement with the US is of a very different order than a free trade agreement with Canada, to mention just two concrete examples. If you give a concrete picture of how this treaty can contribute to the sustainability of agriculture, it will be interesting. Again, we can make anything that the Chamber asks for. But if Mrs Ouwehand asks for a general piece, it doesn't really give her that much information. Then it will be a kind of general talk paper, and I do not think that is what Mrs Ouwehand is waiting for. That is why I said that I want to do it for all concrete situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u167	I'll express my fear. It is the whole field that agriculture is facing and in which we need to achieve sustainability. If you add up all the free trade agreements individually, the overall picture may be slightly different. I do not want us to lose the full view of the field, and I therefore hesitate to go along fully with the interpretation of the Secretary of State. But we can also put the motion to the vote. If the Secretary of State is willing to do it by agreement anyway, that's awesome. But then, with this motion, we'll keep an eye on the integrity a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u168	Let me look at the Secretary of State, because Mrs Ouwehand's interpretation does not exactly correspond to the interpretation of the Secretary of State. I can imagine that acceptance is not the issue and it is a matter of voting on it in the Chamber. Or does the Secretary of State still say: I can live with Mrs Ouwehand's interpretation and I stick to my proposal to take over the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u169	I find it useful if we understand each other well. Both the Cabinet and the Chamber must keep an eye on integrity. If Mrs Ouwehand expects us to do a very separate piece for that, I would say: put the motion to the vote. Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. We'd be happy to, but it's okay if there's a request from the Chamber before that. However, if she is happy that every time a specific trade agreement is discussed, we will be able to see how it can contribute to the sustainability of agriculture and keep an overall view of it, I would be able to accept the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u170	I'm gonna take another look at Mrs. Ouwehand. Which of the two interpretations is it going to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u171	It's gonna be the first one. If the motion doesn't make it, we know what the Secretary of State himself said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u172	The best of both worlds, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u173	And since the Secretary of State himself has indicated his willingness to do so, I'm sure he will. But the verdict on the motion is therefore up to the Chamber. The motion will be included in the voting list and it will be noted that Mrs Diks is a co-signator of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-01-tweedekamer-3.u174	The votes are next Tuesday. I would like to thank the directors very much and thank the spokesmen and all the public, both here and at home.
