ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate and Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, and then for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. This is for the viewers at home. A warm word of welcome to the Minister. We're gonna spend some time on this. I would like to welcome all the spokesmen. I hope that we can limit the number of interruptions in this period to three per group. I think you can do that, because you want to interrupt the Minister in particular. Then tomorrow you will be very sharp for the Minister and we can keep it short and pointy tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u2	The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Graus of the Party for Freedom. He's gonna talk to us for 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to welcome some visitors. They even come from New York, but they also live partly in Eindhoven. Those are Lonneke Engel, a former top model, Neerlands pride and one of the most beautiful women we've ever had, and her help dog Bane. I specifically asked the President of the Chamber, but Bane is in the public gallery there. I'll be right back to why Bane's here. Of course, I would also like to welcome her husband Dirk. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say something about our farmers, because LNV includes farmers, gardeners, fishermen and also animals, which, of course, I am going to talk about a lot. But I've always worked for our farmers. Almost all farmers, gardeners and fishermans complain about their earning model. I have therefore tabled a motion on this matter. It has been supported by the whole Chamber, thank you for that, ladies and gentlemen, but the farmers have so far seen little of it. We finally have a minister, a farmer's daughter, and I have great faith in that. That is what I have always had in Secretary of State Dijksma; I must admit that. I am very confident that the Minister will do something about this as a farmer's daughter. There are a lot of amendments that have been adopted, including for the benefit of farmers, growers and fishermen, not just for the benefit of animals. I'd like something done with that. So what about the better earning model, at the expense of the powerful and wealthy retailers? What is this minister going to do about the lack of a level playing field in the single European market? For our farmers, like us, are among the largest net contributors per capita, but they are not the biggest net recipients. I understand that with our money every now and then even jeu-de-boules are being built in Romania. I don't know if it is, but you hear it sometimes. I do know that a lot of money is leaking out of here, which means that our farmers, who have always been at the forefront, are financing their own competition. Because we have a growing level of animal welfare here, and now our money and farmers' money are simply facilitating false competition in countries where they still have to invent animal welfare. What's the Minister gonna do about it? What the farmers run into very badly is the point of the Dutch manure. That's a valuable building, soil and energy, not waste. With us, manure is seen as a waste. It's brown gold, rich in scarce phosphates. Humans and animals need phosphates to bind oxygen. So far, we've imported it from China. The Chinese have stopped. They think: their own people first. And the Moroccan mines are exhausted, so we have to do something about it. So why don't we extract nitrates and phosphates ourselves? I have also been promised this by several predecessors. Let's also do something with the rest of the brown gold. We can turn it into energy pellets and other building and raw materials. At least we don't have to look at manure as waste anymore. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. In this way farmers can save enormous costs. And go do something about the lobby of the fertilizer trade. I think he has a big finger on him in Brussels. We want reclamation and optimum use of manure, without obstacles from Brussels. The VAT increase is gonna ruin everything, so we don't want it. We want a level playing field, so what about the countries around us? I think the situation is very unbalanced. There must be a level playing field. What's the Minister gonna do about it? We want a level playing field that protects the Dutch market from false competition and from a false climate and environmental policy, which also destroys our farmers. What I say, of course, also applies to our fishermen; farmers, farmers and fishermen. What will the Minister do about the rescue plan for the IJsselmeer fishermen? Those are primordial Dutch boys who never held their hands up. Is the fund requested by them feasible? Where is the Minister going to get the financial coverage? In the case of NVWA, the Food and War Authority, the budget has been increased by 25 million, but that makes no sense without recidivism. Whether the NVWA runs into food fraudsters or animal executioners, we ask for taking-and-shaming and closure of the company. Ein Berufsverbot! That's what the Germans always say. When we say "probation" it sounds a bit like that. But it's a Berufsverbot, prison sentences and towering fines that relate to the crime, so they just don't make the crime attractive. Where is the promised follow-up campaign to raise the awareness of 144 Red an animal? I was allowed to attend this morning's awards to two animal police officers. They were awarded the Ida Silver Cleansing Prize for their commitment. I'm very proud of those people, the animal policemen at the front. What is the Minister going to do so that they have only one task accent: animal welfare? 'Cause they can't handle the reports anymore. They really can't handle the 144 reports. There was also a master of the central 144 Red an animal. That is only known to 30% of the people and already tens of thousands of reports are coming in. The first year it was over 100,000 reports. What's the Minister gonna do about this? That was promised to me by her colleagues in the field of Justice and Security. That used to be Security and Justice; it can cost. But I've been promised all of that. So when's the campaign coming? There are state-approved animal enclosures that refuse 144. That's a purely political game. They're not dealing with animals, they're just bullying because this is coming from me. Each ambulance needs just 144 Red with an animal, the national emergency number. If you refuse, you're not trying to save animals. Because that's our national emergency number, set by the state. So if animals refuse, you just don't have to certify them. I think the Minister should intervene. Every Dutch animal ambulance must, if certified, comply with 144 Red an animal, our national emergency number. We also ask that, as in the United States, oxygen caps for animals be facilitated for the benefit of Fireweather Netherlands and certified animal enclosures. Some people at home will laugh now, but you and the minister will see the images on Hart van Nederland. Then you see a firefighter with such a huge oxygen cap pulling out a dog or kitten resuscitating it from a burning house. Why don't they get those little caps they do have in America? Why? Why don't we? That's not the money. There are even companies that want to sponsor that. I believe that the government should impose and facilitate this. Because animals are part of a family. They have as good a right as humans to be rescued from a burning house and ventilated. Animals are no less than humans. In fact, whether you believe in evolution or in the story of creation, this is a religious minister of animals were there even before humans. And we're allowed to live with the animals. Guys, come on, let's do something about that! I would also like the Veterinary Forensic Team, the VFT, which is working closely with the animal police of the national police, to be involved in our National Animal Abuse Expertise Centre. That LED was opened last week. One of the directors of your ministry spoke there. That lady is here today: thank you for the fine words! Why does the only Veterinary Forensic Team throughout Europe, which we have in the Netherlands, become the only veterinary forensic doctor in the Netherlands who has also graduated as a veterinary forensic doctor? Why not? Is that because I asked? You're not gonna involve the only expert you have in a LED, are you? That's all childish, isn't it? In fact, that lady wasn't even invited and I wasn't allowed to be there when I tabled a motion for that LED a few years ago. That's crazy. I wasn't even allowed to access my own LED. Something really has to be done about that, Minister, I ask through the President. These are political games. Those people aren't supposed to be on those posts. Also at Utrecht University, the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, no political games can be played. I'm committed to animals and everyone just has to accept that. And if the government orders it, they shouldn't hinder it. I won't allow that either, Mr. Chairman. I'm actually really willing to press charges if I get treated like that one more time. I think that's just outrageous. I'm normal with everyone from left to right, so they have to do the same to me. I'd have liked to have had a reaction to it. Why is the Veterinary Forensic Team being kept out of the door at the Animal Abuse National Expertise Centre? Why aren't the two VFT experts working with the NFI? That's what the CDA wants. It's in the coalition agreement, on page 62 if I'm not mistaken. But no, in the Netherlands we prefer to work with clinical pathologists rather than with forensic pathologists. That's crazy, isn't it? You can't explain that to anyone, can you? I'd like a response. We would have liked to have a low VAT rate for veterinarians and medications. Where's the minister gonna get that cover? I have one and a half employees. Now there happen to be two, but one counts for a half with me, though not as a person. But please help me: how are we going to do that, especially when it comes to emergency medication? It's not possible that we're gonna beat people in the neck with that, is it? We can't do that, I'll tell the minister. I would have liked an update of the stable fire prevention plan, following an approved Graus motion, and a trial with Stable Safe for escape routes during fire. Hundreds of thousands of animals die from barn fires. Why isn't that trial stall being facilitated? I've been asking for that for years. Stalin fires are often caused by plague and plague cables. Dr. Weijman is an expert on gnat burning. I asked you years ago to involve Dr. Weijman. Two leaders for this minister promised me this. The Ministry of Economic Affairs, again called LNV, simply does not contact that man, while I was promised as a member of the States General. Mr President, that is unacceptable, and every Member should support me in this. I'm asking for something as a member of the States General. I often speak on behalf of more than 1 million people. When it comes to animal welfare, I often even speak on behalf of 80%, 90% of the Dutch population. I think this should be taken a little more seriously. I trust this minister will do so. So Dr. Weijman needs to get involved in the barn fire prevention plan as a gnawing expert. I would like to receive an update of the stable fire prevention plan and of the possibilities to do a test with Stable Safe, which allows the animals to flee. Sprinklers are not helping with everything; perhaps Mrs Lodders is about to bring that up. Do you know what it is? Sprinklers give you smoke development that causes animals to choke. So you have to let them leave. If you will excuse me, Mr President, I will answer Mrs Lodder's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u4	You're sympathetic. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr Graus thinks I'm going to ask a question about sprinklers, but no, not this time. Mr. Graus quotes the gnaw fires.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u6	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u7	I believe that we have included something about this in the coalition agreement. How does Mr Graus look at rodent control? Over the past few years we have put it on a very low tip and pushed a little further away from us. There were all kinds of good reasons for this. But we're seeing an increase in the number of barn fires. We see rodents being a nuisance. How does Mr Graus view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u8	I once tabled a motion on this: prevention as the best biocidal product. We had a mouse plague here, too. What's going on? They're all poisons and traps. Nonsense. You just have to make sure those animals don't come in. You need to clean up MPs' mess and not leave it there, because it attracts animals. What happened? The Chamber has responded. They started it. We're out of mice, but we never set one trap. I took them away from my department. The Party for Animals has done the same. I've set traps in which they live. I caught two of them, which I let go three miles from here. We are no longer affected by mice, purely by prevention and by the fact that we no longer leave the mess behind but clean it up. You'll have to start with that first. It is often, even at farms, preventable. That's why I want Dr. Albert Weijman, an authority when it comes to pestilence and pestilence, and to gnaw...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u9	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u10	Yes, but, Mr President, if you have been asking for this for five years, and that man was only quickly called last week because of the fear that I would bring it up for the eighth time, I find it a disgrace. Really. You can't handle MPs like that anymore, can you? I'm not blaming this minister because she's just here. I spent a number of years in the Chamber with this minister. She was always honest and correct, and I trust she will now. But I want to be able to say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u11	Finally, Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u12	When it comes to prevention, I think that we in the Chamber can do something about it. I do my very best, but I still notice that there is a mouse out there every now and then. But I find it more problematic in livestock farming. There you can't close every nook and cranny so you keep mice and rats out. There is really a need for something more than those prevention measures. Is Mr Graus also prepared to ensure that farmers and gardeners, whom he has high regard for, can enter into that rodent control as professionals himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u13	No, there's only one professional, and that's Dr. Albert Weijman. He should be consulted on how to prevent a gnawing fire on a farm. You have no expertise in this matter. Nor am I. Neither is the minister nor the chairman. I say it quite honestly: I am not expert on the matter either. I've been asking for five years to involve Dr. Weijman, but it's not happening. That's not gonna happen to me. Why isn't it happening? It's just bashing a PVV room member. It's outrageous. You shouldn't shake no, because it's true. I'm sick of this shit. Hundreds of thousands of animals have gone to hell. I find that shameful. We in the Netherlands are an underdeveloped country when it comes to animal welfare. You're welcome to know that. It's killing me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u14	You have 30 seconds of pure speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u15	Our secretary, Mr Bosma, will allow me to speak for a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u16	That's a huge softie, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mr President, at least I am going to try to finish in two or three minutes. Why is Bane in the bleachers? Bane is a support dog from New York. He supports Lonneke Angel with her PTSD. He even took Lonneke Engel out of a certain isolation, out of a certain agoraphobia. Bane is an American staff fortress. Those dogs they gave here until 2008, 2009 just shots if they didn't have any papers, because they were dangerous. There's the good guy in the bleachers. They're very stable dogs. I want to say something about that. These dogs are severely deficient in the Netherlands. My first political success was the RAD, the Aggressive Animal Scheme, which Mrs Verburg arranged for me. Stop it. Go after the owners and not the dogs that are being fake. Now they are going to start a raid again against that staffford and those pit bull-like dogs with a slightly higher jaw strength. But, you guys, stop it. These are much more stable. I also bet it would be a much better police dog than the Magicians we have. I'm really appealing to the Minister. I hope you have some time to get to know Bane and Lonneke. I'm going to be very committed to this. I want those staffors out of the dock. We can't just breed dogs... that's animal racism. We can't let that happen. Those dogs often come into the house with the wrong people, but then go after those guys and don't give the dog shots. Those guys go to jail, and in case of bite incidents, a life-long ban on keeping animals. And if necessary, make sure that dog ends up at Graus or Gaus, Dion Graus or Martin Gaus, after a bite incident. And then you'll see that those dogs are gonna be really nice dogs. Animal serpents don't bite me because I make sure they don't bite me. So, Minister, please do something about it. I'm very worried. There's dogs in death row now, too. Seriously, go do something about it. It's too terrible for words. They're family members. Aid dogs are discriminated against here, Mr President. Certain taxi drivers, often from their faith, hate dogs. But you can't. This is the Minister of Animal Welfare. A support dog must not be refused. Look, our President-in-Office, Mrs. Arib, immediately cooperated. She sets a good example: a help dog is also welcome here. A support dog should be welcome everywhere, whether it's a guide dog or a PTSD dog, you name it. They should all be welcome. What about expatriated animals, including domestic violence? Stay away from my animal, the minister may have heard of it. Get in touch. I really hope the Minister agrees to this. Then I don't have to make a motion. Get in touch with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and Stay of My Animal. Animals impounded or to be placed after a case of domestic violence should be able to be collected for a maximum of two weeks, in cooperation with the municipality. Can the Minister respond to that? I'd really like that. And I hope that the Minister Staats van mijn Audience will pay or invite a visit, because they have a very big problem. Two final points, Mr President. I would have liked to keep the NVWA animal welfare team. That's a very specialised team that's in trouble, because it should actually have 5 to 10 fte. Can the Minister respond to that? For the positive list for animals, I had put Mrs Herpen as reptile expert. I would also like to involve Clifford Warwick as an expert. Can the Minister have him consulted by the Ministry officials? It's an expert from England who can help us very well. Finally, I would also like to know about the five motions adopted on the accelerated phasing-out of animal testing and testing. There are five motions passed, but what's going to happen to them? And what's gonna happen to all these monkeys? There are adopted motions from me, the Animal Party and, I believe, the PvdA. It's 1,600 monkeys! I've just come from Stichting AAP and they're already full of monkeys and other animals. Go help them! I would be very pleased if the Minister could visit that shelter, because I think it is one of the best animal shelters in Europe, perhaps, but at least in the Netherlands. For Stichting AAP we really need to do more, because there people work purely and correctly and not commercially. So far they have always been independent of the government; they want to be independent. I would very much like to have a reaction to that. Is the Minister prepared to take care of that and pay a visit to it? I forgot one thing, and that is that I want the Minister to refrain from introducing phosphate rights and the phosphate reduction plan. I am asking for these reasons, because I said: they are valuable substances; make them recoverable. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you! Then Mrs Lodders from the VVD Group. She has a speaking time of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Everyone in this house knows the fish stand here at the Buitenhof. I'd say this one's kind of in the household. Everyone knows him and I think that some new Members of Parliament have already been pointed out by colleagues who have been sitting for a long time. The fish stand is a beautiful company that has been in the Buitenhof for more than 25 years. It is a coming and going of all kinds of people: staff of the Chamber who get a cup of squabble during lunch, a minister on the way to a debate that quickly gets a mackerel sandwich and tourists who for the first time try our famous Dutch new outings. Sometimes they do so at risk for their own lives, because the gulls are as fond of fish as we are. But to catch a fish goes a lot ahead, something that most of us will not often think about. I am thinking of the fisherman who catches the fish for the day and dew, the people who clean and process the fish and, of course, the wholesale trade from where the fish arrives at the fish stand via the carrier. Every day we work very hard to ensure that we can eat that fish. And that goes not only for the fish of the fish farmer in the Buitenhof, but also for the baker who gets up at about four o'clock to bake bread for us. This applies to the farmer who ensures that the cows are milked in time and the gardener who ensures that the cucumber and tomatoes are in the shelves of the supermarket. Those are hard-working people who do not work from nine to five but 24 hours a day and seven days a week to feed us. High quality food and at a very affordable price! The agrofood sector is of great value to the Netherlands and the VVD is proud of that. We are proud to have sufficient and good food at our disposal every day. But we are also proud because the sector is of added value for BV Nederland. We are the world's second food exporter, while the Netherlands is the 135th country in terms of surface area. In this relatively small country, we exported for as much as 85 billion euros in 2016. Add to this technological exports, the sector is responsible for 22% of exports. This creates an enormous number of jobs: one in ten employees is active in this agri-food sector. These are a number of figures, and absolutely noteworthy figures, but perhaps it is even more important that the Dutch agri-food sector is a model for the rest of the world. "The small Netherlands has grown into an agriculture of size," a quote from the article recently published in National Geographic. They spoke with praise, but also with amazement, about the little Netherlands, which feeds the world. Let me give you an example. On average, the yield of one hectare of potatoes worldwide is around 9 tonnes. In the Netherlands it is between 40 and 50 tonnes. Last year, the last harvest, this was even higher. Or take the production of 1 kilo of tomatoes. Where a Spanish gardener needs an average of 60 litres of water for 1 kilo of tomatoes, his Western colleague, not far from here, needs only 4 litres of water on average. That is another good example from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u20	These are wonderful examples that Mrs Lodder here mentions. I would like to ask her whether she thinks it might be more important to raise the average potato production around the world, which she has just mentioned, instead of raising the already very high production per hectare in the Netherlands, which may even have to be reduced a little bit in favour of biodiversity and nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u21	My answer to that would be that I think that Dutch agriculture and horticulture should be the example for the rest of the world. The world looks to the Netherlands with praise. It is precisely our knowledge and expertise that I would like to export, so that this knowledge can be shared in the countries around us, because you are not in Europe, but certainly worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u22	The Netherlands does not feed the world. It's a pin button on the globe. It is an extremely small part of food production. Mrs. Lodders wasn't at the biodiversity round table. I was very sorry to hear that. Fortunately, she can still retrieve the information from her colleague Weverling. At that round table Professor Louise Vet answered the question "what do you think the Netherlands should export?': It seems to me a very bad thing if we are going to export our polluting, overly intensive farming methods around the world; we will have to change. What does Mrs Lodder think when an expert in this field has such a harsh opinion on Dutch agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u23	Well, I have a different opinion; the VVD has a different opinion on that. Mr Grashoff is well aware that we appreciate this intensive farming. I shall come back to that in a moment in my speech. Why do we appreciate it? It is true that the Netherlands does not feed the whole world. But we do need this sector in the Netherlands to ensure that farmers, gardeners and other entrepreneurs can innovate and we can also market that knowledge worldwide. Mr Grashoff pretends that we could produce less; perhaps that was also the intention of the expert, my colleague was present. I would like to remind Mr Grashoff of the challenge we face worldwide. The world's population is growing. In order to feed all the people in the world, food production must be minimally doubled. That is a really different message from what Mr Grashoff has said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u24	Very good. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u25	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. With innovations, farmers can provide higher yields per hectare, i.e. more food, with equal hectares of agricultural land. That is important not only because the world population is growing, I already indicated it, but also because more food is needed. In addition, it also has a lower impact on the environment and brings climate objectives closer. We can already see that the Dutch cow emits less methane per kilogram of milk than cows in the surrounding countries due to smart nutrition and high production. Pig farming managed to reduce ammonia emissions by 80% between 1990 and 2015. That's huge. Innovation will be the key word for agriculture and horticulture, and for nature and fisheries in the coming years. If we are to continue to lead the way and share our knowledge with the rest of the world, I say in the direction of Mr Grashoff, so that food production goes up there too, then we must give entrepreneurs the room for these innovations throughout the chain. Last year, at the initiative of the VVD, a hotline was opened where barriers to innovation and precision agriculture and unnecessary regulatory pressure can be reported. I would like to ask the Minister about the state of play. Almost by chance we have seen that the hotline is open. So my question is whether entrepreneurs will find it. Has it been brought to the attention of the public enough? How many reports have been made? And more importantly, what are the follow-up steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mrs Lodders is standing here screaming with pride about our beautiful agricultural sector. I understand that very well, because our agricultural sector is world leader and very innovative. But the downside is that our agricultural sector also causes too much environmental pressure and persistent problems with too much disease pressure. We are seeing biodiversity and the quality of nature decline and we are seeing animal welfare problems. What is the VVD's view of these problems, for which I do not think you can close your eyes? How does it really intend to tackle these problems and bring about a fundamental change in them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u27	I have chosen to use pride in this budget debate. We are very often having debates here about what is not going well, about what is not going well. If we also want to use this sector to bring climate objectives closer, for example, and I shall come to this later, then mutual pride or, at least, respect for each other's things is extremely important. That's why I'm starting with pride. Of course there are concerns. We must also take steps there, and we are also taking steps there, but it is not as serious as Mr Moorlag suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u28	I share that pride to a large extent. In itself, our agricultural sector is simply made up of hard-working people. I'm from North Groningen, and you can see that seed potatoes are exported to at least 70 countries around the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u29	Fantastic!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u30	But at the same time, surely the VVD Group cannot close its eyes to the problems I mentioned just now? We can't keep bumping on this road, from incident to incident and from scandal to scandal, can we? Isn't that bad for the sector too? How does the VVD intend to tackle this crisis, which is also in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u31	I would not like to speak of a crisis. Mr Moorlag says we walk from incident to incident. This seems to be the case here and there in the Chamber, but if we are debating a 2002 crisis here and pretending that it happened yesterday, you will create that image, yes! I believe that many measures are being taken and have been taken in relation to environmental objectives and climate objectives. We also have an ambitious agenda for this cabinet period. We heard it in the General Political Reviews: the greenest cabinet ever. So there are really big steps being taken. We are also in favour of this. For example, we don't introduce phosphate rights just because we like it. This has everything to do with the environmental impact and the agreements we made in Brussels. So it's not like we're doing nothing. Mr. Chairman. "A cleaner environment, more nature and prosperity for all? It can be done with compact cities, state-of-the-art agriculture and cheap, reliable, CO-free energy." This is a quote from the book Ecomodernism: The new thinking about green and growth, written by green thinkers and doers. The question asked is a good question, because who does not want it, a cleaner environment, more nature and prosperity for everyone? The vision of these green thinkers and doers is in line with my group's vision. The book deals with how our food remains affordable and retains its high quality and how you handle precious raw materials most efficiently. It is actually a warm plea for the usual efficient agriculture that we know in the Netherlands, a point for which the VVD has been making a strong effort for years, for a agriculture and horticulture in which many people deserve a living and in which we share our knowledge with the rest of the world. With efficient and intensive agriculture, there is more room for living and nature while our food production does not have to be compromised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u32	I think that's a D66's book.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u33	You said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u34	The concept of efficiency is at stake here. I think we have a misunderstanding about this, because the efficiency you mean is efficiency per product. I think you're right that we're the best in the world. The efficiency of the whole system we have in the Netherlands, on the other hand, is far below the measure and can really be improved. Look at the amount of food we're still wasting, both in the field and by consumers. There's a lot more we can get out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u35	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u36	You say more food must be produced. My point is that we need to get more of the existing fields: 70% more food, but not 70% more protein. My question is: do you see opportunities to deal with the system much smarter than we do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u37	Sure. I have just lost the term that Mr De Groot started with. It was quite translated to me as: we are far from there yet. I think, on the contrary, that we have taken very big steps, that we are at the forefront of this and that the world is looking at the Netherlands in this way too. Are we there? No, of course not. I think you're referring to circular agriculture. I think there are opportunities there. For the residual products that remain on the fields, we might as well find other uses. Should the beet leaf be in animal feed, for example, or could we perhaps turn it into textiles in three, four, five years' time or something completely different that we are not thinking about at the moment? Sure, we can take those steps. However, I do not agree with the statement that we are far from there. I think we're producing very efficiently. For me, the concept of efficiency is inspired by the fact that with high production we ensure the lowest possible impact on the environment. That's where we're the frontrunner in the world. Before I continue with my text... I do not see any follow-up question from Mr De Groot, so I do not want to challenge him either. I think it would be very good if this Chamber, perhaps, could give the Minister a move to do so, think about what circular agriculture is and give it a more detailed answer. With this vision in mind, therefore, I find it regrettable that an image is increasingly being sketched that would be better for people, animals and the environment only organic farming. That's a fable. With organic farming, we need at least 20% more agricultural land to produce the same amount of food. The current agriculture has taken major steps in recent years to produce our food as sustainably as possible. Each entrepreneur chooses his own form of business and organic farming is part of that. But let us also give room for ordinary agriculture, the usual agriculture that is praised worldwide. This brings me to the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and to the agro-industry's own minister. As you know, a Ministry of Agriculture of its own was not a big deal for the VVD. But now that we have our own minister again, as far as I'm concerned, we're going to use this minister as well. There are many issues in the areas of climate, environment and water, but also external trade, issues that have also been invested in other departments. My question to the Minister is how she intends to fulfil her role towards the sector, but also towards the other ministries. How is the Minister going to share the knowledge available within agriculture and how is it going to ensure that knowledge from other sectors is returned to agriculture? We have an ambitious agenda. In addition to the opportunities and opportunities, my group sees a number of concerns within society: concerns about the effects on public health when living in an area with a lot of animals, concerns about the emissions of substances, the use of plant protection products or odour nuisance experienced in some areas. I understand these concerns. Everyone wants him or her and his or her children to grow up in healthy air, in a beautiful stimulating environment. People want to enjoy their surroundings, sit outside in summer or cycle around. If you don't think this is possible because it stinks, it makes you angry. We see in some parts of our country, for example Brabant, that this leads to heated discussions. Groups of people face each other and each consultation leads to more anger and ultimately leads to nothing. It is true that there are many animals in parts of Brabant. Farmers have had to invest heavily in recent years to meet all kinds of requirements. Major steps have also been taken; I have already mentioned an example. But if parties are opposed to each other, then those positive developments are not seen or felt. That's a shame. My question to the Minister is therefore how she looks at this and whether she sees a role for herself here. In addition to entering into the conversation, it is of course also important to take a number of other steps. The route to more research into health effects is important here. Can the Minister indicate when the results of these investigations can be expected? I would also like to briefly address the issue of the safety of our food. This weekend there were reports of rice waffles, which would contain too much arsenic, and in recent months there have been reports of residues of plant protection products on fruit and eggs contaminated with fipronil. Those were messages that stirred up quite a bit of dust. With these reports about what is or can go wrong, it is not surprising that people are worried about the safety of their food. In order to remove concerns, we need to provide clarity and that clarity must come from the NVWA. Mr. Chairman. In order to function as an authority and maintain your credibility, it must be clear how you operate as an authority. I note that in recent months there has been a lack of clarity among consumers and producers about the opinions of the NVWA. If I may present the following two situations, you will understand why. The eggs contaminated with fipronil were extracted at 0.005 milligrams per kilogram of product. According to the NVWA, as stated on its website, there was no risk to public health. But the medicine must not be in it and so many eggs are destroyed. This weekend's rice waffles. In rice wafers there was an excess of the dangerous substance arsenic. But here the NVWA says that it will only act if it exceeds 20%, in order to take into account the measurement uncertainty. Clearly, this is where the shoe comes in. No risk to public health and many eggs, food, destroy versus exceeding a dangerous substance in rice products, rising from 1% to 17%. The VVD believes that food should be safe. Therefore, substances that should not be in it should not be in our food either. But it looks like we're being measured here with double standards. I ask the Minister whether she is prepared to discuss these examples with the NVWA and to take a clear line in the NVWA's behaviour towards all those involved, including consumers. There should be a clearer framework for action or non-action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u38	What I always regret is that I do not hear a word about animal welfare, and that is what this is all about. Animals also produce. I will use as little animal products as possible and I will certainly never touch meat again, but that is something personal. This is because it really enables you to do something about animal welfare. What I want to say about the NVWA and the food scandals is that it's all assholes who do that. They're assholes. They get fines, and those fines are so attractive they're worth the crime. So we're asking you to throw them in jail. Naming-and-shaming, a professional ban, closing the company. Grab 'em in their crotch, where you can get 'em. So what happens now? The largest party does not participate in this, although it has big words about the food scandals here. And this is really true. I really want an answer to that, Mr President. Trust me, if you're gonna do it the way we want it, if the PVV wants it, you're really gonna get the bastards out of society and you're really gonna take them. I want a second reaction. The Animal Welfare Team may be disbanded immediately. That's the most successful team in the NVWA. Everyone agrees that these people have done gold work. That's only a few dozen people, possibly only 13 to 26 people. Does Mrs. Lodders want to keep that, that Animal Welfare Team of the NVWA?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u39	I'll start with the first question, the one about dealing with assholes. We very much agree on that. We're gonna have to deal with assholes. We have had a debate on this in this house a number of times. The VVD, I believe, has supported the bill, which was dealt with at the end of the previous period in order to substantially increase the penalty rate. I very much agree with Mr Graus that the penalty was really attractive to just break the rules. The moment you fine someone $1,000, I think that's a lot of money, but that was obviously not the case for those bastards. Then you're gonna draw it out. So it's a tough one. Mr Graus goes a little further. I will not repeat his words. Serious financial penalties are very important and we support that. Then the NVWA Animal Welfare Team. The NVWA is an independent authority and we as a Chamber do not deal with the interpretation and staffing of this organisation. I would very much like to leave that to the NVWA. I don't think it's true that people with expertise disappear when the NVWA puts them in different places. On the contrary, they remain within the organisation, and thus retain their knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr Graus, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u41	It used to be the Aid, the General Inspection Service. The best AID guys are all gone, too. There were golden people there. They're all gone. No one knows where they are. Now that Animal Welfare team is gonna disappear. I would like to ask my colleague from the VVD: why don't you talk to those people, because we do have a lot of influence. We also have an influence on the Minister. The House of Representatives is the highest office there is. Please, Mrs. Lodders, are really going to inform you, because that team must not be lost. We cannot allow as the number of assholes grows by the day, that everything now goes to food safety and that the Animal Welfare Team is being cut back or that these people have to do other work. That's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u42	I would like to invite Mr Graus to join us in visiting that team, if the Minister will allow us to do so. My group is concerned with the need to preserve knowledge within the NVWA. I would like to leave it to the Minister, the NVWA, to give it the right form.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u43	You have that commitment, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u44	Two, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u45	Two, in fact. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u46	I think Mrs Lodders rightly points out that various food scandals undermine the confidence of Dutch people in their food and that this is a bad thing. But now, a few hours ago, we received a letter from the Minister showing that fipronil is still found in eggs in Dutch supermarkets. I would ask Mrs Lodders to reflect on that. It shouldn't be happening now. A number of stables are still closed. Some have been released. This means that the NVWA does not manage to get a grip on the chain and that apparently there are still entrepreneurs where something happens that is outside the rules, because that stuff should not be in it. I say explicitly, above the norm, no direct danger to public health.... I do not want to cause a panic..... but this is still something that should not be in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mr Futselaar is asking a difficult question. I've seen the letter, but I haven't been able to read it completely. I actually think that's important in order to reflect on it. I'd like to respond. I don't know if the NVWA can't get a grip on the whole chain. I think we know with each other in this house how complicated this crisis has been, when it comes to fipronil, measuring fipronil in eggs and its values fluctuating in eggs. I've spoken to people who were free of it. They did another test a week later and at one time it was in again, while no medicine had been used. So I think that's very sensitive. Perhaps it would be a good idea to ask the Minister's reflection on this point as well. I will read the letter, so perhaps I will return to Mr Futselaar in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u48	That's fine. Mrs Lodders said: how bad the crisis has been. I think we have to see how bad the crisis is, because it is still playing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u49	Quite rightly so. She's still playing, not only because of the fact that fipronil is still found. We all know how complicated it is to get that stuff out of the stables. As far as I am concerned, the crisis also counts for all those families who are still facing the consequences, whether they are free of it or not. That's serious. Mr President, I shall continue. I had stuck with the fact that I cannot express my pride enough about the Dutch agri-food sector. We are doing well and are number one on many lists: animal welfare, low use of plant protection products, low use of antibiotics in livestock farming, or our sustainable fishing fleet. And yet my group is increasingly getting the feeling that farmers, gardeners and fishermen are being put in the fucking corner. Even more important than my group's feeling is that more and more farmers, growers or fishermen are wondering why they ever wanted to be. That is a worrying development. Our farmers, growers and fishermen lack the sense of social appreciation. They are pushed in the media, here in the Chamber, but also by, for example, teaching materials in schools, time and time again into the corner of the polluters. This is a thorn in the eye, not only because it is not right, but also because the support of both agricultural operators and consumers is important because of the social challenge facing the sector. It doesn't help that fewer and fewer people know where their food comes from. More people are growing up in the city and fewer and fewer people have a family member working in the agro-food sector. Where everyone used to know at what time of the year the corn was taken from the land, the apples were picked or the sugar beet was grubbed up, this is less and less the case. I even had to explain to someone the other day that spinach doesn't grow in the freezer but on land. Last week, the Minister announced that EUR 75 million would be made available to young start-ups. That's good news. Fortunately, there are also people who love the farmers very much. And there are many initiatives in practice and on social media to tell the consumer the honest story and try to get people to find their way back to the farmer. Besides the initiatives of the farmers themselves, for example Boerburgertweet, Boer Bewust, the Dutch Agri Food Week, the Open Farm Days, the farmer on the floor, and so I can continue. All beautiful and important initiatives. These should certainly continue, but how nice would it be if these initiatives could find strength in the Farmer's Week?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u50	Mrs Lodders has a point when she says that farmers are very often in the dock and that they are frustrated. Frankly, I do understand that, because I see that the agricultural sector is between hammer and anvil. I also see that farmers are trapped in a system in which there is enormous production pressure, which also creates all kinds of harmful effects. I mentioned all the environmental damage, the problems with animal welfare and the degradation of nature and landscape. My question to Mrs Lodders is how to break it. And does Mrs Lodder share my view that it is necessary to bring together all the parties, not only farmers, nature and environmental organisations but also the retail and food industries, in order to achieve a breakthrough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u51	Yes, I share that very much, because we can't do it alone. I think we are facing a real challenge. I have mentioned it a number of times: we have signed the Paris climate agreements. It has strong objectives, not only for agriculture and horticulture, but for everyone in this country, everyone in Europe. If we are to ask for that extra step, there must be mutual respect. I very much agree with Mr Moorlag that it is not just a question of respect between the farmer and the consumer; it certainly includes a number of other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u52	I see a comparison with the energy sector, where natural and environmental organisations and energy producers have been in the shooter's pits for years and have been using lead and gunpowder to strike each other verbally. This has been broken by bringing all parties to the table at the ESC.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u53	I can feel him coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u54	In this way, a national energy agreement has been reached. Is a form of pacification, with joint action, an approach which Mrs Lodder also supports?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u55	I have read in the media that Mr Moorlag likes to see an agricultural agreement. I assume that he will bring that up in his speech and that the Minister will respond to it. I am not thinking directly of an agricultural agreement, because I think that we have a government agreement with a clear agricultural paragraph which contains the steps we want to take at both national and European level. I think a number of important steps should also be taken. If I may mention one, that's the farmer's earning model. That's been under pressure for years. Mr Graus has just pointed that out. I think it is very important that what you ask for is also paid for to farmers, growers and fishermen, not only by the consumer; that starts right away with trade and retail. We have taken an important step in that direction. I would have asked that question, but I did read that letter. I have seen that in the first quarter of 2018 we will have an impact; I will look at the Minister. Mr. Chairman. A week in which the farmer, the gardener, the fisherman is at the centre, in which there is extra attention to the way in which our food is produced, and in which, in addition to more social appreciation, there is mutual respect for the challenges and opportunities we face. I would like to emphasise that mutual respect. Is the Minister prepared to talk to the industry, the processing industry and other relevant partners, I say to Mr Moorlag, such as the supermarkets, in order to arrive at the annual farmer's Week? What would be great if the kick-off of that first week of the farmer could take place on the under construction site on which the Floriade takes place in 2022. Then you'll think: what a bridge. But the theme of the Floriade, Growing Green Cities, fits in perfectly. The world exhibition aims to contribute to solutions to issues related to food, the green environment, energy production and health. The Minister cannot have a better stage, because the cabinet also faces the same challenges. Mr. Chairman. From the Floriade it is a nice transition to horticulture. Since 2004, the six main Dutch horticultural regions have organised themselves as the greenport cluster, in which not only growers of fruit and vegetables and flowers and plants are represented, but also the entire chain, such as seed production, trade, logistics, technical suppliers, greenhouse builders and knowledge institutions. Recently, the Impulsagenda Greenports 3.0 was drawn up, with the ambition to maintain the leading position of the Netherlands as a horticultural country. I would like to ask the Minister whether she would like to work on this impulse agenda with the Dutch greenports. Can it indicate where its priorities lie and how it can play this coordinating role between the sector on the one hand and the various ministries on the other, because there are also similarities with other ministries on the other? Mr. Chairman. For horticulture but also for other sectors, processing is an important tool for achieving more sustainable food production. The CRISPR-Cas9 processing technique, which the VVD discussed extensively during the previous budget treatment, is a good and important example of this. By breeding varieties we manage to improve the yield of crops. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that the Netherlands will work in Europe. How does the Minister intend to put this on the European agenda? What steps does the Commission intend to take in order to achieve results in the short term? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is also at the forefront of fisheries. Dutch fishermen have invested heavily in a sustainable fishing fleet. Pulse cortex technology is also an example of sustainable innovation. By-catch is decreasing, the seabed is being spared and fuel savings are being made. The Dutch fisherman should not be thwarted by outdated rules or by interests of other countries in the new fishing method, such as the pulse trawl. The first reports from Europe are encouraging when it comes to allowing pulse trawling as a fishing technique. Can the Minister state the state of play? And when will there be real clarity for the fishermen so that they know where they stand? Mr. Chairman. Recent reports have shown that a pilot is being launched for the cultivation of seaweed between wind farms at sea. Can the Minister indicate how fisheries are involved in this? Of course, it cannot be that fishermen's sandwiches are taken away and pilots like this are ignored by fishermen. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that fishing should be able to benefit as much as possible from the areas where there are windmills. Other Member States seem to be more flexible in dealing with this than the Netherlands. Can the Minister promise that it is also her priority to include fishermen in the use of these areas? Mr. Chairman. Nature is an important element in our leisure activities. Nothing is as good as walking around on Saturday morning or going to the woods with the whole family on Sunday afternoon to take a nice walk. In recent years, nature policy has been decentralised to the provinces. The VVD considers it important to continue this path. The provinces are about nature development in their area. They know, like no other, what people need. That is why we are seeing good initiatives and discussions about this in this country. I see it, for example, in my own province, where we are now considering the management of the Oostvaardersplassen, for example, but also the expansion of other areas. Of course, some colleagues will be happy to discuss this themselves, but my group believes that it belongs to the people in the area and the people who use it. Mr. Chairman. In the coalition agreement, 275 million euros were made available to invest in nature and water quality. Can the Minister indicate how this budget is being used? For the VVD, it is important that the use of resources should also contribute to achieving the goals we have formulated with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u56	It is now about achieving nature goals. Now we have an area, the Oostvaardersplassen. It's supposed to be nature, too. I think it's only tupperware nature, because it's man-made. But that's where all the animals have been thrown, which have multiplied. They are lying there and they have too little food. If a severe winter comes, thousands of animals will die again or they will have to shoot off hundreds more. What is Mrs Lodder going to do about it? Because there are solutions. We can use a shot pill to ensure that they do not multiply and that the numbers are at least limited. How will Mrs. Lodders support me in that? I'm trying to get a third commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u57	Well, then I must disappoint Mr Graus. I believe that my colleague, Rudmer Heerema, has just taken the initiative to decentralise the management of nature reserves to the provinces. Excuse me, he did that with Mr. Geurts. Look, if you have any doubts every now and then, you'll get the answer. The management of the Oostvaardersplassen is decentralised. I think that is a good example. That is why I have addressed this point. I see in my province that we are now considering the management of the Oostvaardersplassen and, in particular, the point that Mr Graus refers to. I don't know what the outcome is, but that's where the discussion is taking place right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u58	Sure. Mr Heerema also helped me with the seals, and Mr Geurts was the first pig farmer I had contact with when I entered the Chamber. So I do know the gentlemen, and I also know what they have done and what they haven't done for animals. I share your view of this decentralization as well. However, I say through the chairman, Mrs Lodders also said that assholes need to be dealt with. If a farmer neglects one cow, the NVWA and the animal police are on the doorstep and such a farmer has a fat problem. That is right, I think; that is a good thing. But if, under the watchful eye of the entire Chamber, state forest management causes thousands of animals to die every year, then surely we can't allow that? Then we must intervene from our highest office, mustn't we? You can see it's going wrong. That miserable animal gets all the media every year, too. Every year we talk about it. Why don't we just say, guys, now we're done; now we're gonna come up with a solution? I ask Mrs Lodders because she is of the largest and most powerful coalition party. I'm just an opposition man. That's why I need help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u59	But he's a funny guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u60	Mr Graus should not give himself away, because I think there are quite a number of themes he has addressed in this house and which have now taken steps. That is not always appreciated by Mr Graus, I note. We have just heard that in his own contribution. Then good steps are taken, and then it just doesn't happen with the right people. Anyway, I think Mr Graus is making a very serious point about the Oostvaardersplassen. I live in Flevoland; Mr Graus knows that. I live close to the area. I don't often travel by train, but when I travel by train, I also see what happens in that area. That is why I think it is so good that the province of Flevoland, which has been given the management of the Oostvaardersplassen, is discussing management. As far as I know, that discussion has not yet been settled. So we really have to wait for that outcome. Mr. Chairman. This is the first budget discussion with this Minister. I have heard her speak proudly of the farmers, gardeners and fishermen over the last few weeks. I have seen that she talks with these beautiful sectors and makes social issues discussable, but also takes responsibility for the sector if necessary. I appreciate that very much. I would like the Minister to express her pride, but also the challenges that lie ahead, in the Week of the farmer, the gardener and the fisherman, a week in which forces are combined and where everyone gets energy, because that will benefit us all. I wish the Minister every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u61	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u62	I think it's a very nice idea, that Farmer's Week. As far as I'm concerned, it's the farmer's day every day. But isn't it wise to stick a week for that in the next few weeks, so that we can celebrate the five-year anniversary at the Floriade?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u63	Well, that's not what I meant with my little bridge to the Floriade. It's a long way from 2022. I would suggest organising the kick-off of the farmer's Week on the under construction Floriade terrain, not this year, because that will be difficult, but in 2018. As far as I am concerned, this should be done on an annual basis. The reason why I mentioned it is that I like these themes so much in line with the task we are facing in this house and in this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mr Grashoff from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u65	Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago I was at a meeting in Deurne, a village in the Brabant Peel. The meeting was organised by local politicians who wanted to talk about manure fraud. That wasn't because it came to their attention for the first time. Definitely not; they knew it a long time ago. Large-scale fraud is taking place for years and every day they experience its consequences in the form of odour nuisance. These people feel like they're yelling at deaf ears. They were pleased with the national commotion that has now arisen. But they did wonder: is national politics really going to tackle manure fraud? I direct that question on their behalf to the Minister. This minister can make a difference. But I have become less optimistic after the Minister's reaction to the motion that I have just tabled on behalf of almost the entire opposition in the VAO. Manure fraud is a persistent issue. It's been around for decades. Soft healers make stinky wounds. I wonder if the reaction of this minister is not again that of a gentle healer. Mr. Chairman. At the end of last week, the new version of the red list, the list of endangered species, was published. That list has gotten longer since last time. We are dealing not only with a Minister of Agriculture, but also with a Minister of Nature. More bird species are threatened. The decline of many common species in the Netherlands is particularly worrying. A few days before the publication we had a round table here about biodiversity loss. I find "biodiversity" an annoying word. I'd rather talk about "natural capital." I think that's a little more understandable. Then we all know what we're talking about. It was the result of the insect mortality study. The ten leading scientists brought us the uncomfortable truth about the loss of natural capital: it is persistent, it is still going on and in recent decades our farming practice is not the only one but by far the most important cause. Will the Minister respond to that? If we look at the climate, we can see that the government agreement for the agricultural sector includes the target of 3.5 megatons of CO reduction by 2030. Compliment: there is a quantitative goal. So we know a little bit about what we're talking about. It is a very low target, because it is only 15%, while the government wants to achieve a total of around 49% CO reduction by 2030. The sector is therefore kept out of the wind. However, the Planning Office for the Environment estimates that the measures in the coalition agreement add up to only 0.6 megatons. That hole is huge. What's the Minister gonna do about it? Mr. Chairman. If we are to save climate and biodiversity, our agriculture will have to change fundamentally. From the far too narrow efficiency approach aimed at increasing production per hectare, to which we just heard a praise from Mrs Lodder, we need a broad definition of efficiency, which means that we must have optimum agricultural production but within the limits of climate and ecology. We need to move towards an agriculture in which circles are consistently closed at regional level in my words: a European scale and in which food security on a European scale is combined with the protection and strengthening of nature and biodiversity. If such a sustainable farming practice can be developed anywhere in the world, it is here. Because yes, I too am proud of the knowledge centres we have here and of the organisational and innovative power we have. But then we have to use that power to do so and not to increase and push production per hectare, which is a finite matter. Does the Minister share this approach to agriculture, i.e. agricultural production within the boundaries of climate and ecology, as a mark on the horizon? Is it prepared to take concrete steps in this direction? Is the Minister also prepared to present a plan for the coming summer recess, setting out how she intends to implement the CO reduction target of 3.5 megatons? Is it prepared to embrace the initiative for a delta plan to restore biodiversity launched by a large number of societal parties and a number of scientists? In the coalition agreement we see some good points. Let me mention an important point: the 200 million for the reduction of pig pressure in Brabant. How does the Minister intend to further fill that out? With what number of pigs is the livestock reduced there? Can the Minister confirm that what goes on in East Brabant about pigs doesn't show up in another place? Can it also ensure that freed-up stables are not occupied by goat farms? Is the Minister prepared to give the province of Noord-Brabant an explicit opportunity to draw up a comprehensive plan of action for this purpose, in which the territorial powers of the province and the possibilities that are created in this way for rehabilitation can be combined? That could be a strong strategy. However, we also see in the coalition agreement the hand of the short-term eye valves agricultural lobby. It is well represented here in the groups of VVD and CDA, who want more of the same. The fact that in stopping compulsory grazing, not wanting to interfere with the failure of the approach to nitrogen reduction, the PAS has so far only brought us more ammonia in the air rather than less than the low climate forecast and the refusal, against better judgment, to focus on a substantial reduction in livestock. The cabinet knocked on the chest, well, for a moment then, at the start, because it would be the greenest cabinet ever. But we also see that the cuts in the nature budget at the time of Rutte I have still not been undone. Where European countries were concerned about satsumas, the Netherlands went for the maximum period of admission. And where Europe is trying to save the eel from extinction, the Netherlands, and this minister, also object. If you want to be the greenest cabinet, trade for it. Not nice talk but real, firm steps in the right direction. GroenLinks would like to help with the latter. That is why my group has tabled at least two amendments: one to make a substantial extra contribution to climate change objectives, and the other to stimulate the transition to non-chemical plant protection. The first amendment frees 10 million for underwater drainage. That's an interesting technique with which we get about four goals in parallel. It is good for agricultural practice, it reduces soil decline, it provides a significant reduction in CO at relatively low costs and, although combined with other measures, it contributes to saving our meadow birds. My second amendment concerns integrated plant protection. This involves setting up large-scale pilot sites in which integrated plant protection is further developed and implemented, with the results being closely monitored. My group wants to release 5 million for this. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Mr. Chairman. Our meadow birds are still very bad. I was just talking about that. New figures, about the breeding season 2017, show further deterioration. There aren't enough young people to keep the population alive. My group has previously produced an initiative paper to protect the meadow bird. Does the Minister know that note? If not, I'd like to send it to her. There is also the Grashoff/Leenders motion, which calls for a national programme for meadow birds. Is the Minister going to carry out that motion now? If I have to, I'd like to send you that motion. The minister's predecessor informed the Chamber that the so-called scenario 2 of the WUR report on the future of meadow birds will be used for grazing bird management. Is that also the point of departure of this Minister? And is she going to act accordingly? 'Cause there's no time to wait. In 2019 and 2020 there will be some extra money, through a shift in the CAP. That's good. Together, it's about 40 million. We would like this money to be used to strengthen grazing bird management. Is this also the Minister's purpose? According to our information, there is a system of ex post payments in agricultural nature management. This means that it should be possible to set up and implement projects already in 2018 under this additional budget. Is that right? And is the Minister also prepared to set that in motion so that we can get to work as quickly as possible? So we are not asking for more resources here, but rather for more resources to be used. The 2018 breeding season should not be missed. Goat farming is growing steadily, with all the risks. In the last month, Q-fever infections have been re-established in humans. That's a big concern. It is time to create an animal rights system for goat farming too, before it is too late and we have to shrink. We are not doing that alone, by the way. In the meantime, Provincial States of Gelderland and Brabant have also declared a goat stop. They are calling for national measures, which have not yet been taken. When is the Minister going to make that policy? How does she look at the advice of the Brabant GGD to handle a distance of 2 kilometres between goat farms and dwellings? Does she want to introduce such a distance criterion? If necessary, I am considering a motion on this point. Then plant protection, a subject that I've been working on since I arrived in the Chamber. In the meantime, because of my 2011 motion, municipalities are no longer allowed to use glyphosates on pavements and no longer to use them in unpaved areas for professional use since November. But there are still the necessary exceptions. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we have to get rid of it for the most part. Over the last few months, there has been an intense debate on the EU's position, but the Netherlands pulled the wrong side of the rope. It would have been much better to actively advocate a sensible phasing-out strategy from the outset. Is it true that I also heard the Minister on Twitter arguing for such a phasing-out strategy? Is the Minister prepared to write this down and send it to the Chamber, please, with the monitoring system, so that we also know what we are talking about? Now that the Commissioner has confirmed once again today that it is entirely up to the Member States to allow for a shorter period of time and/or to impose stricter criteria, I would like to ask the Minister whether she would also like to use this space. I would like to have a more comprehensive response to this point. I was shocked by the government agreement on fisheries. In fact, the atmosphere is: we are doing nothing more than what is minimally mandatory in Europe, and above all we are doing everything we can to interpret European rules as widely as possible. I ask the Minister if this is appropriate for dealing with our creation. Or doesn't it exist at sea? It is high time for real marine reserves. That's what the Minister should be trying to do. The new cabinet wants to grant 15 million in subsidies for innovation in fisheries. Okay. Can the Minister guarantee that these grants will actually be used for projects that are demonstrably sustainable and/or improve animal welfare? Finally. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants to serve this cabinet and certainly this minister in the green ambitions. We will therefore wholeheartedly support good plans. We will continue to make proposals ourselves. It is up to this minister to choose. Does she choose for a standard rigid departmental reaction, a bit the "not invented here"? Or does she pick up the glove and benevolently look towards the Chamber at what can be done instead of categorically dissuading all the motions on manure fraud, as earlier this evening? It is really up to this minister herself whether she will eventually remain one of the soft healers or go into history books as the most greener Minister of Nature and Agriculture ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u66	Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u67	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u68	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u69	GroenLinks is somewhat disappointed about the coalition agreement and lacks a number of measures. I would like to point out that there is also a sum of 275 million for nature and water quality. I don't think that's a bad idea. If the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is so serious, why is nature missing from the alternative budget introduced by a number of left-wing parties this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u70	No, nature is not missing, but I admit it's partly hidden in it. By the way, it is not true that it has been emphasized from all sides, including by our financial spokesmen, that we are dealing here with a complete package on all sides. It was a global response to the coalition agreement on a number of issues. The three left-wing parties have made a clear choice and have shown a very clear story in particular on a number of socio-economic issues and in the climate. Do you judge it on that and then let us see what we can do in the field of nature. For example, support my amendment in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u71	I have looked closely at the alternative budget. I have seen a number of measures about the Maut and CO, but really nothing about nature. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is critical of the coalition agreement. It's okay. But if you think nature is so important, you don't hide it in an alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u72	You can always try to make an attack like this. I have a very clear story here about nature. I also tabled an amendment. I have motions ready in this area. If Mrs Dik-Faber thinks that nature is so important and that I would underestimate it, then the first thing she can do is to support those amendments and motions. That's the proof of the pudding if you really mean it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u73	Thank you. We're gonna listen to Mr. Geurts. After Mr Geurts we are going to put the proof of the pudding into practice and I am going to suspend for dinner so that we can listen to Mr Futselaar after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u74	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we have the best farmers, gardeners and fishermen in the world. The CDA is proud of them. The efficient way in which products grown in the Netherlands are often better for the environment. Recently in the Chamber several veterinarians indicated that we in the Netherlands protect animal welfare better than in other countries and that the sector itself has actively reduced the use of antibiotics. The Dutch cutter fishing is at the forefront of sustainability with a switch to pulse fishing. However, several parties like to focus their attention on agriculture and fisheries. For example, there was the German insect research from a few years ago, the data of which was recently re-used and thus dealt with in all kinds of media. I read that we often point to our farmers. Of course, the decline of insects is worrying and we need to see how we can do something about this together, but this research did not say anything about whether or how agriculture contributed to this. In the meantime, there is also criticism of the investigation. Let's see what makes the likely decline of insects come and work with it. It won't have one cause. It was even more colourful in the fishing industry. The Centraal Bureau voor de Statistics (Centraal Bureau voor de Statistics) went on to perform independently without any knowledge of the content of the fisheries data. I would like to urge civil society organisations to start the conversation. Many civil society organisations are seen as a good cause. Then act like one. Then you really do something good. I hope that efforts will be made to show the nuance that often exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u75	I am very pleased that Mr Geurts agrees with us that the enormous mortality rate of insects is a serious problem that needs to be dealt with. Mr Geurts was at the round table, unlike Mrs Lodders. He wasn't there all the time, which I think he had good reasons for, but at least he was there; my appreciation for that. After all, he has heard that these ten scientists all point, with different angles, to agricultural practice as the main cause? And does Mr Geurts agree with me that we should at least look very seriously at that main cause and we should really go a step further than always showing the mantra of praise in current farming practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u76	Perhaps Mr Grashoff will soon consider it a complimentary day, but I would like to congratulate him. I've heard the scientists, and then I've looked at their contributions. I thought they were doing very well coordinated. They knew exactly what each of them was gonna say. My compliments on that. I didn't figure out there was one cause. There are some nuances to adjust. I was shocked by the arrogance of a few researchers, especially one. He said, in my view very arrogant, that he was not impressed by the criticism of the investigation. I can all go into the critical points of the investigation. If I'm challenged to do that, I'm about to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u77	I feel like I didn't get an answer to my question at all. Mr Geurts went behind a discussion of two people who criticized a study supported by many others. That's not very strong. It wasn't the essence of my question either. The essence of my question is: does Mr Geurts agree with me that we need to look seriously at agricultural practice, if that is the main cause of the biodiversity problem that we now know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u78	On the basis of this research and the way it has been done, I do not share the results that the GroenLinks Group is trying to project here. Just one example. The researchers use an exceptionally good insect year as a starting year. Then you also get much easier a decreasing trend in the time series. Mr Grashoff may laugh here, but that is just a fact. I have a lot more facts if you want them. I began by saying that it will not have one cause, but you are now trying to use only one cause. I think that is very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u79	I'm starting to see a pattern here anyway. Every time there are messages from a scientific point of view that could be negative for traditional agriculture, Mr Geurts attacks the messenger instead of going into criticism. Then it is: "the scientists are arrogant" or "the calculations are not right." I would like to remind Mr Geurts that the last time I heard him do that before the biodiversity issue in spring was when the Plan Bureau for the Environment concluded: hey, we think there is a lot of manure fraud when we look at the calculations. It didn't work out at the time. How did the PBL come up with such figures? It didn't make any sense. So what do we see in the fall? That the papers are full of them. I would ask Mr Geurts to reflect on his own role towards the bad news and perhaps to be more open to it now and then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u80	Mr Geurts sees more of a half-full glass than, as the SP Group now intends, a half-empty glass. Look at my contribution to the AA on the Sixth Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive. Fraud is inexcusable and we must also tackle it. I don't know if you were, but there was then someone who was interrupting: what was there in recent years, by a cabinet the CDA wasn't in, taking action to stop that fraud? The Minister indicated that at the time. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u81	Mr. Geurts says very wise words. He says, "Look at my contribution to that AO on manure fraud." I did. It was two sentences. The first two sentences of Mr Geurts' speech were about manure fraud, despite the fact that he was one of the people who had insisted that during the AO there should be talk about manure fraud and that there should not be a separate debate on it. Then I think you're diving for that discussion if you then limit yourself to: manure fraud is not allowed. 'Cause that's actually what you said back then, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u82	I think this is a special way of doing things. If a Member of Parliament can do something with a very clear sentence, does he not have to repeat that sentence ten minutes in other words? Fraud is not allowed. Fraud must be dealt with. You will hear a few other words about it in my speech shortly. Mr. Chairman. The waves of sometimes justified, but often also unjustified criticism, the uncertainty and pressure on farmers' incomes and the pressure to invest, as is now being forced into Brabant, contribute to farmers stopping and fewer and fewer successors. It pains me that parents advise their children not to take over the family business, while farmers are necessary for our food, make a big contribution to our economy and care for most of the Dutch landscape. There are also uncertainties surrounding imminent animal disease outbreaks and fraud, such as the illegal use of fipronil by a cleaning company. As a result, there is a lot of suffering for humans and animals. I sympathize with the many poultry farmers and their families who are still struggling to get out of here. Some dairy farmers are also in a very difficult situation, in this case through government intervention with the Phosphate Reduction Plan and the introduction of phosphate rights. They have applied as a bottleneck or their objection procedure is still ongoing, but they cannot yet register as a bottleneck under the phosphate rights system. These families live in uncertainty. While the lawsuit was in progress, they didn't have to pay a fine. Now it's been announced that they have to. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to see whether dairy farmers will only have to pay a fine if it is clear whether they are a problem or not. As a result, I ask the Minister whether, if a company reports as a problem when entering the phosphate rights system, it will have a suspensive effect. For some dairy farms it is so painful that they do not last without recognition as a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u83	I'm an avid reader of Farmhouse and I trust them very much there. Today I read that Mr Geurts of the CDA believes that the psychosocial consequences for farmers of public policy should be brought to the fore. Then I thought: ah, that's interesting, because I didn't actually see the CDA oppose government policy at all. The CDA itself was at the helm, for example in abolishing the milk quota. Then they said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then, of course, it had to be. And if the CDA wasn't at the helm, it wasn't in opposition. The CDA did not oppose or determined the policy. Does Mr Geurts actually say here: farmers need psychosocial support as a result of the choices made by the CDA all these years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u84	It seems as if Mrs Ouwehand knows my text, because I come to that in the next paragraph. But maybe just kick it off...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u85	Well, we won't just keep going if you come up with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u86	Well, I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u87	I want an answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u88	Through the President's intervention, I have lost Mrs Ouwehand's key question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u89	She'd be happy to repeat it, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u90	I think so too! Is the CDA actually saying that farmers need psychosocial help as a result of choices made by the CDA in government or by not having an opposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u91	Look, it's always good that the frame that the Party wants to put for the Animals here is repeated again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u92	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u93	It's a frame that puts the Party before the Animals. I'm just thinking, Mr President, how I can react very neatly to that. I'll do it by example. The poultry farmers are affected by a fraud case, fipronil, and go with man and power, with neighbors and people from their surroundings, cleaning their stables. In some places that doesn't work and then you can't blame the CDA that those stables don't get clean. But these people are so insecure and feel such pressure on their company and on their survival that I was triggered last summer to propose this. It has also triggered me, because I've been walking around with it for a while. I therefore believe that we, as a government, should pay attention to this. I would also like to do that if there is a NVWA performance that is wrong, but that is what the Sorgblader Committee is about. That is why I am going to call on the Minister to take this into account in crisis management and legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u94	This is, of course, the good explanation, the politically correct explanation. But the CDA must surely admit that the uncertainty that Mr Geurts is talking about in relation to the phosphate rights debate actually arose because the CDA wanted to ignore warnings. Everyone saw coming that releasing the milk quota and not immediately regulating a production restriction would lead to enormous tragedies. Everyone knew that steam and boiling water would still have to be regulated. Isn't that what the CDA chose to do? I think that entrepreneurs deserve clarity and that you should support them if the government has made a pot of it, but then it is important to point out who was behind it. And that was just the CDA itself!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u95	This is a repeat of moves. In the past, the CDA has also warned about the milk quota: dear people, the milk quota is going down, because it was decided about 20 or 25 years ago. However, bear in mind that we have rules in this country and that there can be no limitless growth. And that's what Mrs. Ouwehand of the Party for Animals forgets to tell. The clarity that the Party for Animals can then offer is: dear people, you can simply leave the Netherlands as an entrepreneur, because in the short term we want 70% and in the longer term 100% of livestock farming from the Netherlands. If that is the clarity that you are happy to provide to these entrepreneurs, then that is the case of Mrs Ouwehand, but the CDA is not going for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u96	You're continuing. No, Mrs. Ouwehand. We've heard you twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u97	Mr President, I have a personal point. Mr Geurts knows very well what he's doing here. The Party for Animals is for a shrinkage of the livestock by 70%, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u98	Point is fixed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u99	... not by 100%. And that is what Mr Geurts keeps saying to better knowledge in every single time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u100	Mr Geurts is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mr. Chairman. The political intervention in agricultural management without a sound and well-supported plan has already led to suicides among mink farmers. How could it have come to this in the Netherlands, I wondered. The CDA proposes that mental health care for farmers and gardeners be given a prominent place within the crisis approach and legislation leading to intervention in agricultural management. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a proposal for this? With the arrival of the new cabinet and its own Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, there is hope for a more future perspective. People working in the agricultural sector expect a lot from this cabinet and the CDA would like to work with the minister to implement the government agreement. And the Minister is already busy with major dossiers such as the Sixth Action Programme for the Nitrates Directive and the Common Agricultural Policy. In addition, work will have to be done on the new programmes provided for in the government agreement, such as the installation of a food divider, a farm acquisition fund for young farmers, in cooperation with the provinces a warm clean-up of bottlenecks in pig farming, and climate issues such as soil decline and soil health. The food divider must tackle unfair commercial practices and the distorted market power in the food chain and ensure that farmers and gardeners receive higher prices from customers who impose super-statutory requirements. When can we receive the Minister's first proposals? The CDA also wants the Minister to work on a scheme for young farmers. We need farmers and peasants. They are part of the Netherlands, for our food and for the care of our landscape. Besides taking over a business, you can start a new business. Are new starting farmers and farmers also going to be helped by the young farmers' fund? At what time does the Minister come forward with proposals for this young farmer's fund? In Brabant we want to address various bottlenecks for the living environment. We have to do something about this, because municipalities and family businesses are in a tight spot. Is the Minister prepared to start talks in the short term about a warm clean-up with the pig farming sector, the municipalities and, in particular, the province of North Brabant? Mr. Chairman. This was a brief list of the first CDA priorities. These are also the prime priorities of the Minister, I wonder. In recent years, I have repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the importance of volunteers in the green. In exchange services with the predecessor of Mr Moorlag of the PvdA Group, we also have motions or motions there. Amendments tabled on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers. For the maintenance of our landscape, for counting birds and butterflies, and for help in grazing bird management, it is important to help these volunteers, as well as the organisations that allow the use of these volunteers. The question I have is whether the Minister sees the importance of green volunteers and whether she is prepared to support the national network. We also have a responsibility for the conservation of nature on and around the islands of the Caribbean Netherlands. A further deterioration of nature there will have disastrous consequences for the economy of the islands. The CDA would like the Minister to consult with the network organisation of nature parks on the six islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u102	Let's just get back to the previous point. I heard Mr Geurts talk about green boas and about nature management. Last week I read somewhere that a lot of organizations are ready to start working as a green boa. This is on a voluntary basis, but it is with people who are very much involved in nature, I mention the hunters' associations or at least people who are active in them. How does Mr Geurts view this initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u103	I would like to thank Mrs Lodders for this interruption, which will allow me to put that question to the cabinet. How do we deal with the green boas and the green volunteers? You're also asking what the CDA thinks. Supervision in the outside area is at this time, let me put it neatly, yet a little less than it should be. The Minister of Justice, or rather the Ministers of Justice and Security, is also responsible for this. But I would also like to pass on this question to this Minister. How does the Minister view it, as regards the part for which it is responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u104	Thank you. It wasn't agreed in advance, but this is one of the questions that remained with me. So I'd like a response from the Minister to that intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u105	I always expect Mr Graus to try in this way to pass on questions that had not yet emerged in his speech. I expect that less from Mrs Lodder, but I like being the traffic manager, just to use a nice English term for that. Mr. Chairman. This Minister is also responsible for the regions and their bottlenecks. I have three proposals for this. First of all, I think it is important to preserve old crafts, for example the construction of traditional wooden boats such as punters, reed cutting and the profession of miller. This is not only for the sake of our cultural history, it is also touristy attractive. Together with the provinces, a programme could be set up for this purpose. Is the Minister prepared to include this in her talks with the provinces and in her talks with her colleagues from OCW? After all, this ministry is about the equipment, and I also hope to see intangible heritage. My other proposal concerns rural areas. We are increasingly seeing that obsolete barns remain because there are fewer farmers and now we are working with larger stables and barns. We don't want to lose this empty position or use it by the underworld. That's why it would be good if these stables didn't stand up. In order to achieve that, I would suggest that the disposal of debris should be reduced by the disposal of debris after you have demolished the stables, you get debris by making it compulsory for infrastructure debris from the neighborhood to be used. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with those involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u106	A heartwarming argument about old crafts and old traditions. The reed cutters are mentioned. We have also taken action on several occasions. But for now, the scavenged sheepfolds. Are they included in that? To be honest, I have never received the support of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u107	I expected this question to come. Nature policy is decentralised to the provinces and we have always said that this is included. The provinces and some municipalities are responsible for dealing with this. So it's no longer a state responsibility. On the basis of subsidiarity, I would also like to leave it there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u108	That all sounds very nice, and as a former Member of the European Parliament, of course, I fully agree with Mr Geurts that we should lay down the responsibility where it should lie. But Mr Geurts has just rightly pointed out that there are issues in the country which also belong to the intangible heritage. I don't know which examples he mentioned anymore, but at least he was talking about the reed cutters and the mills. It is not illogical at all that the Ministry of Education has an opinion on such matters. I therefore believe that double standards are now being applied. The scavenged scoundrels... sheepfolds...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u109	What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u110	The scavenged sheepfolds should only manage to save themselves in the province, but the reed cutters and millers can go to the Empire. Please, let's leave the responsibility where it belongs. That's in provinces and municipalities. If the Empire can support something in that, be my guest, but for all of them and not just for those few that the CDA has just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u111	There is still a very long list of crafts that I have not mentioned. That simply did not fit in with the speaking time I had. We have to be honest about that, too. If the Christian Union Group would like to hear positive words about sheep shepherds and their herds: in this case. But we must leave the responsibilities where they lie. This is a heavily fought point in the House of Representatives. It has also been made clear. I have the impression that the coalition that is now in the cabinet is not going to change that. However, I am pleased with what you have said about OCW, because then I can add a few sentences to that in this interruption. There is a problem with that Ministry in the field of intangible heritage. They do not have very much attention to that, while they are partly responsible for it. That is why I am making an attempt here through this Minister and appealing to her commitment to her colleagues on OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u112	Mr President, I would be happy to take you on a work visit to the sheep-skuddes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u113	No, I'd like to see the hacked beekeepers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u114	We can even see them in our own chamber garden, if we go to our courtyard! I have a question. Is Mr Geurts still referring to the point in the government agreement on the NFI and the Veterinary Forensic Team? I don't know when else to put the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u115	I'm with Justice and Security now, so this is a good point to put that question. But Mr Geurts has really left that point to you because you have made a great deal of effort in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u116	Thank you for that! Then I can ask my question. I believe that your colleagues Van Dam and Van Toorenburg have contributed to this in the coalition agreement. Now it matters to me that they always refer to you when it comes to the Veterinary Forensic Team. That's why I have to ask that question here. The CDA and the government want the veterinary forensic investigation to come back within the NFI, but do you agree with me that these two people from the Veterinary Forensic Team, those two experts in this field, should be involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u117	Thank you for those words by Mr Graus. This shows that I have quite the wind with my colleagues. I don't know if they feel that way themselves. The coalition agreement also has many fathers and mothers, so I wouldn't want that honour alone. Let me now turn to the point that your question is really about. I think we should take a good look at that, because that is also a question of money. Then you'll need cover, too. That is not easy in the LNV budget, I can tell you. Together with our collaborator I did some studies on this. I have also heard you ask the question to the Minister. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer. If it fits within the framework of the coalition agreement, I say to Mr Graus, let us see if we can get a majority in this Chamber. But it must fit within the framework of the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u118	I thank Mr Geurts for what he says. Can Mr Geurts support me with an investigation? Why is that? I want that said here anyway. The Veterinary Forensic Team works for one tenth to one twentieth of the amounts for which the NFI and the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine do. They charge around €50 per obduction up to €200, €300. The Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of Utrecht University receives €1,500 to €2,000 for it and can also take days. The Veterinary Forensic Team, they're the only experts on the subject. Veterinarian Monique Verkerk graduated cum laude in America. We don't know the training at all. It can say within a few minutes what the cause is and possibly within a few hours, but at least not within two days and not for thousands of euros. Now that I say this, my question is whether Mr Geurts is prepared to support an investigation at least. That saves me a motion, and that's also nice for the Minister. Can the coalition parties support us investigating how these money flows work and how the Veterinary Forensic Team could possibly save a lot of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u119	Clear! Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u120	It's getting worse. Now Mr Graus thinks that I too can speak on behalf of the entire coalition. I can tell you that I can't. Mrs Lodders is already making gestures, so there is reasonable transparency about not being so. You have just mentioned a whole series of numbers, I say to Mr Graus. I think it's good that we take another look at it together. You always say: with the pleasure of a stuffed cake. I was just talking about the underworld. I would like to add a few additional comments on undermining. My CDA colleagues also referred to it in the budget for Justice and Security. One in eight farmers is approached by criminals or is directly the victim of them. For example, barrels of drug waste are dumped on their soil. Can this Minister promise us that she will talk to her colleague from JenV to see how farmers can be supported and protected, for example when they want to join a criminal case as a disadvantaged party? There's a fund, but it's not enough. Third. It would benefit our agriculture and the regions if we realized the World Food Center in the Food Valley. This is important for the region and also as a sign for Dutch agriculture. Is the Minister prepared to discuss these advanced plans with the region? In the Netherlands, we ask a lot of our entrepreneurs, especially farmers, fishermen and gardeners. They work hard for our food, and I am grateful to them for that. I told you at first. With the arrival of the new cabinet and its own Minister for Agriculture and Fisheries, there is hope for a more future perspective. I am confident that this Minister is doing more than her best to live up to the high expectations. Locking up. The CDA has confidence in people, trust in society and therefore trust in the future. Moreover, as a CDA, we do our work in the conviction that God's creation is given to us to manage well and to leave it better for our children and grandchildren. I wish us, as Chamber, the government and the officials, above all, God's blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u121	Thank you. One more question from Mr Bishop, who apparently took over Mr Dijkgraaf's place in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u122	Yeah, I owe him an apology. He fell with the flu and I, as a farmer's son, will of course be eligible to replace him. I had another question for Mr Geurts. I was actually waiting for him to bring it up. I read in the Farm about the CDA's intention to take steps to exempt broad weather insurance from insurance tax. That is a very good intention. I note, however, that a properly covered amendment was not supported by the CDA some time ago. Fortunately, there is progress in developments; moving insight we shall say. Is it an idea to jointly, as CDA and SGP, ask the Minister if she can ensure that an exemption is included in the 2019 Tax Plan? Is that what we can do together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u123	The quotes are correct. First of all, get well with Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u124	I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u125	That's not to disqualify you, but I do miss him already. We have also had the discussion about this cover behind the scenes. I am only transparent about this. That cover couldn't be worn. Then the point you just made. The chairman already looked at me: there's another one. Yes, Mr Geurts is going to pass on your request to the Minister and tell him that we are going to look together to see if there are any possibilities for better coverage for broad weather insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u126	Okay. That is a joint request from the SGP and the CDA. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u127	We're gonna have dinner, and we're gonna start again at 8:00. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u128	I call Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u129	Mr President, at the beginning of the debate you reduced the number of interruptions to three in half. I feel that parts of this debate are going to be very similar to monologues. I would like to ask for at least an interruption to be added.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u130	I'm in a festive mood, so we're definitely gonna do that. We will continue with Mr Futselaar of the SP Group. He has a first twelve-minute speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It can't go on like this! When I was asked last week in the SP Group what was the brief summary of my speech in the budget, my answer was those five words: it cannot go on like this! I am now 258 days MP and spokesman in the field of agriculture. What did I see in those days? The fact that dairy farming had to be repaired on a large scale, because after the abolition of the milk quota the insane growth had caused all the standards to be exceeded. That was in March. That goat farms and lung complaints were found to have a direct link, which was recognised, proven in research, against which provinces were then to take action and where The Hague was actually left behind with convincing action, despite the fact that several motions were tabled in this Chamber. A summer with a new sad record of barn burning, with already 225,000 dead animals in August, and the year is not yet over. Last night we had another 100 in Ammerzoden. The fipronil affair, one of the largest and most expensive food scandals in Dutch history, in which once again huge numbers of animals were killed, all companies were in financial difficulties, and the faith of Dutch people in their own food was undermined again. I have seen that the manure fraud that, after decades, if not longer, has spread under the surface in the manure-free states of East Brabant and North Limburg, has finally come to light. And I've seen the reports about biodiversity, the future of nature in the Netherlands getting more alarming week after week. Mr. Chairman. It can't go on like this! Last week, a hearing was held in this Parliament on biodiversity in the Netherlands, with ten scientists from ten different disciplines, from butterflies to vertebrates to bees to soil quality. Their message was varied. There was a part of the scientists that said that biodiversity in the Netherlands is bad to very bad. There was also a part of the scientists that said that biodiversity in the Netherlands is going badly. What was not to be heard was a positive sound. Two things kept coming back to that hearing. What is positive is taking place in the limited nature reserves that we have, even if they are under pressure. Beyond that, the cultivation, light damage, agricultural poison and monoculture in agriculture have created areas where biodiversity has virtually no chance anymore. The second central point was nitrate, which came back in almost all stories as a root cause of problems. The Netherlands has a nitrate problem or, in simpler terms, a manure problem. A problem that is not going to be solved with manure digesters or yet another technical development that is emerging on the horizon. It can't go on like this! The manure problem and the manure fraud are just symptoms of the core of the problem: too much manure. And we have too much manure because we have too many animals. I can't make it any simpler. We can continue to spend hundreds of millions or billions on digesters and technology, and if we don't tackle the core, we won't get rid of the problem either. My first question, Mr President. EUR 200 million will be allocated to this cabinet to help clean up the pig sector. Is this reform or is it not accompanied by a reduction in the number of pig rights? Are we going to reduce the livestock or are we just going to move a problem to 50 kilometers away in Gelderland, for example? We deserve clarity. By "we," I mean the sector, residents in the rural area, but also MPs who are asked to decide on this. What's this money going to be used for? This is a big amount. If this is a real clean-up, with fewer animals, it sounds like a meaningful investment. Otherwise, it's a waste of money. So let's get this straight. Mr. Chairman. Last week I was in Herpen, in North Brabant. And for those who don't know: Herpen is the village where Q fever was first established in 2007. Most of the population there has been infected. I don't have to tell this room about the thousands of sick people we've had and the at least 74 dead. And just in Herpen now a goat farmer wants to expand and increase his livestock. What a blow to the face of the residents! Like you're proposing to build a fireworks factory in downtown Enschede. But for the municipality, which is not happy with this either, it is very difficult to intervene. Although Brabant has taken some measures in the field of goats, this is an extension within the existing stables and in fact the legal frameworks are lacking to do something about it. In it, Herpen is not alone. There are several municipalities in the Netherlands in different places that are now trying on shaky legal grounds to limit the expansion of intensive livestock farming for fear of the health of the population. Moreover, I think it is brave that they do so. The UNG has also made it clear to us that existing spatial planning frameworks are not sufficient to take action in the field of public health and intensive livestock farming. Let us not forget that the largest cattle province in the Netherlands, North Brabant, has been asking for years, begging for more legal opportunities. In the past, in response to these questions, the Interim Law on cattle-proof areas, designed by the Rutte II Cabinet, was amended on the advice of the Council of State and consulted. It is a short, clear and practical piece of legislation that allows provinces to control animal numbers in areas such as public health and quality of life. This coalition has decided to put this bill aside. They have not given any clear motivation, because the problems are acknowledged in the coalition agreement. This is not acceptable to the SP, so I would like to announce that I will still submit the Interim Act as an initiative law. This law is simply needed, even now it is known that the Environment Act has been postponed until 2021 anyway, if not later. I am happy to enter into the debate with this Chamber on the usefulness and necessity of this law. But if he is rejected, I invite everyone to go back to Herpen with me to explain to people there that we do not want to give their regional and provincial authorities the opportunity to intervene for their health. Because it can't go on like this! Mr. Chairman. We have been talking here for years about measures to prevent barn fires and nobody wants to steal. We must conclude that we have not been particularly successful in the past, as witnessed by the records of the number of animals killed every year, every summer. There is no phenomenon, I dare say, that as radical as barn fires, the support base under livestock farming is going to disappear. How can we prevent it in the future? We have newer stables that produce considerably less fires, but we know that there is still much to improve in old stables. In his last days as President, Secretary of State Van Dam announced a number of quite meaningful and welcome measures, and he entered into a discussion. We do not want to be acidic and say that the well is muffled after the calf has been drowned, but that we are happy with the effort that was made at that time. But now it's time to move on. Many of the proposed measures can count on our support, but we would like to hear from the Minister when the feasibility study of these additional measures is ready. We cannot stress enough that everything must be done to ensure that this is the case so quickly that summer 2018 will not be a new horror summer like 2017 and 2016 and 2015. If necessary, we will table a motion to enforce that the feasibility study can be discussed in early spring 2018. Then there's something we can do before the summer. Last week a first picture of the new European common agricultural policy came out. That image is mixed. Unfortunately, as I indicated in an earlier debate, a subsidy ceiling has been lost in the lobby. We regret that. Brussels wants to focus on the minimalisation of rules and more elaboration of rules by the Member States. It offers opportunities and threats. Can the Netherlands, which exceeds so many environmental standards, face such responsibilities? Or are we going to find new excuses in this so as not to change and continue on the old road joyfully? Mr. Chairman. Results from the past do not guarantee the future. That's why I still have a little bit of optimism. After all, there's a new minister. It represents what itself calls the "greenest cabinet ever." Then let's start with the green one. Mr. Chairman. One of the most hallucinating pieces I've faced in my limited time in the Chamber is the report I'm holding in my hands right now. It concerns the report "Facts and figures greening CAP" of the University of Wageningen, about exactly what happens with the 210 million euro of green subsidies in the Netherlands. The conclusions are very tough: a decline in permanent grassland, even within Natura 2000 areas where this should not be possible, has virtually nothing to do with current agricultural practice and, for the most part, has no impact on biodiversity. The green effect of green subsidies in agriculture is zero. In the context of the CAP renewal, let us focus on real greening, on greening subsidies that actually lead to biodiversity and sustainability of agriculture. Let us reward progress instead of funding it, as is happening now. Does the Minister intend to do this, not only in the negotiations in Brussels, but also in the specific Dutch impact of the CAP in the future? Mr. Chairman. Green measures should create new opportunities for sustainable agricultural income models. However, the reality is that to a large extent the food chain is moving in the opposite direction. Whether it's the food industry, food suppliers, supermarkets, banks, green education or interest groups, for the most part they're all focused on the largest possible bulk production at the lowest possible price. And in this context, it is often financially impossible for farmers to take necessary sustainability measures in practice. The margins are simply too small, and profits end up elsewhere. For example, the millionaires in the food chain can be found among the feed producers, the poverty is found among the dairy farmers. Mr. Chairman. So we also need to be able to run the whole chain and not put everything in the hands of farmers. That is not easy, because the interests are great. No one wants expensive food, but we collectively benefit from fair and somewhat stable food prices if we want to make a serious greening. How does the Minister see this dilemma? A first step is, as far as I am concerned, the next. It really bothers me that supermarkets go bumping with the prices of basic food like milk every once in a while. The other day, Jumbo did, if I'm right. A few cents more or less on a pack of milk means virtually nothing to a consumer, but for the dairy farmer this can be the margin between profit and loss. In contrast to her predecessor, does the Minister see a responsibility for himself here? And is it prepared to look, as is the case in countries around us, at the possibility of a ban on sales below the purchase price in supermarkets? At least for a number of basic products, because then we have a basic protection. Mr. Chairman. It can't go on like this. There is too much reason to do something else and there are also plenty of opportunities to do things differently: a new CAP, budgets in the government agreement and a strong support in society for a radical sustainability of agriculture. Then let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u132	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u133	I listened to the speech of the SP Group. Why didn't the SP Group take responsibility when it had the chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u134	We have made proposals for coalitions. What you're asking is, why didn't you join the only coalition you've been presented with? Three parties have said: we are an engine block and someone can join us. We have said that, with this political composition, we do not see any possibility of achieving a coalition that brings about some positive change. That is why we have not taken responsibility this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u135	It's just a grey record that turns off the SP fraction: a lot of criticism and few solutions. It's like you see the farm as a playground for all kinds of things that have to be done. And the prices are too high and meanwhile: well, poor peasants. Then I expect the SP to provide solutions to this. You had the chance to join a cabinet, but you didn't seize it. Then don't come up with stories like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u136	Mr Geurts often asks the same questions, then gets the same answer and complains about hearing a grey record. I think that is consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u137	Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u138	Mr President, on a point of order, or at least on a personal note. Mr Geurts did not put this question to the SP Group during this period and also during the previous period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u139	I got it. I got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u140	I said in my contribution that farmers are so often pushed into the fucking corner. I hear Mr Futselaar doing the same again. I find that extremely regrettable. My question to Mr Futselaar is as follows. In the last period of time, I cannot, of course, address Mr Futselaar. Your colleagues have been here so many times talking about employment when a company was falling apart or has actually gone bankrupt. Why does employment in agriculture and horticulture not count for Mr Futselaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u141	The employment situation there certainly counts, but in all these matters we have to weigh costs and benefits against each other. When I see that in a particular sector the pressure on society is so great that I think that this industry can no longer exist in that way, it does not matter to me whether it is a chemical company at Dordrecht, a farm somewhere else, or let's say an airport in the north of the country that is subsidised. Then you have to conclude at some point: this cannot continue. And then the plug can go out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u142	I note that Mr Futselaar's glass is not half empty, but simply completely empty when it comes to Dutch agriculture and horticulture. I certainly haven't heard him say anything about fishing. I note that you cannot give a single example in which you are proud of our agriculture and horticulture. Well, that's an extraordinary pity, isn't it? I regret to note that the SP, the party that is too often at the microphone here when it comes to the collapse of farms, farmers, gardeners and fishermen, is now leaving in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u143	I do not think that is a valid observation. I would also like to explain that. I think that if you do not now acknowledge that we cannot continue on this road, you will not please the same farmers, because in the longer term we are a moving train heading straight for a wall. But Mrs. Lodders challenged me. She said: you did not say anything positive that you are proud of. I find the reduction in the use of antibiotics in Dutch livestock farming impressive. We're not there yet; I'm not satisfied with that. But I find the decline impressive. There you have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u144	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u145	Good things are certainly happening, but I have limited speaking time. You didn't say anything ugly about agriculture. I'm more critical about things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u146	Very good. Mr De Groot. No, Mrs Lodders, we are going to listen to Mr De Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u147	No, no, Mr President, I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u148	You have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u149	Yeah, at least I have a personal fact. I learned it from my colleagues. Mrs Lodders has indeed addressed the concerns that also live in society in her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u150	Very good. That too is noted for eternity. I call Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u151	Mr. Chairman. Today I want to talk about health. I mean the sustainability of our food production, the vitality of our nature and, of course, the health of our children. First of all, the sustainability of our food production. Our farmers are among the most efficient in the world. Mrs Lodders has said so, but that is clearly limited to per unit of product. Still, we're exhausting the Earth. I don't blame anyone, but our way of producing food is not sustainable. It can be smarter if we consider our food production from the whole cycle. The key to renewal lies in the way we feed our animals. We feed our animals cereals. You can make bread out of that, too. There's soy in a lot of concentrated food. It's imported from South America, and it's not healthy for our Earth. If cows eat mainly grass, pigs mainly residual waste and chickens mainly insects, then we keep the Dutch landscape intact and save the rainforests. If, at the same time, we make the soil and crops healthy again, we need much less pesticides or fertilizers. In the end, that's better for the farmer and better for the earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u152	This analysis has taken me from the heart. The closure of loops, and certainly of the feed cycle in our livestock farming, is of great importance. Mr De Groot also puts the finger exactly on the sore spot, namely the use of land that we can also use for human consumption and the import of protein-rich crops from other continents. Does Mr De Groot agree with me that, if you think seriously about this, there is no alternative but to have consequences for the size of our livestock?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u153	Mr Grashoff is very early with this interruption, because I am still thinking through the system. But this is the funny thing. I'm just following your thoughts. I can see Mrs Ouwehand's interruption coming as well. Let's say we move on to fewer animals. That is a solution in search of a problem. What matters here is that we have to change the whole system. That's what this is about. If you start with "we need less animals," you keep the same system, but with fewer animals. So that doesn't help anyone at all. So you have no solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u154	This is a very special reversal. I'm not saying we need fewer animals and then we need a problem. I am simply referring to Mr De Groot's reasoning, with which I agree, as to its consequences. I didn't think of that consequence. They're just figures. Mr De Groot may also know the work of Mrs Imke de Boer, Professor in Wageningen, who has looked very specifically at this point. She says that there is a place for livestock farming and for meat consumption, but at a very different level than we know now. And: the way things are going, it's not sustainable. If Mr De Groot is so fair to just acknowledge that here, then we can continue to talk about how to highlight the directions for solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u155	You're creating a bit of a mockery. Of course I know the work of Imke de Boer, actually by Hannah van Zanten, her PhD candidate who has worked out this idea well. The summit of Wageningen is also working on this. She looks at the food system as a whole. We now produce 70% animal proteins and 30% plant proteins. This is not sustainable in the long term, because it disrupts the entire Dutch system, just because of the amount of manure we produce. It's actually a very wasteful system. That's why you need to change your balance. But you have to start considering the whole cycle and then move on step by step. I will do the same in the rest of my speech. But if you start with "so less animals," you'll knock the whole discussion down. If GroenLinks wants to simplify it very much in this way, that is fine, but I think it is a waste of our capacity here to do so and to get the debate going in this way. But if you do it right, you end up getting a different relationship between animal and plant production. That makes perfect sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u156	The last time I heard Mr De Groot about his idea of circulation, I also asked: but it is inevitable that the livestock will shrink. Then he said: I think it's a little early for that conclusion. I went back to the history of parliament for a moment. The very first citizens' initiative in the parliamentary history of the Netherlands was the citizens' initiative Stop wrong meat. They had been passed on, it is not new that meat consumption, meat production in the Netherlands should fall by 50%, if we want to protect nature, do justice to the protection of the rainforest and you name it all. That's what D66 was for back then. I remember that very well. Beautiful motions were supported and wonderful statements made. What happened in those ten years that D66 now says: we actually know better, in fact Mr De Groot should make a little circular farming plan for a while and then we will see if the livestock should shrink or not? I have only seen scientists who have further supported that citizens' initiative for climate, biodiversity, animal welfare and food security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u157	You're talking about meat consumption. That's a completely different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u158	And production.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u159	Yes, consumption and production.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u160	It was the livestock it was about in 2007 and 2008.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u161	Then why don't I peel it off? Consumption, that's a whole different story. D66 is for more plant products in our diet. That is quite clear, because we eat too much meat, more than is now recommended in the disc of five. That's incriminating. If you just eat according to the five-piece, then you should eat meat; that is just sustainable. So we need to look at various ways of reducing the consumption of meat. Only, that of course does not help the sustainability of total food production in the Netherlands, because we are very export-oriented. Twice you throw consumption and production at one heap in one sentence, with the word "less." Then it'll be a very confusing discussion. So we certainly need to reduce consumption. We do not solve anything with that in the Netherlands, but everyone must certainly do it for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u162	Absolutely. We need to eat less meat together. D66 is right about that. I am very interested in the proposals on this point. But it's not going very well, is it? We're still eating way too much meat. That is not good for our health and for sustainability. But I'll come back to those cattle anyway. D66 was convinced ten years ago, when dealing with the citizens' initiative, that the facts speak for themselves: given climate, nature, animal welfare and food security, livestock should also shrink in the Netherlands. Now the story is: we don't know yet, we're going to see if we can solve it with another way of feeding the animals. What happened? You don't have science on your side. It only confirmed what we knew then, ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u163	'Science', 'the citizens' initiative': they are big concepts, but I ask Mrs Ouwehand to just think with me. I say the same thing to her as to Mr Grashoff. Let us think through the whole system of circular agriculture for once and see where we can remove the obstacles that exist. I'm going to talk about that. Then you see that we can incredibly improve the sustainability of our food production. If farmers are able to distinguish themselves in the market, they do not need to earn their money with current production. After all, farmers are entrepreneurs with families who want to make money. They can then produce with less, earn more. That's what it's about in the end. But again, let's not start this discussion with "so fewer animals." We may be able to get out of there, but let's take it one step at a time. That seems a lot more careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u164	Very good. You have used up one minute of your speaking time, so you still have sixteen to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u165	The entrepreneurs are going to do it eventually. They want to move towards a healthy cycle, but they face all kinds of obstacles. We need to take stock of these obstacles. Let me give you a few examples. There are incredibly many residual streams that we can't use right now. And there's the fertilizer we need to feed while we're draining the animal manure. We also give corn to cows on a large scale. This may lead to greater production, but leads to a lower quality of manure, let alone to a healthy soil. Speaking of soil, we have actually forgotten it in the whole of agricultural education. The farmer is advised, not by consultants but by sellers of feed, pesticides and fertilizer. Of course, we have to take a good look at that. Where is the farmer's independent advice? 'Cause all those advisors, salesmen, they only want one thing, and that's making money to the farmer. I've been talking to farmers all my life. Many of them want to go for quality and a healthy cycle, but face all kinds of obstacles. Is the Minister prepared to come to a green deal of circular agriculture with entrepreneurs, knowledge institutions and others? In this way, we can work concretely to achieve more sustainable agricultural production with fewer rules. And is the Minister prepared to draw up an overview of legislation that hinders a healthy cycle? Of course, I also ask her to remove these obstacles, but first the overview. Mr. Chairman. In recent years in politics, we have muffled the pit several times if the calf had drowned. I'm talking about phosphate, ammonia and soil-bound growth. Issue for issue addressed this Chamber; Mr Futselaar sketched it nicely. The need for system change and vision is very clear and is also recognised in the coalition agreement. Circle farming and soil are central to this. An efficient cycle is also better for the climate. If less is thrown away, more is reused and more sustainable with the earth, that is of course good. But then there's the coalition agreement. I have a question about that. It is proposed to reduce 3.5 megatons of CO in our food production. If I do, the total climate impact of our food production is 18 or 26 megatons; it's just what numbers you're using. But let me assume 18 megatons. This spring, in January, there will be a proposal from Brussels to reduce 36% of our CO production. And then I don't get to 3.5 megatons that we should reduce, but almost double that. So my sincere question to the Minister is: how do you see it and how do you see the proposals in the government agreement in relation to what is going to come to us from Brussels? The other question I have is how does the Minister view the possibility offered by the Paris Convention of storing carbon in the soil? That means not under the soil, but in the soil we use for our production. Ireland is well committed to this and let it count. I am very curious to see how the Minister sees it in order for agriculture to make a positive contribution to the climate in this way. In order to bring about a transition from food production to healthy cycles, the philosophy of the top sector of Agri & food must also change from improving linear efficiency to improving circular efficiency. That means we don't waste finite raw materials anymore, but we use them to feed our animals. What is the Minister's position on adapting this philosophy in the top sectors? It is very important to strengthen the level playing field. There is now forced shopping in the top sector, because institutes like TNO and Wageningen University are actually competing with, for example, the Veenweiden Innovation Centre or the Animal Health Service. That is the case: by means of co-financing from the business community, the questions that are being asked are actually getting closer and closer in time. They are therefore becoming less fundamental in nature. These are more questions that can also be answered in the market. At the moment, there is no level playing field and there is therefore false competition to the detriment of the institutions I have just mentioned. There are about fifteen of them, so I really want to ask the Minister to discuss this point with her colleague, Mr Wiebes, in order to eventually create a level playing field for the best research for the innovations we need. A healthy cycle means you have to focus on cleaning up. The government agreement proposes that pig farming should be targeted, where there are problems for public health or the environment. That is a good point, but how is the Minister going to shape it without the immediate start of goat farming in the empty stables? That is actually a subsidy to goat farming. How's the secretary gonna prevent that? I'm just going to go through the cycle a little more specifically with you. I'll start with the feed. The FAO has warned against the continued use of cereals as animal feed. That puts the food supply at risk. So we have to be careful with that. We need to use more waste streams as feed. The potential is enormous. If we make better use of these residual flows, such as animal meal, we can reduce the area that is now needed for the production of pig feed by 20%. We can reduce the number of hectares of soya built up by 268 000 hectares; only by changing legislation! What is the Minister's position on the ban on meat-and-bone meal in this respect? We can also free up a huge amount of extra feed by reducing food waste. The ambitions are enormous: reducing food waste by half by 2030. I haven't heard from the Minister yet. That is not surprising, but I am curious to see how it will contribute to this objective, because that is quite an ambition. Then the bottom. A healthy soil plays a very crucial role in a cycle. In Brabant, ZLTO started a soil passport. That is actually a website on which farmers can gain insight into the condition of their soil on the basis of many variables and also in the use of that soil. For example, do you use heavy machinery on it? Minister, would you like to embrace this initiative and ensure that this can also be used in other parts of the Netherlands? Can this green initiative and its experience be shared? Fertilizer. Fertiliser is a finite raw material and simply does not fit in a healthy cycle. That is why D66 wants alternatives to be given priority. I am talking about the new regulation on biostimulants. That's very good. We agree, but the impact is left to the business community itself in the Dutch standardisation institute NEN. If you pay, you decide. Small companies, for example, who want to work with seaweed and other innovative products, are not included. How does the Minister ensure that the fertilizer lobby called Mr Graus who does not strike there either? Animal manure. The regulation of animal manure limits a healthy cycle. I mentioned all the examples. The regulations and the techniques for spreading manure are also outdated. It is also scientifically highly controversial whether that is really good for the soil. The application of manure leads to a reduction in the oxygen content of the soil. I ask the Minister whether this legislation and technique can be reviewed. Plant protection. I'm formulating a starting point. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she agrees: only chemicals if there are no effective and environmentally safe biological means. D66 is concerned that in the event of the removal of the pesticide exemption scheme, resources of general agricultural interest but without a clear owner, such as garlic and beer, will disappear, although some have already been granted. Who's gonna watch that? Who feels the owner of these fabrics? Is that what the Minister wants to do as an adoptive minister? How does the Minister deal with the results of the green deal on crop protection? Looks like he's bleeding out a little bit now. Finally, on plant protection: there is a 120-day deadline for the approval of green plant protection products, but this is not achieved. How's the minister gonna get those 120 days at the Ctgb? Then dates. There is a lot of talk about precision farming. There are a number of promising initiatives: SmartDairyFarming, Potato Valley, DroneHub Eelde and so on. There is a particular need for direction and a smart use of data. How's the secretary gonna direct this? Finally, how will the Minister ensure that the common agricultural policy contributes to the transition to circular agriculture? Then the vitality of our nature. For the new cabinet, the protection of important open spaces such as the Green Heart, the Wadden Sea and the Veluwe is an important part of spatial policy. D66 stands all the way behind the 275 million extra for nature and water quality. Good plans have come from nature organisations. As far as we're concerned, the Marker Wadden are definitely one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u166	Mr De Groot's speech was taken from my heart. He called for a coherent approach, with the whole agricultural system making a system leap. Instead of a linear increase in productivity, agriculture needs to be made much more circular. I am therefore very pleased with that, but I note that Mr De Groot is asking a number of specific questions. This calls for a number of specific measures. Shouldn't that be much better in coherence and can it be done? Shouldn't a lot of parties be involved? You're talking about a green deal. I say to that: a national agreement on agriculture and nature. To do so, all parties from the whole chain must be brought together to make the leap. Would you be for such a thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u167	The government agreement also states that the Minister will involve parties in the preparation of long-term visions. I think you mean the same thing, because you don't do that alone. You don't do that from the room. You don't just do it as a minister if you want support. So I assume the Minister is going to do something like that. I would like to ask the Minister, perhaps I even forgot, so thank you for asking me if she is prepared to start that process with a proper inventory of the legal obstacles you encounter in the cycle. I've appointed a number of them. You have to map it properly and then actually talk to the people involved. Eventually, they have to do it. That is one aspect. The other aspect is that you give entrepreneurs who already want and already have ideas the opportunity to do it. That's what the green deal's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u168	I hear Mr De Groot saying that there must be a common vision. I do agree with that, although I would like to make the point that the boundary between vision and hallucination is sometimes thin. A common vision is important, but with a coherent package of agreements similar to the energy agreement, I think you are making real progress. Do you share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u169	Again, you can't do this alone. I think you're very sympathetic, but she's also in the coalition agreement. So I'm not going to say, Madam Secretary, do you want to do what the PvdA proposes? I am very pleased with what you have said and fully agree with it, but it is up to the Minister to do so and to implement the coalition agreement. It says that long-term visions are being drawn up with a lot of stakeholders. What we're going to call it, we can write a contest for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u170	I would like to ask my colleague as a coalition partner how he stands with regard to a life-long restraining ban and a professional ban on recidivist animal executioners. Mr Moorlag has already said during an AO that he is sympathetic to a professional ban. The CDA's spokesmen on Justice and Security also have feelings about recidivist animal executioners, but what does D66 say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u171	By "professional ban," you don't mean they can't appeal anymore, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u172	Let me stick to the life-long restraining order. If something happens several times at a slaughterhouse that is not acceptable, then it is recidivists and then it becomes a professional ban. That could also apply to a farmer who goes wrong over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u173	From my party, D66, Mr Schouw once started a permanent restraining order. There is now a proposal from the Minister for Justice and Security. That's what we're gonna talk about as a room. I think you have come a long way. As far as it fits into that proposal, we'll find each other, too. At the same time, you're suggesting that we go even further. I will not go along with that, but I think we can find each other in the proposals that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u174	In any budget, I am calling for a life-long ban on the keeping of animals for recidivist animal executioners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u175	But for that there are proposals in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u176	That's right. It was raised once from three years to ten years. That happened at the time Mr. Schouw was still in the room. I'm talking about someone who's a recidivist animal executioner. And there are quite a few, because an animal executioner is by definition a recidivist. Then they must be banned from keeping animals for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u177	Again, I think there are proposals for this. That's what we're gonna talk about. My colleague, Mr Groothuizen, is concerned about this. I think that Mr Schouw's ideas have led to very sensible proposals which go a long way towards Mr Grashoff, pardon Mr Graus. This mistake is due to the roll-call votes; it is always close to one another. Mr President, let me take back to the plans for nature and water quality, the 275 million. The question to the Minister was whether she and the organisations concerned could come up with a plan that supports nature and water sustainably. The Marker Wadden are part of that as far as D66 is concerned. Then the national parks. Actually, that's a very nice piece in the coalition chord. Except there's not that much else. Is the Minister prepared to draw up a policy? Something's been prepared, but it needs to be finished. Then we also need funding for the next six years. Something does say, but what is needed structuralally to implement the policy properly? As far as our group is concerned, what we have now is not enough. What would be more beautiful than adding a new national park to the beautiful list we have. I'm talking about Nieuwland. That is where the Oostvaardersplassen lie, which will last for 50 years next year. The Zuiderzee Act is 100 years old. They are already very far in the preparation of a new national park. What would be more beautiful than a very benevolent consideration by the Minister about this? That is also the request I am making.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u178	Let's talk about the national parks. I'm just dissecting for myself what D66 is saying here. At the moment, isn't it the policy that State Forestry has been asked to set up an executive agency? That agency should structurally anchor the goals of the National Parks Program. A total of 2.6 million has been made available for the period 2018-2022. That's standing policy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u179	Yeah, State Forestry's working on that vision. It's almost ready, as I understand it, but not very practical yet. That was the first part. Is the Minister prepared to just finish that now, so that we also know what the rules are for the designation of national parks? The other part is financial. I hear from the sector that it is not enough. What's going on is a little information. Apart from State Forestry, there are a few volunteers who do it. If we do it, we do it right and how we do it now, there's a little bit in between. It is of course also something for which D66 has always worked hard together with the Labour Party, think of Stientje van Veldhoven. So it is something close to our heart. I'd like to hear from the Minister what it takes to do it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u180	I conclude from this that the D66 Group wants additional things on top of what was agreed in the government agreement on national parks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u181	If that fits in with the Minister's policy. Of course, she is going to do a very good job, but if she has room for this, she will implement the agreement in the government agreement that the policy will continue. If that fits in with the need for additional funds, that fits us as far as we are concerned. But let's wait and see the Minister's proposal. Let me turn to the next point. When it comes to preserving and restoring nature, D66 welcomes the ambition of the cabinet, as stated in the coalition agreement. D66 has calculated that 400 million a year will be needed to achieve the European nature objectives which the Minister stands for. The increase in the Municipal and Provincial Funds is about 2 billion structural per year. How much does the Minister intend to need in the negotiations with the provinces to achieve its objectives, which she reports to Brussels on? Mr. Chairman. The Wadden Sea administration deserves reinforcement. Three key concepts are central: it must be effective; it must be practical and it must have a broad working area, not only nature but also shipping and ports. But it shouldn't be a moloch either, and that means it has to be practical. The government pays EUR 4.5 billion for wind at sea and there is also money to make fishing more sustainable. We believe it is important that the process of setting up the North Sea takes place very carefully. We are also doing this with Mr Wiebes, but there are also a large number of organisations that can link nature in a smart way to that 4.5 billion wind investment at sea. I would ask the Minister to carry out this process very carefully so that all interests can be included. Then the monitoring of nature, biodiversity and landscape. In 2012, the policy is decentralised and there are all kinds of organisations that are part of the system responsibility. But OBN, NEM and the NDFF have gotten between ship and ship and the funding and suspension are worrying. The question for the Minister is therefore whether she wants to sit down with these organisations in 2018, so that in 2019, when the current funding period ends, everything can be properly highlighted, the suspension is arranged and the people know where it is going. I also say to Mr Geurts here: the 30,000 volunteers behind it deserve to be able to do their job by the organisations that accompany them and we are really in the middle of a dime. We had a hearing about the loss of biodiversity the other day. This actually showed that we are very poorly monitoring soil biodiversity and small insects. The question for the Minister is whether she wants to support that process of the delta plan biodiversity and whether she wants to take a favourable look at the possible need to extend monitoring to soil and small insects. Finally, this piece. You have noticed that I have spoken about protecting the seas, restoring ecosystems and biodiversity. Those are like two Sustainable Development Goals. Sorry about English. I haven't heard from the Minister yet, but how is the Minister going to incorporate these objectives into her policy? We used to have one fat child in the Netherlands and that was called Dik Trom. Today, many children are less healthy because they no longer know where our food comes from. What would be more beautiful than to give these children another opportunity to experience how beautiful it is to harvest for themselves and thus to bridge between city and country? With that, we can also bring incredibly much more health to those children. We are now spending 90 billion on healthcare without blinking our eyes, of which at least 10 to 20 billion on preventing welfare diseases. Often they are children from families with a smaller scholarship. So I would rather call it 'poverty diseases', such as diabetes, certain cardiovascular diseases and brain bleeds. The cabinet has made 170 million available. A food policy has already been set up by your predecessor. The request to the Minister is to sit down with her colleague Mr Blokhuis to make it a single prevention policy, in which health, food and food education are an integral part. Mr. Chairman. Before I finish, I'm going to do a special round of honor for the animals. The coalition agreement has said the necessary thing about this. I'm so proud of that. The hearing on animal-free innovations showed that it is mainly about direction. We can achieve the goal of being test-free or test-poor by 2020, but then we need to strengthen the direction. The organization stands, the goals are there, it's just about the direction. I'm looking at the minister: how is she going to take control? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Health is our basis. And that base is our food. Let's go back to thinking about this base. Let us, as the Netherlands, lead the way and teach the world how to start producing our food from a healthy cycle in balance with the environment. What would be more beautiful than to have our children awe again and have fun in the miracle that our food is? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u182	I did think for a moment, "Where are the animals?', So, on behalf of my colleague, Mr Wassenberg, I ask D66 to support his amendment to put an end to animal testing by using alternatives. My question is: what about the animals in the livestock industry? Maybe the next question is relevant. Mr De Groot just made a proposal on food education, if I understood correctly. Are there any concrete proposals to ensure that we all eat less meat and more fruit and vegetables? Although the latter will be a bit difficult with the VAT increase. How does D66 see that? How are we really gonna send that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u183	Can you repeat the question? I hear so many questions that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u184	I asked for it in an earlier interruption too. D66 acknowledges that we all eat too much meat, both for our own health and for sustainability. Then I wonder how we're gonna bring it down. What are the concrete plans? I hear there's 170 million for some food education. It must meet a number of criteria, must it not? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u185	One in 100 kids eat according to the five-piece. So that's not so much. The others are also often children who do not eat breakfast and therefore learn less, perform less, have less chance on the labour market, become unhealthy, etc. When it comes to healthy eating, it's about balance. As far as I'm concerned, that balance is just in the five-piece. There's meat in there too, there's dairy in there, there's all kinds of healthy products in there, and of course there's fruit and vegetables. As far as I am concerned, the approach of this food policy is that children learn to eat according to the disc of five. But that is not only a mental process, but also something to experience. That is why I find the idea of school gardens so charming, that already has a place in that food policy. If you've harvested and brought home that food yourself to cook, you're even going to like Brussels sprouts or radishes. While they're usually pretty tricky for kids. I know from my own experience that once you've done that yourself and brought it home, you'll always stay with me. That is a nice contribution to food according to the disc of five, healthy and sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u186	But finally... That idea of a vegetable garden and school garden is, of course, very charming. This Chamber has been excited about that for quite some time. But it's a bit like what the PVV did when it started to rule: a lot of savings on nature policy and as a cloth for bleeding there were school gardens. No one's against school gardens. But the cuts in nature policy, of course, were not smart. Does D66 really mean that children should eat more fruit and vegetables? They increase the VAT on fruit and vegetables. There is also no proposal to effectively reduce meat consumption, while the Food Centre also says that we eat too much meat. Then those vegetable gardens would be a cloth for the bleeding, wouldn't they? There's got to be more in there with D66, right? I think they mean it: more fruit and vegetables, less meat. How are we gonna fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u187	The Food Centre says above all: eat according to the disc of five, because that is sustainable and healthy. These are the recommendations of the Food Centre. For keeping the animals themselves, the coalition agreement has very nice plans that we can be very proud of. That's not a tissue for the bleeding. This is the first time in years. There has never been so much written about animal welfare as in this coalition agreement. As far as VAT is concerned, if you make a carrot a bit cheaper, children are not going to eat carrots anymore. All families are just getting better, so they can buy a lot more fruit and vegetables. But once you've had that experience of school gardens, you've experienced how healthy and nutritious it can all be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u188	Mr De Groot and I organised a hearing on biodiversity together with Mrs Dik-Faber. I had the feeling that we were both in there with a lot of concern about what is actually going on in the Netherlands. I also had the idea that there would be a fairly unambiguous analysis of our ten top scientists. What conclusions does Mr De Groot draw here on the urgency and on the steps to be taken in the coming period in relation to the restoration of biodiversity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u189	In any case, I am very pleased with the consensus among the scientists we had invited. When you put scientists together at the table, you usually have as many opinions as scientists. The urgency here is very great, because they very much agreed that biodiversity in the Netherlands is in real danger. They also agreed that there is currently insufficient monitoring of soil and small insects. I think that's something we need to work with acutely. Hence the request to the Minister on this matter. Secondly, I am really pleased with the initiative for the delta plan on biodiversity. This is a broad initiative of scientists, nature organisations, but especially LTO Netherlands. I really have to praise them for joining us. This will also have consequences, because you will have to come out with each other. I think that, as a Chamber, we should support that process and give it our full support. Hence the request to the Minister, perhaps the Christian Union will do the same to support that process with advice and deed and perhaps a very small amount of money. So, yeah, what happened there last week is incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u190	I would have liked to have a more substantive answer. I am pleased with this and share Mr De Groot's thinking, but I think that two concepts have always emerged in the whole of these scientists' speech. The first was 'plant protection products', but even more often the word'nitrogen' appeared, in my opinion, to almost all scientists. Then I read in the coalition agreement that the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen is simply being continued, while these scientists say that the nitrogen load is far too high. RIVM figures indicate that the amount of ammonia in the air has increased rather than decreased in the last ten years. Does Mr De Groot agree with me that the statement that we are simply going to continue the PAS is not sustainable? Should we not consider this in the context of the biodiversity issue and seriously call it into question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u191	I think the PAS is still too short to go on the kick, but you are right: nitrogen and plant protection products were both problematic. But I wouldn't want to address this issue here in this Chamber. That is why I have just asked the Minister to get those 120 days from the green plant protection products, to keep an eye on those biostimulants and to do the whole cycle seriously again. If you have a healthy soil, you need much less or no crop protection. If you can use your animal manure neatly and well and if it's of good quality, then you haven't let it rot in a dung cellar instead of making a nicely matured product of it, then we can use that manure very cleverly to make the soil healthy again. I think you should take the whole picture. That's the chance we have now. I wouldn't want to do that issue again for issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u192	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u193	I've finished, but I can do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u194	Well, shouldn't we? Get out of here very quickly, or Mr. Futzelaar is going to ask you another question. Oh, there he is. Mr. Funtselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u195	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but I just let the little debate kick in. I would like to go even further on the urgency of biodiversity. I understand that Mr De Groot says: I want to set out a number of lines, then we will get to work and see what we can get out of this. Let me ask him this question. Let's say we're two years away, halfway through this cabinet, and the numbers aren't better. The decline has been continued, so to speak. Are you now ready to say: then we will have to act more radically and not just leave something to the sector, for example? It's very nice when appointments are made, but appointments and executions are two different things. We both know that. It's nice when monitoring is done, but with monitors you don't solve a problem; you can only miss it. Are you prepared to say: okay, but then, as a government, perhaps we should step up our efforts to combat this decline?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u196	I think this is a good question. I share the frustration of my colleague. I also see this Chamber going from incident to incident. We really need to get out of there sometime. That's the chance we have now. And yeah, we're gonna sit around the table voluntarily first. But if you have followed the input in recent months, then you have also seen that I have always said, for example, about the Delta approach to agricultural water management: we will see if it works, but if it doesn't work, we will arrange it ourselves. In part, I can go with you. We're gonna take a good look at it now. In the coalition agreement, for example, you can read about grazing that we are giving the sector a chance to meet its own objectives. But if that is not the case, there will be legislation by 2020. I'm going a long way with you. The sector now has a chance to do it. That requires incredibly much leadership, and that is what we want to see now. I am confident that this Minister will be able to mobilise that leadership to an approach that will enable us to know where we want to be by 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u197	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u198	It's a clear reaction. It is now December 6, 2017. On 6 December 2019 I will return to Mr De Groot if nothing has improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u199	It's on the record. Mr Moorlag (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. He shall have five minutes' speaking time in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u200	Mr. Chairman. I'd better drop the door in the house. How does this minister want to be remembered, how does she intend to go into history? Did she ask herself that question when she arrived? Does she want to go down in history as a minister in the series of rulers? Or does it want to go down in history as a minister in the series of statesmen: not a minister who is remembered for having released a beautiful glossy, but the minister who really managed to tackle and cope with the crisis in agriculture? Does it have the courage, the courage, the vision and the perseverance for that? Does she dare to go against the current? Does she dare to lead a process to solve the crisis in agriculture? Agriculture is in crisis. Agriculture is also something that has been underlined by some spokesmen of great importance and of great value to this country. There are a lot of things we can be very proud of. But agriculture is also accompanied by unacceptable environmental damage, destruction of nature, excessive disease pressure and loss of biodiversity. The PvdA thinks it's very simple: it has to stop. We can no longer close our eyes to that. Agriculture is a problem. But agriculture is also the key to a solution, a solution to large-scale global problems. Because we are faced with the question of how we are going to feed 9 billion people in the future and how the sector is going to deliver green raw materials in the future, which will require a lot of space. My question to the Minister is very specific as to whether she wants to lead a change that will lead to the production of food and green raw materials taking place in a different way, more in balance with ecology. My question is whether the Minister would like to organise a concerted effort to bring the agricultural sector, the food industry, the retail sector and the nature and environmental organisations to the table, to get parties out of their shooters' pits and to bring them to the table in order to conclude a national agreement on nature and landscape in line with the energy agreement. I think that's why this country's screaming. It is simply essential that we have such a coherent approach and that we get out of the shooter's pits here too, because I see parties who, on the one hand, almost serve as a permanent applause for agriculture and, on the other hand, scourge and torture the sector in the hope that it will follow repentance in one go. We need to get out of those positions. Mr President, another subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u201	Before you do that, there is a question, the final interruption for the Animal Party, by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u202	Sharp analysis by the Labour Party group on the problems of current agriculture. I agree, but there is still a question. It is not new and Mr Moorlag was not in the Chamber during the past period, but the Labour Party had a very competent director in Agriculture, Mrs Dijksma. Then there's no lack of self-reflection here, is there? Why didn't the Labour Party take a chance when it itself had him under the previous cabinet to initiate the changes it is now asking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u203	Unlike the Animal Party, the Labour Party has had to make experience with the compromise in coalitions. During the previous cabinet period, a great deal has happened, particularly on climate grounds. A national energy agreement was reached there. It is now high time for a national agreement on agriculture and nature, similar to the process followed by the Energy Agreement and in which the ESC has had a leading role. That energy chord tastes like more. There it has been possible not to physically, but mentally, table parties who have been in each other's lives for decades and to come up with a common long-term agenda and also a common programme to make a real change in the system. This change in the system is, to my taste, also very much needed for this sector. Perhaps it could have been done sooner, but thankfully the Labour Party now takes that view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u204	Yeah, but that's only good for us as a party... it's like D66 and the Labour Party are changing a little bit. At the moment when Conservative farming parties are ruled, that doesn't really matter very much: agriculture is suddenly the underprivileged child. Then the ideals go away. There's nothing we can do about that now. The Labour Party no longer controls. The least she can do here is to admit that she knew the problems, but that she simply didn't think it was important enough and that she therefore allowed the problems to continue. While Mrs Dijksma should perhaps have started the change that the Labour Party is now asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u205	It cuts me through my soul when it is said here that the Labour Party has lost its ideals or pushed them aside. That's not true. But the Labour Party does follow a different course than the Animal Party. Then the question is, what are you doing? Stay wallowing in your own sideline with a pure and pure message, which of course is very legitimate, or choose the way, as sinful reformists, of the step by step achievement of improvements. Sometimes there is a moment of urgency when you say: now is the time for a system breakthrough. That was the case with the energy agenda four years ago. I would like to see a system break through now with the agricultural and nature agenda and a broad agreement on agriculture and nature by analogy with the energy agreement. Mr President, another point. The Minister is a coordinating director for regional policy. 900 million has been earmarked for six tasks, not exhaustively. The PvdA would like money to be allocated for more vitality in the countryside and then specifically in the top shrinkage regions of South Limburg, Noordoost-Groningen, the Veenkoloniën and Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. As a ruler, Eberhard van der Laan had the generosity to make 33 million available for these areas in 2009. My question to the Minister is: will she follow Mr Van der Laan's footsteps and allocate a budget of equal size to the shrinking regions in order to improve the quality of life in those areas? The Labour Party wants the ecological and CO footprint of agriculture to decrease significantly, nationally and internationally. Mr De Groot has argued that there is going to be a change in our food pattern. Less production and consumption of animal products, not by putting the gun on the chest of citizens with the "you will become vegetarian," but by encouraging the production of foods that can compete with meat products in terms of nutritional value but also in terms of experience quality. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to make an effort internationally and nationally to encourage the production and consumption of those full meat substitutes. There's a big job ahead of you. There's a lot of profit to be made there. Is she also prepared to allocate funds to promote this? Mr. Chairman. Nature and landscape are under great pressure. National landscapes have not been national since 2010 and national parks lead a somewhat languishing existence. I would like to join Mr De Groot in making an effort to ensure that these national parks have a better continuity perspective and dangle less than they are doing now. Mr President, there are two final points. The first is that the coalition agreement requires a management authority for the Wadden Sea. The PvdA agrees. We need to untangle the administrative spaghetti. The PvdA believes that nature and tourism are the most important functions in the Wadden region. The PvdA therefore also considers that the Ministry of LNV should have central control and control over that managing authority. My question is whether the Minister shares that view. Mr. Chairman. My speaking time is up, but I would like to do another afterburner. Mrs Zwanet Faber just asked me by e-mail if I wanted to save the Groninger Blaarkop. That's what I'm getting from the heart. My question to the Minister is whether she wants to do this. Does she want to give those other rare pet breeds the protection and position they deserve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u206	Thank you. Then we'll listen to Mrs. Dik-Faber. She has a nine-minute speaking time. Then we're gonna listen to the Party for the Animals for an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 1 November was a thank-you day for the crop and the labor, but how often do we think about how special it is to have food at our disposal every day? We should be proud of the people who produce our food: farmers, gardeners and fishermen. The Christian Union is pleased that there is again a Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, including its own ministry. There are also considerable challenges, such as restoring confidence in food safety, maintaining the derogation, tackling manure fraud, defending Dutch fishermen in Brussels and protecting nature, biodiversity and landscape in the Netherlands. Painful measures will also have to be taken, but then it is good to know that there is a minister who has a heart for these people and for their family business. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union stands for sustainable agriculture, with food as a guide. Fully sustainable agriculture is about an agricultural practice that delivers good and safe food, with fair prices for farmers and gardeners, which relieves the environment and leads to improved biodiversity on the farmland. As early as 2014, the WRR, the Scientific Council for Government Policy, advocated a food policy, including key issues such as public health, environmental sustainability, biodiversity and good management of natural resources. Recently, I myself adopted the SDG 12 sustainable development goal on sustainable consumption and production. The new common agricultural policy offers opportunities for this. The Christian Union is keen to see a broad food agenda drawn up, inter alia, in response to SDG 12 and the report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy. Is that what the Minister wants? Mr. Chairman. SDG 12 is also about food waste. Every year in the Netherlands, we throw away at least 5 billion euros of food. The Minister made an excellent proposal to the Commissioner, which the Christian Union has often called for, to delete the expiry date on products such as rice. The coalition agreement also contains a fine sentence about food waste, namely: "Where necessary and possible, supermarkets and restaurants will be given more space to donate surpluses to food banks." Is the Minister going to make this legally possible? Will it amend legislation? Or does she see other ways to ensure that good food is also used properly? Mr. Chairman. Sustainable agriculture is also about a good income for the farmer and the future of the family farms in our country. The government agreement strengthens the position of farmers in the production chain so that they can work more together and we can combat market power in the chain. The supervision of the ACM and the general connecting declarations are mentioned, including in the coalition agreement. How's the Minister gonna do this? Only 40% of agricultural holdings have a successor. Less than 4% of Dutch farmers are under 35 years of age. Without a new generation of farmers, the family farms and thus the food production from our country disappear. It is good that there will be a fund of EUR 75 million for young farmers. This fund will be launched in the coming year, but we are now getting questions from family businesses about how this is going to take shape. When can we see the Minister's plans? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union considers it important to connect farmers and citizens more closely, for example through the Citizens & Boeren 4 Food initiative, where crowdfunding is applied. But I also call Boerburger Tweet. The government is going to support initiatives that strengthen this connection. How's the secretary gonna pick this up? According to the Christian Union, it is about creating a socially healthy food system. Multifunctional agriculture makes an important contribution to the viability of the rural area and to farmers' income models. Is the Minister prepared to support multifunctional agriculture initiatives? Mr. Chairman. Climate change puts food production under pressure due to more extreme weather conditions. Farmers can contribute to the solution. Innovation in the farmyard provides solutions to societal problems. Examples are concepts such as capturing carbon in agricultural land, reducing emissions of particulate matter or clean energy. A good example is the Stichting Proefboerderijen Noordelijke Akkerbouw (Stichting Proefboerderijen Noordelijke Akkerbouw), which wants to reduce the use of chemicals. The FoodValley Region has also started work on the Manifest Healthy Environment Farming. I also mention carbon farmers in the South of the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to look into the possibilities of supporting these initiatives in the run-up to the Spring Paper? I would ask the Minister to pay particular attention to the future of the peat meadow areas with their high greenhouse gas emissions. How does the Minister work with flexible level management and underwater drainage? Does it want to talk to the agricultural sector about the future of agriculture in peat meadows? Mr. Chairman. Nature and biodiversity are under pressure in the Netherlands. Yesterday, Bird Protection pointed out to us the new red list of endangered Dutch breeding birds, to which, among other things, the tulip was added. There are also concerns about insects and soil life. Eighteen organisations from agriculture, horticulture and science, and nature organisations are now working on the delta plan biodiversity to protect the natural capital of the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to support this fine initiative? In this context, I would also like to refer to the 275 million earmarked for nature and water quality in the coalition agreement. We look forward to completing the Minister's plans. Many farmers have worked enthusiastically to protect meadow birds but fail to do so because there is no proper predator management possible. Just now I read the story of Cor, Menhard and Jaap van de Groningen land, who have been working on this for years but simply fail. Does the Minister recognise this and is she prepared to launch a broad multi-annual pilot that these guys are asking for, in which a combination of measures is possible, such as water level management but also predator management? A year ago, I adopted a motion on better protection for farmland birds. Perhaps the Minister has already taken note of this. I wonder what steps it intends to take in this area. Mr. Chairman. For the public, the fipronil crisis has been over for months, but 291 companies are still in a very worrying situation. The recently adopted standard for fipronil in manure causes problems for entrepreneurs. Does the Minister see possibilities for the NVWA to have the manure sampled to check that all manure has actually been contaminated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u208	An interruption by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u209	Mrs Dik-Faber called for the restoration of biodiversity, concerned about meadow birds. I am very curious to hear her response to Mr De Groot's speech, which was also implicitly an argument for a system leap, for a different arrangement of not only the sector but the whole system. I have argued in favour of bringing parties together to see if we can reach a national agreement on landscape and nature. For years we have tried to combat the degradation of nature with all kinds of patchwork. Do you agree with me that we really need to work on a system jump and bring the parties together for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u210	I have made a plea for sustainable agriculture. For me, sustainable agriculture is a form in which ecology and economics go hand in hand. Then you talk about good stewardship, care for creation, but also about a fair income for the farmer, about a future for his family business. I think that should be balanced. What I like to see is that the agricultural sector itself has taken the initiative, together with green organisations, to come up with a plan of action to restore biodiversity. I also asked for this initiative to be embraced and perhaps supported; that would be very nice. I also think it is important to point out that farmers cannot do this alone. This requires real cooperation from all the links in the chain. So if the question is "farmers are just gonna fix it?', Then the answer is no, absolutely not. That requires everyone, from farmer to supermarket and ultimately also the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u211	I also have that view: you have to look at the whole chain and not just at the farmers who often sit between hammer and image. Farmers are also trapped in a particular production system. Would it not be good to bring parties together in accordance with the national energy agreement? That's where parties finally came out of their shooter pits. They have succeeded in creating a long-term agenda, a long-term programme. Do you share my view that this is a good approach that deserves to be followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u212	I don't know what name to name the animal. I myself referred to this as a food agenda, because it can also be a way of bringing parties together. I do believe, however, that parties should be brought together because everyone must contribute to this. Every link in the chain has responsibility and will therefore have to contribute to it. The great thing about the Labour Party's speech is that, if there are any changes, we should not dictate that here in The Hague, but that we should do so together with the farmers and give them some form underneath. If we can take steps like this, I'd like to work together on this. I'm moving on. I was in the middle of the fipronil affair. There is a capacity problem in manure processing. Temporary storage of manure on Defence sites as an intermediate solution does not seem possible either. Would the Minister like to discuss this with the sector and inform the Chamber about the results? Mr. Chairman. Yesterday a delegation of young farmers visited the Chamber. We have received them as a result of the introduction of the phosphate rights system. They call themselves Innovative from the Knel. These young people understand very well that maintaining the derogation is now paramount. They'd like to think along with that. At the same time, they really want to see a future for their business. They have drawn up a number of ideas for this. Will the Minister discuss this with them in the course of next year? Mr. Chairman. Not all young farmers make it. I get reactions from the country that there are farmers who have to pay high fines within a few weeks. That simply cannot be done. The AMvB has not yet arrived and no individual assessment has yet been carried out. I ask the Minister whether there are any possibilities for these young companies to obtain a form of deferment of payment. Mr. Chairman. Then briefly the Stichting Rare Petraces. I have drawn attention to this in recent years. This organisation is committed to the conservation of rare cattle, horses, sheep and other animals, but also of special crops. My group is proposing an amendment so that we can reserve a relatively small amount to restore this foundation's budget. It is an amount of €120,000. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that. In this context, I would also like to refer to the sheep-skuddes. They have already been sufficiently discussed in the interruption with Mr Geurts. Mr. Chairman. Time's moving fast. I'm here for fishing. The government agreement includes an innovation budget for the fisheries sector. For example, hardly any research has been carried out in the Netherlands on technological innovation to reduce fishing mortality. Innovations are expensive for fishermen. Moreover, exemption or temporary adaptation of legislation is often required. How will the Minister use this money efficiently, together with the fishermen? Will it consider launching research in close cooperation with fishermen and second-rate money flow organisations for university and practical research? Then there are the regional bottlenecks. This Minister will also deal with the regional economy and employment. For example, the government agreement mentions deals with the local authorities. The Christian Union sees many opportunities, including in Zeeland, North Netherlands and the Eindhoven region, but also in the Food Valley with the World Food Center. How's the Minister going with this? Mr. Chairman. Finally, my closure. Every day hard work is done by farmers and gardeners for our daily bread. That deserves our appreciation. I look forward to working with the Minister, but also with farmers, gardeners, fishermen and nature organisations for a sustainable agriculture and for a healthy, sustainable and good food system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u213	Thank you. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u214	The Christian Union is making a warm statement for the delta plan biodiversity. I couldn't agree more. The monitoring of the landscape also actually leads to a dwindling existence. We have the Landscape Observatory. Do you also think that this deserves a place in this whole delta approach, and also the Minister's support to see if we can give knowledge of our landscape a place in monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u215	That's a very good question. I remember that not so long ago I myself made a plea for the Landscape Observatory. I can't wait to see what's going on with that right now. I would also like to hear the Minister's response and the possibilities for doing so. I have a warm heart for them, but I just don't know what the state of affairs is right now. I should be briefed on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u216	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u218	Now we're going to listen to 53 minutes Party for the Animals. The first speaker is Mrs Ouwehand. She speaks 30 minutes. Mrs Arissen speaks for 20 minutes and finally Mr Wassenberg speaks for three minutes. Am I saying something that's not right, Mr. Wassenberg? Let me read what it says. Come over here, please. I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u219	Thank you, Mr President. The end of the caterpillar is a butterfly for the rest of the world. I tried it two weeks ago with a Bible quote. That was not such a great success, because I turned out to have confused Paul with Peter. The Christian Union and the SGP also failed in their Bible knowledge. So I thought I'd grab a 600 B.C. Chinese philosopher; that's a little safer. The end of the caterpillar is a butterfly for the rest of the world. It's about human psychology. We find fundamental change scary, but sometimes it has to be. Philosophers, psychologists, anthropologists and historians have always mentioned that. Man has many talents, but saying goodbye to the old trusted is not our most obvious skill. That feels like a threat, and it scares us. More recently, historian and philosopher Philipp Blom says: "The choices we are facing now are simply overwhelming. It is not easy to face the unknown and to give up a system that still seems to function adequately." He also says: "In our society growth is seen as the highest goal. But imagine a company coming to you with the business model that it will only continue to grow because otherwise it would go bankrupt. No one would lend that kind of company money. And yet that's how our societies work. They are not flexible, and if there is a need for change or shrinkage, then there is a immediate disaster." This applies to our economy as a whole and to our agriculture in particular. That comparison with the caterpillar is quite illustrative. That caterpillar just did what he had to do: good food, nothing to worry about. That's what got him far, right up to the stage where he could make the transition to butterfly. But at some point it's just over with that just food, with that just more. Then it's either change, or slow down, or so I imagine to explode apart. That caterpillar doesn't do the last one. It could be that those little caterpillars are never enough wiser than humans. Agriculture has been one of those caterpillars for a while and it's bursting because that change doesn't want to come to butterfly. Industrial agriculture has made the Netherlands the most cattle-tight country in the world. There aren't any more animals on a stick than here. That's gonna cause a hell of a lot of trouble. First of all, this applies to the animals themselves: hundreds of millions a year never come out, never feel grass under their feet, can never pry, scratch, swim, dust baths or steal their own food together. These animals spend their whole lives in a pot-tight stable in their own manure fumes. To give an idea of the toxicity of these fumes: when the ventilation fails, which happened a while ago in a pigsty in Heeswijk, the animals were suffocated in no time because the air in which they live is so terribly toxic. The intensive livestock farming and its huge quantities of manure are also a danger to human health. It is not only annoying that it smells structuralally in the vast perimeter of livestock factories. People get headaches, get coughing, develop respiratory infections and pneumonia. The farmers themselves, by the way. General practitioners are concerned about antibiotic-resistant bacteria and particulate matter that spreads in the air and can make people sick at a great distance. The livestock farming and its manure are also the biggest enemy of the climate and of nature and biodiversity. Our natural areas are deeply acidified. Trees are sick. We're losing all kinds of plants and animals. There are 30% fewer butterflies. And bird chicks can no longer produce a full skeleton due to a lack of lime. "Break bones" were called by scientists at a hearing in the Chamber. And all thanks to ammonia from livestock farming. Our drinking water is polluted. Water companies have been warning for years and are asking for measures, but they have had to close almost half of the groundwater extraction points, especially as a result of manure pollution. Is livestock farming perhaps important for our food supply? No. Animals are not food or food producers. A growing group of people are beginning to see that. Even if you think so, it remains that the production of meat, dairy and eggs is inversely proportional to a fair distribution of food in the world. The livestock sector actually converts precious plant proteins, which we could have fed to humans, into manure. That leaves you with a few hamplacks and chicken legs, but that doesn't allow you to feed as many mouths as if we'd just made these proteins available to people. In other words, the more meat we produce, the less other people have to eat. Mr. Chairman. The intensive livestock farming therefore has a long list of losers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u220	Is the Party for Animals now suggesting that we all have to follow a complete plant-based diet and that that is even better for the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u221	It would be better for the world, but that's not my plea. My plea is that we are committed to a substantial reduction in meat and dairy consumption, especially in the rich West.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... By the way, the Food Centre also argues in favour of this. We eat too much animal protein. I don't. I eat zero. But other people eat so much that it is totally unhealthy, both for the environment and for our own health.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u222	But then your diet is less sustainable than someone who, for example, has 20% animal protein in their diet from pigs fed from residual streams. So you are less sustainable than someone who takes a small percentage of animal protein.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u223	I'd say walk with me for a week, and you can see what I eat. D66 is so proud of those residual flows from the food industry, but the Party for Animals likes to look at the whole chain. Of course, the food industry also uses raw materials that can be noticed in terms of sustainability. Take the huge amount of palm oil that has come into many products, for example to replace rye. It's just in knäckebröd. That wasn't necessary. Knäckebröd is rye, water and a pinch of salt. That's it. Now look at the supermarkets and you can see that there's palm oil in it. Where does palm oil come from? From Indonesia and Malaysia. Valuable rainforest has gone up on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u224	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u225	The climate impact of what we use here in the food industry must, of course, also be looked at from the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u226	Mr De Groot, in conclusion, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u227	So the answer is yes, your diet is less sustainable. Can I add a personal remark to that? Mrs Ouwehand spoke about a citizens' initiative and about the input of D66. A careful employee has checked the contribution of colleague Koşer Kaya from that time. There is absolutely no mention of the issues raised by Mrs Ouwehand. I'd like that to be noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u228	It is recorded for eternity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u229	And we have voted on motions tabled in response to the citizens' initiative. Maybe the co-worker can look it up, too. D66 was indeed for a shrinkage of livestock. Mrs Koşer Kaya has also said: D66 believes that this is a clear sign that the environmental tax must be reflected in the price of meat; it must be fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u230	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u231	I heard you twice, Mr. De Groot. I think this is a good subject for your second term. Then you can correct everything and all your employees can check all voting recommendations and motions for the last ten years. Mrs. Ouwehand, you continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u232	Mr. Chairman. The intensive livestock farming therefore has a long list of losers. Human, animal, nature, climate, water and food security, they all lose. And why is that? Is there a winner who's so terribly important that it's all worth it? That's the sad thing: there isn't one. Farmers, who are stuck in this system, are not keeping up with the ever-increasing scale and competition on the world market. In 50 years, the Netherlands has lost 85% of its farmers. Still 50 farmers a week stop. Nobody wins. This applies to intensive livestock farming, and this also applies to the rest of industrial agriculture, in which poison and monocultures put an end to the last ecosystem that the ammonia blanket had survived. Nobody wins, except for a few big boys who might be leading that race to the bottom. The big boys are hanging in there at the expense of family businesses. These may be the only winners: the big boys, the Rabobank and the meat and dairy bobos. The problems aren't new. The same applies to the attempts to tackle them. In another opinion that was once again asked for by the ESC last year, the ESC writes: "In recent years, a load of reports, analyses, notes and documents have been published that have fully mapped out the sustainability statement." We are not going to do yet another study on the bottlenecks in livestock farming, says the ESC, because they are already there. The sector is causing considerable environmental pressures and risks to human health and animal welfare. "The seriousness of the situation is also widely recognised. In recent years, a multitude of initiatives have been taken to tackle the problems and promote sustainability. Real breakthroughs have not yet led to this." There we have him: breakthroughs are needed, and courage, courage, vision and change. And let us at the Animal Party have the idea that it is best to ask a young, smart, autonomous woman for that. A woman who with open eyes and common sense simply dares to look at the problems that lie ahead. A woman who has the strength and the character to be the director of agriculture in the Netherlands for so long and who is going to go beyond the coalition crap I must say I dare to put in the reform that farmers, animals, nature, environment and climate deserve. Minister Carola Schouten addressed the dossier on which the most urgent and groundbreaking changes are needed, which have the greatest impact on our future. And she did that in the year we celebrate 100 years of passive women's right to vote. We'll do that next week, December 12th. Well, we can tell you that our expectations are high. So we say to the Minister: let yourself be inspired by those women's right fighters, who did not fight easily for the fool, but who have resisted all oppositions and especially oppositions bravely and steadfastly. For they knew deep down: this is what commands justice, this is what needs to change, whether it's easy or not. I owe this to myself, to my daughters, to the future and to society. So, Mr President, it is not easy, but the Minister has the privilege of managing agriculture when agriculture really is at a crossroads. Continuing on the old road would be a recipe for misery, accidents and death against the wall. I'm not giving her that. Change is needed. That looks scary. That raises a lot of resistance, but it's possible. In that light, the marshmallow experiment in the sixties is a nice illustration of how we can put the long term ahead, but not have such a talent for it. In the marshmallow experiment, young children, toddlers, were given a marshmallow. They were told: if you don't eat it right away, you'll get another one later. Of course, most kids couldn't do that. They were left alone in that room with that delicious candy for their snout. They might have lasted 30 seconds or a minute, and that marshmallow was gone anyway. But there were children, so it's not impossible for them to bring it up. They knew to wait 15 minutes and had two. So it's not easy to focus on the long term and we don't have a talent for it, but there are people who can do this. We hope the Minister is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u233	Mr De Groot participated in that experiment at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u234	Yeah, I see it. I see it. I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u235	He wants to tell us something about that, because that wasn't right for him at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u236	I found out where the box of marshmallows was, so it went much faster. I have a question for Mrs Ouwehand. If Mrs Ouwehand can choose tomorrow between fewer animals in livestock farming or participate in a real transition towards a sustainability of the entire Dutch food production we must continue to eat. What does Mrs Ouwehand choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u237	Both, because it has to be both, with fewer animals. If Mr De Groot hasn't read the studies, he'll have to go along with my sustainable diet and read all the reports that the Party for Animals has on the wall. This livestock farming with this meat consumption makes it impossible to sustainably feed the world in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u238	You shouldn't hang reports on the wall. You just have to read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u239	Also.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u240	You gave a wonderful example of those marshmallows. Let me give you an example. If you can choose, what will you do tomorrow, either to reduce the number of animals or to participate in a long-term transition to a truly sustainable agriculture? And then don't say "both," because that wasn't the case in your experiment either. So I repeat the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u241	No, look, this experiment was about whether you're willing to give the long-term priority over short-term gratification: one marshmallow and then you're ready or waiting and then you have two. Less animals is the long-term vision that we are going to take agriculture into. Yes, it is! Mr De Groot doesn't believe it, but then he really will have to do a bit of education. I know he's from industrial agriculture. I understand the change in thinking is still difficult, but it's absolutely necessary...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u242	Fine, you're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u243	...to shrink the livestock. If D66 finds his ideals back, we can do it together. Mr De Groot is already getting tired of it. We're just getting started!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u244	You're gonna challenge him in the hope of getting a few more minutes. Mr. De Groot, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u245	Mrs Ouwehand has missed this opportunity and thus undermines her own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u246	I don't think we understand each other, but maybe we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u247	We have heard Mr Grashoff four times. Shall we add one more time? But then I don't want to hear him again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u248	Only a personal fact, perhaps more in the direction of Mr De Groot than in the direction of Mrs Ouwehand. It is quite clear that the positions of D66 which have so far been adopted on this issue have changed considerably since the participation in this coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u249	No, I do not think this is clear, because you are going to interrupt Mr De Groot when he does not speak. Then Mr De Groot is going to say something again. Yes, Mr De Groot is going to say something, but just as short and pointy as Mr Grashoff. And then we're really moving on, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u250	If there is one more suggestion that we have a completely different story, I will read out Mrs Koşer Kaya's contribution to the citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u251	That's a hell of a threat. We're not gonna let it get that far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u252	I'm actually in favour of that, Mr. Chairman. But you're not gonna let me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u253	No, I understand. Yes, I know exactly what you're for. But you're just gonna go through with your lines and we're gonna run the meter again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u254	That's great. Mr. Chairman. Let me put it positively: we face a challenge. We would like to take the Minister on board the long-term issues that need real common sense and courage. The question then is: would it perhaps be wise to eat less meat, dairy and eggs together? The Planning Office for the Environment thinks so. All climate scientists think so. The UN human rights rapporteur thinks so. Even the favorite university of the Ministry of Agriculture, that of Wageningen, had to admit it in 2010: "Animal proteins are a problem of the supreme order. Experts foresee dramatic consequences for the environment, nature and landscape and food security when we fail to redirect our consumption of animal proteins to a more sustainable, plant-based diet." At the time CDA Minister of Agriculture Verburg was able to do so. She wasn't very excited about it, but she had to admit it. We hope for more enthusiasm from this Minister. The Food Centre also says that we eat too much meat in the Netherlands anyway. For health reasons alone, therefore, the Minister has plenty of room to make real progress. D66 Senator Henriëtte Prast has already shown that if you move the standard, so make the offer standard vegetarian and people who want to eat meat should therefore ask.It's the other way around now you can achieve a lot of results. Is the Minister prepared to pass that on to her ministry? That would be a wonderful signal. Mr. Chairman. The following question: would it perhaps be wise to agree that food is a human right? We've seen the discussions here. Then we are done with these tiring discussions about what is the best way of farming. The choices are easy. You want a small group of people to make a bag of money? Then you say: food is good, the only way is intensive and who can produce most seed potatoes or hammacks has won. That's the story of the VVD: top sport agriculture. That's nice, but there can only be a few people top athletes. Besides, they won't last very long. So only a few people benefit from it. On the other hand, if you say "it's about people having access to a healthy and fully-fledged food package, and that's what we think is fundamental," then you set your agriculture up according to very different values. The follow-up question is, of course, whether that is possible. Can we feed everyone? Yes. Could that be poison and fertilizer-free? Yes. Can nature then recover? Oh, yeah. All we have to do is eat less meat and waste less food. We have the Christian Union and, I believe, a majority of the Chamber really do when it comes to the need to waste less food. Compliments to Mrs Dik-Faber for her initiatives on this point. Why is the other thing so hard? Why can't we admit with each other that this is necessary for future food security and healthy agriculture? What does the Minister choose: human law or merchandise? With this kind of big social change, it's perfectly normal for a few people to be behind. That must be: someone must form the rearguard. But it is a bit crowded there, with both the VVD and the CDA. We hope that the Minister will feel free not to stand in the backguard but simply to lead the way. Next question. Would it be wise to say no to mega-stables? A math is made quickly. A pig baron, which has a professional ban in Germany, was licensed in Buren for 20,000 animals. That's 40 family farms with 500 pigs. Who does the Minister choose? Not choosing is choosing the end of the family farmers. So you say: we do not need agriculture in the Netherlands, just do us agro-industry. Illustrative in this respect was the CDA alderman who this year in Nieuwsuur spoke to a journalist about the political crisis that had arisen in his municipality, Bladel. The Alderman for Health had resigned there because she found the expansion of livestock irresponsible given the health risks for the people living there. The CDA Alderman Environment, who didn't see a problem in anything, was asked what it would look like in Bladel in 25 years' time. Without cans or blush, he said: well, with substantially fewer farms. From the already unimaginable number of 121,000 to 330,000 pigs, from 460,000 to more than 1 million chickens, but substantially fewer farmers. That is the agricultural policy of CDA and its counterparts in a nutshell, the conservative policy that we must get rid of. Would it perhaps be wise to breed and slaughter far fewer animals? We have already recalled: the first citizens' initiative in the history of Dutch parliamentary democracy was about a shrinkage of livestock. And there was enthusiasm about that, but not with all parties in this Chamber. It is good to know that the churches thought it was a good idea at the time, because a shrinkage in livestock and a reduction in meat production and consumption is also simply a question of international solidarity. It is important for the poorest in the world that we moderate our consumption and production. Furthermore, the police think it is a good idea, because these numbers of animals and thus this manure production will never and never be effectively combated. Health experts think it is a good idea, because the risks to public health are irresponsible. Climate and agricultural experts think it's a good idea. The Netherlands must meet the climate targets in agriculture and what good will it do for farmers if we postpone this discussion if the government turns around? Clarity for farmers is a common argument in this house, and I think it is quite right. But then you have to give that clarity. Nature & Environment has already done an exercise and looked at Dutch agriculture and the climate targets for 2030 that are coming towards us. They have calculated and calculated that by 2030 the livestock should be 30% smaller than it is today. The costs and benefits of this are about the same, for example, the Centre for Agriculture and the Environment, because there is a great deal of environmental damage being avoided. Why don't we embrace that proposal? Why are we waiting to give clarity to the farmers, with the risk that at the very last minute climate targets will still have to be imposed on them in rules? I do not think it is wise for the farmers either. The government agreement talks about a warm clean-up of pig farming. Of course, that is a good idea, but we need to know how many pigs are involved and what the shrinkage will be. Is it actually shrinking? Are these rights actually withdrawn from the market? We have already discussed this in the debate on the coal agreement. The Animal Party also wants an analysis, because we are really wondering how it could have gotten to the point that these livestock are obviously too large, even in the eyes of the Cabinet, thanking for the recognition of this, while we have been underruled by the fact that every permit was fully in line with environmental conditions. How can it be that 200 million in taxpayers' money is needed to restore an apparently out of control situation? I would like an analysis and a commitment that the enforcement of the actual number of animals held in relation to the licences will be made clear. The minister said this afternoon: yes, that is to municipalities and provinces. The Animal Party does not consider that sufficient if other institutions point out to us that this is being cheated. How can we control that the number of animal rights is actually not exceeded? More insight, please. Mr. Chairman. Would it perhaps be wise to impose grazing? Yeah, a majority of the House actually thinks so. It was also a super wise plan of D66, SP and GroenLinks: better for the cow, better for nature, better for the climate and even better for the farmer. In the hearing we held last week on biodiversity, we heard that a pilot by the Louis Bolk Institute shows that organic dairy farmers, who are structurally grazing, have lower production, 20% less yield, but also 30% less cost. On balance, therefore, there is a better margin for the farmer. Those seem hopeful prospects. We are therefore disappointed that the cabinet says: we let the sector do it itself. While there's so much profit to be gained from that meadow walk, also for the climate. It would be the crowbar to open the door to land-based agriculture and free run for not only the cows, but also the pigs and chickens in the long run, so that we do not immediately see so many animals in smoke in a barn fire. Mr. Chairman. If the sector fails to meet its targets, we've just heard about D66. We're going to take action. But the sector only assumed 80% of the cows, while the Chamber previously asked for 100% grazing. How does the Minister see that? I would like to tell her that the objections we hear from the sector, that it would not be so easy to feed cows, are rather strange. If we are so proud of agriculture in the Netherlands, but we don't know how to feed cows anymore, what happened to farming craftsmanship? Mr. Chairman. The debate on standards in livestock farming when it comes to animals. Would it perhaps be wise to take the moral objections to livestock farming seriously? On the one hand, the idea that people who stand up for animal welfare would have too little understanding for livestock farmers is a disgrace. People who stand up for animals talk about what happens to animals and that is morally problematic. The problem is that that does not change, namely that it is morally problematic, if it has an economic earning model. Let me explain. If we take goats from the petting zoo, who have just been born, and let them go straight away, what happens in goat farming, people feel: that's not right, that's not right. If we cut off a piglet on the petting zoo, everyone feels: that's not right. If we never walk dogs but leave their entire lives in their own feces, then everyone will also be in resistance. In other words: the moral intuition of people, who stand. That does not change when we say about certain animal species: yes, but that is what we make an economic product of; that must be hamsticks or they must supply milk. That moral intuition is not wiped away and therefore, if we do not address it, the moral ethical side of livestock farming remains an issue, now, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. In dairy farming, in common livestock farming but in part also in the organic sector, calves are removed from their mothers within a day. That's morally problematic. A mammal wants to be able to suckle her own animal, her own young. I have already mentioned it in pigs a few days old without anesthesia the tail is cut off. It's officially forbidden, because we've acknowledged together that you don't actually do that with animals, but the government stands by and looks at it. Yeah, do you think it's weird that people come into the gun against this industry? In goat milking, goats are also removed from the mother immediately and 20% to 66% will not survive. They die of misery. We recently saw that it is seen in the hatchery of chicks that either enter the laying hens or enter the chicken farming, as a whole revolution there is now a system where they get something to eat and drink when they crawl out of the egg. Those are not the steps that respond to the moral intuition that teaches people that chicks should be able to grow up with their mother and, of course, have to eat and drink naturally. Let alone the follow-up steps of those animals' lives. If they're unlucky enough to be a leghen for a meat chick, it's not a party either.They're caught at the end of their short life and shoved into crates. They'll be at great risk of fracture, but they'll end up like that. People feel that this is no way to deal with animals and that will not disappear. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister what she has ambitions for animal welfare. Let us then start with the death rates, a bitter illustration that has a black downside to sending only marginally to animal welfare. This is evident from the high piglets mortality rate. Sows are so bred that they are now throwing more than 30 piggies a year. Almost 14% of these young pigs do not survive, because they are too weak or too sick or because they may starve. What mortality rates in intensive livestock farming does the Minister consider acceptable? And what's she gonna do to make sure that premature mortality is reduced? Why don't we just name it and show it what it's like? The Animal Party has adopted a motion on greater transparency and clarity about the life and death of animals in livestock farming. We have to note that a moral blind spot in some of the people working in this sector is inevitable. But that doesn't mean we should be able to name what's going on with the animals. A growing group of activists are taking action today at abattoirs. Then they'll stand there and the trucks with the pigs in them. They take pictures and put them on the Internet. Let me show you the picture: these are the pigs. They're standing there miserable, with scratches, in that truck. What shocked me was that one of the pig farmers responded to that on the internet and said: yes, but they do that themselves! Those pigs do that themselves... well, I guess. Yeah, ranking fights. Yeah, stress. Yeah, they hurt each other. But those pigs didn't choose to come into the world in an industry that eventually drains them to the abattoir in this way. Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say that the progress must come from daring to name what is happening to the animals. By the way, the back of that truck is marked with smiling pigs sitting in hanging chairs or lying on straw, with the cheerful message 'animal-friendly transport'. While this is the reality of what's happening in those trucks. Of course, there's a lot of tension there. If we cannot identify clearly and purely what is happening to these animals and do not simply admit that this is morally problematic, it remains a matter of clashing between farmers on the one hand and concerned citizens on the other. While it can be solved if we are honest about it and have real ambition to improve animal welfare and significantly reduce the number of animals we use. Mr. Chairman. We also think it wise to simply maintain what has been agreed. We have agreed that the mink breeding will disappear from the Netherlands. That has been a beautiful and important decision, even though it takes the Party for the Animals too long before there really is an end to the breeding of animals for their furs in the Netherlands. But that was the outcome of the parliamentary debate and the decisions here. But what do we see in the meantime? That there are expansions. Illegal expansions. That the animals are dealt with in ways that I should like to say carefully, to make no one angry at this time of day... are not entirely by the rules. How is it that we do not maintain this, even though we have agreed that animal welfare is being monitored and that the sector should stop and not grow? Can the Minister promise that she will make efforts to enforce the rules in livestock farming, on enlargements and on the numbers of animals actually kept? Mr. Chairman. Would it perhaps be wise to protect the basis of our existence? This question relates to biodiversity. Nature has value in itself, but it is also the basis of our existence. It's called "critical natural capital." Not just capital, but "critical." And don't think we can do without our ecosystems. The funny thing is that agriculture can't do that at all. You can't farm on an exhausted, acidified or poisoned soil. And without insects and host plants, we're nowhere. So it's not going well. We're in the sixth extinction wave, so scientists warn us. And that would be the very first person to be caused by man himself. So much for man as a superior species... Beautiful words are not lacking, but beautiful words have never restored an ecosystem. Take that spell about the use of "plant protection products," a nice euphemism for "agricultural poison." They would only be used in the Netherlands if there was really no other way to do it; this is called "integrated plant protection." But the Animal Party dares to doubt it. Glyphosate passes with liters at once, hoppee, the crop, just before harvest. Is that necessary? No, it just makes harvesting a little easier. Mr. Chairman. Action. Abandon the use of agricultural poison and put an end to that enormous ammonia deposition. That means we have to distance ourselves from wishful thinking. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen has a high content of wishful thinking and does not work. The milk quota had to be removed; the sector would regulate itself. We've seen what happened. Manure processing is seen as the excuse for the major problems with the manure surplus in the Netherlands. But dreams in technology have never brought closer to the solution that agriculture is waiting for. Mr. Chairman. It would therefore be wise to set the sector organisations at a greater distance than they have been up to now. We saw the spokesperson of LTO, who spoke out and was glad that "their own ministry" was back. But that's not the way things are, of course. It is not the case that farmers should not be represented in policy. This must be done, but we have seen in recent years that these sector organisations do not speak for the interests of individual farmers at all. It was the sector organisations that wanted to stop production restrictions in dairy farming at all costs, after which a phosphate rights system had to be introduced at the last minute and all kinds of cows had to be sent to slaughter early. Most farmers could not agree at all with that policy that LTO and the NZO had managed on their behalf here in The Hague. How does the Minister reflect that this sector is divided and that the interests of individual farmers are not served by the talk of LTO, the NZO and the Producer Organisation Pork Farming? Mr. Chairman. I call on the Minister to use her common sense and to stand firm against the resistance that will arise if she actually makes the choices that agriculture is about to make. We warn her of miscarriages, so parties that do say that things need to change, but are not really ready to take the radical steps that are needed. I ask the Minister to use the long-term perspective. The Animal Party would like it best and I sometimes dream of it, but the livestock sector is not 50% smaller tomorrow. We have to take our time, but we have to. We need to move towards an agriculture in which farmers can work in a way that they themselves find more pleasant, because the current intensive system makes no one happy. It needs to be smaller, more plant-based, more sustainable, without poison, without fertilizer and without large-scale exploitation of defenseless animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u255	Perfect at 30 minutes. We're going to listen to Mrs. Arissen now. She has 15 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u256	Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, a huge amount of natural space has disappeared: for agricultural land, for urban expansion and for infrastructure. With the arrival of the new Nature Protection Act, the government earlier this year threw nature management, nature conservation and the very pointless hobby hunt over the fence of the provinces. They then chose icon species, preferably all pet animals, and decided to protect these species in certain parts of the province and not in other parts of the province. The protection also stops at the provincial borders, because, that's the idea, provinces can manage their own gardens. We have completely lost control of our natural areas at a rich level. Last week in the Progress Report Nature was praised for how good provinces are doing and how well they are doing with the creation of new nature. Ecologists and biologists have a completely different opinion. They're ringing the bell. Mr. Chairman. Nature and biodiversity are under severe pressure in the Netherlands. We are seriously lagging behind Europe and the global average in the field of nature conservation. In the Netherlands, the loss of original nature's surface and quality has been significantly greater than the average in Europe or the world, for example, the Compensate for the Environment. A recently published German study for which insects from 63 German nature reserves were collected between 1989 and 2016 shows that in nature areas that are in all respects well comparable to nature reserves in the Netherlands, no less than 76% of the insect population has decreased in 27 years. The same trend is shown by the meadow birds, which are also seriously threatened in the Netherlands. But also the butterfly stand, becoming a symbol of change in our biodiversity, shows a decline of 35% in 25 years. My colleague has already addressed the impact of agriculture in detail. I would like to add the impact of the fragmentation of nature and the deterioration in nature quality. The wild bee is seriously threatened in the Netherlands. Here there are about 360 species of wild bees. About half of them are on the red list. These are bee species that are highly threatened or very rare. In July this year, biologist Paul Ehrlich had an alarming message in the publication of his scientific research: "The populations of a large number of species are shrinking so seriously that there is a massive wave of species that are dying out. The massive extinction of animals is caused by man and thereby also affects the foundations of human civilization." Jelle Reumer, professor of paleontology of the vertebrate animals of Utrecht University, answers the question: what causes this sixth extinction wave? He says, "Simple, man, period. That's a fact." How come we in the Netherlands are so blind to what is going on, how important nature is to us and how much value nature has, especially its intrinsic value? The intrinsic value relates to the welfare of plants and animals and not to the welfare of people. In the new Nature Protection Act, a half-hearted attempt has been made to legally anchor the intrinsic value of nature. And as expected: it turns out to be an empty letter a year after introduction. 'Cause what's happening? It focuses on the economic value of nature. This would also give the advocates of unbridled economic growth a reason to protect the remaining nature, as is argued. The thesis is: we tried, but we cannot stand apart from nature; our economy revolves around nature, the raw materials that we extract from it and which are finite. The sudden realization that nature has value for man makes it go to the other side, wrong side. This new vision looks at how nature contributes to our wealth in the narrow sense, our economic growth. The natural capital is called that. In a world where costs and benefits are at stake, it is high time nature got an accountant, the natural economists put it. Calculation models are released and business cases formulated. The ultimate bookkeeping mentality is unleashed on our nature. A pragmatic approach is expected from nature organisations. Nature as an amusement park. Nature as a cheap solution to our recycling problems in the chemical industry. And something that might be nice for the Sunday afternoon to be able to recreate a bit when our stone environment suffocates us. But then come by car: there are plenty of parking spaces, a luxurious restaurant and we prefer to lay a few more roads through it. For example, the centuries-old forest at Amelisweerd is getting smaller and because of the widening of the A27 there is nothing left of the small forest that is left. Natural philosopher Matthijs Schouten rightly remarked in a broadcast of Opposite Light: "If you start thinking about ecosystem services.. what does nature gain in economic value? If so, the value of a piece of nature soon does not outweigh the economic value of a piece of asphalt. But thinking in economic value is a tube vision, a narrowed way of looking at nature. Thinking from the ecosystem you can easily say 'well, that piece of nature can disappear, because that is not so productive'. There we find ourselves on a dangerous slope." Nature protection is not something that should be left to the market, to the business community. Then you get the situation that the remodeling of the totally empty and closed Marker Wadden must become a paradise for recreational day-trips and is co-financed by ING and the Sports Fishing Association Netherlands, or that important nature reserves and the silence should depart from the expansion of Lelystad Airport. Earth Overshoot Day will fall in July next year. In July 2018, we have used up what the earth can spare in just seven months. For the rest of the year, we live on credit. We're in deep red. Man is the only species that takes more than the Earth can handle in its environment and far beyond and which is completely exhausted and eventually destroyed. The Animal Party believes that we should finally connect nature reserves, precisely because nature and nature conservation are invaluable to all of us: for flora, for fauna and also for man. The pessimists say: we have no use for those idealists, we have to be realistic. But nature is irreplaceable and if the value of nature were to be passed on in a realistic, fair way, there would be no company that exploits the earth and its raw materials, making more profit. Idealism, according to the Animal Party, is the new realism. There's no other way. Then the hunt. About 2 million defenceless animals are still being shot every year into the eternal hunting grounds and the same amount of animals are being shot at. Without any use or necessity, just for the pleasure of the hunter. With the entry into force of the new Nature Protection Act, the provinces are fully competent with regard to hunting. They deal with the composition of the fauna management units, the approval of the fauna management plans, the issue of hunting permits, the assessment of so-called damage and, last but not least, the monitoring of the five species that are freely hunted: hare, pheasant, wild duck, rabbit and wood pigeon. This despite the fact that more than 80% of the Dutch population opposes the killing of animals as a hobby and the initiative Stop de Hobby hunting has been dealt with in several Provincial States. In the meantime, it becomes clear that the promised civil society organisations are not heard as a minority vote in the fauna management units and that they do not even want to join in a single province, such as North Holland, because the hunters' urge to hunt is too great and therefore should simply stand up against the law and against the promise of the former Secretary of State Van Dam in the fauna management unit without civil society organisations as a club of pleasure hunters. Nor is there even a start being made on setting a hunting stop when wild duck and rabbit species are freely huntable and suffer from a virus that threatens and brings populations to a critical level. "Hunting accidents" are dismissed as incidents and hunters get away with it: shooting a sea eagle out of the sky, hunting in the breeding season, hunting in the sucking and carrying time with horrific images of a hunter cutting unborn roecals out of the mother's womb, illegal hunting of birds of prey, illegal shooting of woodsnips and the shooting off of grey geese. The Animal Party believes that no hobby can justify the suffering of another, but hunters seem to get away with it. Ending the hobby hunt doesn't cost us anything, but means their lives to the animals involved. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, the killing of animals without purpose or necessity is prohibited as soon as possible. Then the puppy business. In recent months, the investigative journalists of Follow the Money have published a number of shocking articles describing how traders fraudulently sell animals from Eastern Europe to Dutch people. Unfortunately, this still exists on a large scale and constitutes a lucrative trade. Former Secretary of State Van Dam has announced to come up with measures to counter malicious puppy trade. It is high time these measures were put into practice, and I therefore ask the Minister whether she can achieve this in the short term. Then the breeding. Cats without fur, without tail or with extremely short legs. The breeding of designer cats is completely in, for example the bambino sphynx. That's very dierron friendly, because it increases the risk of disability, decreased perception and sunburn. It is unacceptable for us to deform an animal so that it does meet our wishes and to modify a cat until it still feels like a cat, but can no longer be a cat. There are also examples of other breeding animals in abundance. The breeding of pet animals with a high risk of hereditary diseases is prohibited, but what is being done about it? There are voluntary agreements with the breeders themselves to phase out the hereditary problems, the so-called "Fairfok" programme, and agreements are made with, for example, breed associations that are members of the Board of Directors. But this puts breeders who are not members of a breed association and who make money from trading in popular breeds, not strobe in the way. Where there is animal suffering, non-binding agreements are simply not enough. The government must act hard against this form of mutilation. A label is nice for our consciences, but that doesn't make an animal immune to suffering. Mr. Chairman. No one is waiting for an impulse purchase of pets. The problem is that the person who buys a pet only realizes it afterwards. Too often this leads to situations where an animal ends up in the asylums that are already bulging. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, it will not benefit anyone. More should therefore be done to prevent these impulse purchases. This is also the commitment already made by former Secretary of State Verdaas in 2012. Unfortunately, we have to conclude that impulse purchases are still far too common. The Animal Party would like the current Minister to come up with additional measures to counter impulse purchases. Finally, Mr President. The protection of animals in the Netherlands can do so much better. Let us begin by including the basic rights for animals in the Constitution. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u257	It was almost impossible to keep track of a fact check with Mrs Ouwehand, so much nonsense in a minute, also with Mrs Arissen. I've been digging up a few anyway. Did Mrs Arissen say that the share of nature in the Netherlands is decreasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u258	It is true that biodiversity is 15% of what it was originally. According to the Compensate for the Environment, nature and the quality of nature have indeed decreased dramatically.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u259	In number of square meters, that theorem doesn't add up. Nature hasn't been taken away. It is precisely the agricultural area that has fallen by 6%. The red areas, read residential sites and construction sites, have increased by 5%. Forest and nature sites have also increased in the Netherlands. That's just a fact check. Next, Mr. Chairman. Are tower falcons peasant birds? The answer is yes. The buzzard, on the other hand, is not a farm bird. Does Mrs Arissen know that buzzards are not only a food competitor of tower falcons, but also kill the boy of the tower falcon? Could you reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u260	Do I have to reflect on how nature works?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u261	Well, it would be very good if the Party for Animals did. But these are just facts. The Animal Party says biodiversity, the number of farmland birds is decreasing. But then take it in width. What I'm trying to tell you is that the buzzard isn't included, while the other peasant birds eat as well. Then you can look very questionable, but you just have to read your pieces carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u262	Mr Geurts has just heard from my colleague, Mrs Ouwehand, a whole paper on how agriculture has contributed to the free fall of pasture birds. I think that should be clear enough for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u263	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Wassenberg. He has seven minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u264	Mr President, in the exchange, I can make a personal statement. If Mr Geurts thinks I'm saying 1,000 bullshit words a minute, he's just gonna have to put an interruption on me. What is true is that we slaughter 1,000 animals per minute in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u265	Bright, but you're one fraction, so I don't think Mr. Geurts is so crazy. Mr. Geurts can answer for another two seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u266	Mr President, that is already over when I say 'President', which is common practice here. It's just factually incorrect. I had one more interruption and I chose to use it in the further argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u267	Very good. We are going to listen to Mr Wassenberg. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u268	Well, chairman, the first 45 minutes have flown, don't you think? Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand began her speech with an Eastern thinker of 600 BC. I'm starting less philosophically. I'll start with half a billion kilos of fish. There's got to be a difference. Half a billion kilos of fish, that's how many fish we catch every year according to CBS. That is an incredible amount of fish and yet there is little or no attention for the welfare of these fish, while fish, like humans and mammals, know fear, pain and stress. There is now broad scientific consensus on this. A lot of this knowledge about fear, pain and stress in fish comes from our own Wageningen University. Fishcount already described in 2010 the death struggle that fish undergoes. They're picked up from big depths, their bladder snaps by decompression, and they're crushed to death. And the fish that survive the ride will have a long agony on board until they end up choking in the air or being stripped alive. So many fish undergo the slaughter alive and consciously. The coalition agreement states: "The Netherlands also strives internationally with other leaders to improve animal welfare." That is what the fisheries measures are about. My question to the Minister is: how will the Netherlands strive to improve the well-being of fish? Mr. Chairman. At present, plaice on board only one ship is intoxicated before slaughter. How does the Minister feel about that? What is she going to do to change that? Is it prepared to carry out more research into the methods of catching and killing pelagic species, such as mackerel and herring? Mr. Chairman. I also have a question about the living cooking of lobsters and crabs. Last year, Commissioner Andriukaitis for Health and Food Safety said that cooking crustaceans alive and placing marine shellfish in freshwater is painful and causes stress. There must be an end to the barbaric killing of these animals. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. What steps is she going to take to prevent the living cooking of lobsters and crabs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u269	My question concerns the previous point: fisheries. I hear a very passionate speech from Mr Wassenberg. But how can he be in favour of the landing obligation? And why doesn't the Animal Party support a whole range of parties in this Chamber who want to get rid of that landing obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u270	We must make sure that we have less by-catch. With that landing obligation, those fish are not thrown overboard. That's what we've been investigating. The vast majority, more than three quarters, will not survive. So it's just dead fish being thrown overboard. At least with that landing obligation, you still have some idea of what's being caught up. You have an idea about the bycatch. It's way too big.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u271	Indeed, what Mr Wassenberg is right to say is that we need to move towards less bycatch. But then the Party for Animals again blocks all the innovative developments that exist in the fisheries sector. So your story doesn't add up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u272	There are hardly any innovative developments. For example, pulse trawling is also a soil-moving technique. I assume that's what Mrs Lodder's referring to. I'll talk about that in a minute. It also destroys the sea floor. I just happen to want to talk about that now, so you can turn the clock back on, Mr. President. I'm going to talk about how fish are caught. That beam trawling is doing a lot of damage. Intensive fishing is an unimaginable predatory activity in the sea. Boomkotters with their heavy tow chain literally tear soil life to pieces when catching flatfish, such as tongue, scar and plaice. It's like cutting down an entire forest in one stone to catch the deer alive in there. The Correspondent described what happens to a fish: "What if you are a plaice? You scramble a little above the sandy bottom (...) Suddenly you get spooked by what looks like a bomb carpet, caused by heavy chains hitting the bottom. You jump up terrifiedly, but then a big beam with a just below you slides along. You're trapped. (...) Tired you end up behind the net, where you get caught among hundreds of other scholastics (...) Until the net is picked up. Now hundreds of kilos of plaice and by-catch are pressing on you." I have a few questions for the Minister. Does it share the view that beam trawling, where towed nets are drawn over the bottom and the bottom is ploughed with heavy chains, is having a devastating effect on the bottom life in the sea? And what's her answer to that? Why do we still allow this primitive and devastating way of fishing? Mr. Chairman. According to the World Nature Fund and the CBS, the seabed is still not recovering, even though the beam trawl is on its way back. According to the Compentium for the Environment, the bottom fauna, both in the subsurface and on the bottom, is also captured, killed or dispersed in pulse fishing. Pulse fishing is therefore still damaging the seabed and vulnerable species. Does the Minister share the view that pulse fishing harms the seabed and is therefore not a good alternative to beam trawling? Mr. Chairman. For the last three minutes, I'm going to talk about experimental animals. In just over seven years it will be 2025 and the Netherlands will have to be the world leader in the field of animal-free research. This ambition was expressed in 2015 by the then cabinet. Does the Minister support this ambition? Because then something must be done. With good intentions alone, you won't make it. Last September we held a hearing on animal-free research in the Committee on Economic Affairs. In it, we spoke with scientists and interest groups. And if there was one common thread to point out in the contributions of all those scientists and NGOs, then there was an urgent need for an active role of the government. Not a compelling driving role, but a directing role. Scientists themselves know what is useful and necessary, but the government really needs to coordinate. Then you have to think of a role in which knowledge is bundled and made available. Mr. Chairman. I've been on the road myself. I have made work visits to knowledge institutes and labs, have spoken to many researchers, have seen a lot of good initiatives and have found a lot of support to put an end to animal use. When I studied biology myself, it was very different. Then scientists who question animal use were white ravens in the research world. Luckily, they haven't been rarity for a long time. Most scientists see the limitations of animal use, not to mention the many animal suffering. I'll give you a recent example. Recently, the Minister of Health sent the Council of Health and Society's opinion on the high price of medicines to the Chamber. One of the main reasons for this high price is that the animal models used are often inadequate. For example, 99.6% of animal experiments carried out on Alzheimer's disease lead to nothing. So that means that 0.4% was effective: incredibly little. So we need to take steps to develop better model systems than animal testing. That is what we owe to patients, that we owe them to society, that is what we owe to the hundreds of thousands of laboratory animals we use every year. We need to get rid of animal testing. This central management role, which can give a test-free science a strong boost, can be complemented by a national knowledge platform focused on experimental animal-free innovations. I am not talking about a new institute in a beautiful building, not about a new bureaucratic institution, but about a virtual knowledge centre that brings together knowledge about biological systems, about laboratory research methods, about medical knowledge, about ICT and technical studies, and encourages cooperation between pioneers in various areas of knowledge. A national knowledge platform directs, brings together, connects, coordinates, is a driver. It stimulates the development and implementation of animal-free research methods and can become a pillar of the government's declared ambition to make the Netherlands the world leader in the field of animal-free research in 2025. That objective fully supports the Animal Party. And the amendment I have tabled gives that objective hands and feet. And I've got eight seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u273	Do you want to do something with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u274	No, I'm giving them to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u275	I'll give it to charity. We are going to listen to Mr Bishop, the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. He is the representative of the Political Reformed Party and has eight minutes speaking time and eight seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u276	And add eight seconds. Thank you, thank you. Deep gratitude fills my heart. Mr. Chairman. I'm glad there's another Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, with his own ministry. The SGP has argued for it for a long time, but the Ministry is there and so is the Minister. We look forward to a warm cooperation, and we are bound to go on the road together. The declaration of sustainability, the economic importance and the far-reaching dossiers call for such a ministry. So there's a lot of work to be done. Farmers' confidence in the government has fallen to the minimum. Dairy farms feel manned by inimitable phosphate regulation, poultry farms saw their future crumbled by the fipronil affair. The government still leaves them to their fate. Why, for example, is there so little cooperation to dispose of manure from their farms? Good-willed farmers are screwed on, while cheating colleagues have been able to do their thing for a long time. A lot of companies run red numbers. Fishermen fear the landing obligation and the consequences of the Brexit. I wish the Minister much wisdom to regain the confidence of these entrepreneurs in the government. I would like to address four points: the sustainability of agriculture, the Phosphate Act, the Dutch Food and War Authority, the NVWA, and the fisheries. Firstly, the sustainability of agriculture. Nature in agricultural areas is under pressure. For example, the number of farmland birds has decreased by more than a third over the last 30 years. But the farmers aren't sitting still either. Many adapt the mowing policy and lay woodwalls. But we are far from there, if only because the foxes are free and unthreatened. We can put the killings that are causing foxes on the farmer's account, but then we are going a little too short. A fox and a buzzard are very similar in that respect. The SGP wants sustainability with the farmer. The farmers want to, but they can't. They don't have the financial resources; the company doesn't allow it. Citizens want to, but they don't pay. Environmental bobos call out, but have nothing of their own, at least no money. They do have ideas. I would like to mention a few aspects of the sustainability of agriculture. First of all, the European agricultural policy. Due to mandatory greening for everyone, the bar is low. Why not a basic payment with a top for serious greening measures, such as woodwalls? The cabinet wants to work on a fair price. That's very good. Doesn't that fit in with some sort of agricultural agreement, so that the whole chain joins in? That seems a bit instrumental, but it can very well help to get all those involved on the same track. In addition, the SGP calls for more space and budget for innovation. I would like to mention two points. There is less subsidy in the budget for the sustainability of livestock farming. How does the Minister prevent the deployment of sustainable barn systems from stagnating? After all, there is no innovation without practical research. The second point is: is the Minister going to provide the data requested by the Branches Organisation Akkerbouw for the purpose of cooperating on crop research, so that they can set up their organisation and work with it, so that arable farming can also innovate? Sometimes regulation hinders innovation. Food Valley writes that rules on particulate matter and ammonia are too one-dimensional. Many techniques remain on the shelf because emissions need to be accurately determined to the decimal place. That's what kills innovation. Would the cabinet like to look for experimental space and take these experiences into account in the process of the introduction of the Environmental Act? Fertiliser policy also deserves innovation. Recently ICTs and manure experts on the Dairy Campus struggled to find the best solution for less nutrient leaching. The winning team came up with area cooperatives and targeted fertilization. It was called "MaxiMi." It works with local measurements, use of soil, weather and circular display data, and an important role for ICT. Steering on water quality puts manure fraudsters in checkmate and gives room for healthy farmers' understanding, something that always appeals to me as a farmer's son. This idea is therefore in line with the commitment of the SGP. Will the Minister take up this point? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the peat meadows in this area, which is to make agriculture more sustainable. Due to peat degradation, the soil drops, water quality deteriorates and CO enters the air. Large-scale underwater drainage and adjusted level management are counteracting this. This costs money, but converted into about €10 per avoided tonne of CO. It's cheaper than windmills. Does the government want to co-finance this, for example by making money available from resources for nature and water quality and regional bottlenecks? Secondly, the Phosphate Act. That's a big bone. The future of many dairy farms is at stake. I'd like to ask four cases. First of all, make sure that companies that received a huge tax in 2017 have not yet passed a judgment on their individual case. That's my first request. Second. From 2018 onwards, increase phosphate space, broaden the bottleneck regime, reduce the discount and rights rental without skimming. Take the 3 million kilos reduction of the feed track to 2018. Use some remaining space in the category "other sectors." Do not include phosphate exports to low phosphate countries for the phosphate ceiling. And make a swallowtail with the 200 million euros to clean up pig farms. I come to the third point on phosphate matters. Start-ups only threaten to be considered a bottleneck if they delivered milk on 2 July 2015. Several starters made all kinds of expensive investments, but were not finished on 2 July and did not deliver any milk yet. The question is: is it reasonable to keep those investors, those start-ups out of the scheme? As far as we're concerned, the answer is no. Hence the question to the Minister as to what opportunities it sees to mean something in this regard. The final point of the Phosphate Act is: allow the depreciation of phosphate rights and for stopping companies also the transfer of the proceeds of phosphate rights to the reinvestment reserve. I am sure you will have to get involved with your finance colleague, but that seems to me to be a fantastic challenge. I'm coming to NVWA. What would we do without the awake Dutch Food and War Authority? Just look at the problem of manure fraud. Entrepreneurs tell us, however, that the NVWA does not give at home if they report suspicious transports. Inspectors weren't there. And it didn't have enough priority. That's not how it works. Because of austerity rounds, the supervisor's been retiring. Even after the government agreement, the NVWA budget for 2019 barely exceeds the 2017 budget. More is needed to set up a really good supervisory body. Can more inspectors be deployed to detect manure fraudsters? Will the Minister, as advised by the recent report that has been in the drawer for a while, at least use an expert group from the sector to detect suspicious sample results? The government agreement states that the fees for the transport sector will be reduced. Why not the same line for the food chain? Mr President, with regard to fisheries, I had another point, but I see that my time has passed. I would like to endorse the comments that have been made about developments and innovations in the fisheries sector, as well as the questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-06-tweedekamer-10.u277	Thank you very much. So much for the first term of office. Tomorrow at 6:45 p.m., you can all listen to the Minister's answers. I suppose that debate will be over in 15 minutes, or perhaps a little more. I thank the Minister for her presence.
