ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. Before we begin, I'd like to agree on the number of interruptions. I suggest we allow two interruptions. Speaking time is three minutes. I give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thought we were going to speak for an almost empty room, but in addition to Mrs De Vries, Mr Omtzigt is also here. We're pretty complete in that respect. Mr Omtzigt pointed out that there were a lot of people in the public gallery. When I look at the public gallery I already had it written down this time I see older people, young people and especially children. To all of us, I say that today's debate affects the pension of young and old. My party, 50PLUS, wants a good pension for now and a good pension for our children and grandchildren. That is why 50PLUS has requested this debate. This technical debate is about the difference in methodology and level of the so-called UFR for pension funds and insurers. Just for the people at home and in the gallery: the UFR is the Ultimate Forward Rate, a calculation rate for the very long term, 20 to 60 years. This will determine whether pension funds and insurers will have sufficient capital in the distant future to meet their pension obligations. The reason for the debate is the proposal by the European Insurance and Pension Authority EIOPA to adapt the calculation rate for insurers to the development of market interest rates. The UFR was introduced in 2012 and was the same for both pension funds and insurers, i.e. 4.2%. In 2015, the UFR was adjusted only for pension funds and the UFR was made variable with a moving average over a period of ten years. Where are we now with regard to the UFR for insurers and funds? What is and becomes the difference in the height and methodology of the UFR? The future pension liabilities of funds are calculated on the basis of the risk-free interest rate, the so-called interest term structure (rts) of DNB. A low risk-free interest rate followed by the market was chosen at the time, as the Pension Act requires a higher pension security of 97.5%. This interest rate is an accounting rate, not a real interest rate and therefore does not change the amount of pension liabilities. With that interest, therefore, only the present accounting value varies, but not the size of the liabilities themselves. For example, if interest rates increase, only the present value of the liability decreases. The scope of the obligation remains the same. The variable UFR for funds has already fallen from 4.2% to 2.9% in two years and, according to the Minister's letter in 2018, goes to 2.3%. According to De Nederlandsche Bank, the UFR can go down even further, so we know since Tuesday, down to less than 2%. Moreover, the UFR for funds will eventually reach the level of RTS which is already below 2%. The result of this system is that the UFR for pension funds has completely evaporated, has disappeared if the RTS will remain at its current level in the remaining period. The new UFR for insurers was and will continue to be a fixed UFR in small steps of up to 0.15% from fixed 4.2% to fixed 3,65% in 2021, notwithstanding the situation for funds. However, insurance companies offer an even higher pension security of 99.5%. While insurers must therefore provide higher pension security and therefore have a strict obligation, they may use a higher UFR than the funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u3	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Pension funds have a softer obligation because they have to shorten if the coverage is too low. In fact, they should therefore have a higher UFR. We have had a wide-ranging debate in the First Chamber on the UFR and the difference between the funds and the insurers...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u5	You really need to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u6	Yes, Mr. Chairman. We ask the Minister once again to explain why he is not prepared to conduct an independent actuarial investigation by a renowned agency. I await the Minister's reply on this, but consider tabling a motion on it in the second period if the answer is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr. Chairman. The differences in interest rates between pension funds and insurers are reduced by the proposed reduction in the UFR. The interest rate is getting evener. So Dutch pension funds are not affected by the measure we are talking about today, but two other threats could lead to more European influence on Dutch pension funds in the future. Firstly, this is a new pension system. Is there a risk, I would ask the government, that any new system should be designed in such a way that there is no pension funds as we know them now, because it has too few solidarity features? Has a European legal test been carried out on this at the moment? That is very important, because if pension funds are characterised as insurers, they might even be able to use the UFR, but we would lose our entire system and become insurance. I am asking this question because it is one of the most important transitional questions for a possible new system. I can even imagine that there would be no direct answer, but I would like to know how we're going to find out. Secondly, we had a round table yesterday about the Brexit. If Britain disappears, that means that our biggest supporter of EU pension rules will leave. Then we are actually the only country in the Union with a substantial number of pension funds and substantial money in them. How are we going to make sure we have new supporters? We will soon be the only country to which the new IORP Directive applies. Back to this debate. The reduction in the calculation rate for insurers, is it at the right time? There is also a change to Solvency II. It is expected in 2020. Insurers and previously the European Parliament have already proposed that the adjustment of the interest rate should be seen in conjunction with the amendment of Solvency II. What does the government think about that? Then I come, of course, to the ECB. Postponement of adaptation has another advantage. Maybe in this case the hawks will have the opportunity to exercise their influence within the ECB's Governing Council. Because it's restless. It leaks to all customers in the Governing Council. You know, when a government leaks out of the Governing Council, there's a lot of disagreement. Yesterday, the CPB also announced that normalization, and that is what the hawks are calling for, of monetary policy, of cutting the 80 and 60 billion-a-month buy-back programme, is beneficial for the Dutch financial institutions: insurers, banks and pension funds, and ultimately also for the Netherlands. How can we ensure that standardisation takes place as soon as possible? If this normalization is taking place, we do not need to adapt the UFR. Finally, a bonus question for the Minister of Finance, who also has one side function. Germany has now indicated that it would like a German to succeed Draghi. Well, his term doesn't end for another two and a half years. But a Northern ECB president, does the minister think that's a good idea? Does he want to tell you publicly if that's a good idea? I like the smile I see on his face.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. There is little interest in this 30-member debate. I would appreciate it if next time the people who have provided the required 30 Members with this 30-member debate would also be present at the debate. I don't think 50PLUS and the CDA together have 30 members. It's a shame the others aren't here. As far as we are concerned, the debate is mainly about insurers. Well, we've looked into that, too. We are also looking, in particular, at the insured persons and at the way in which the obligations can be met in the future. Insurers should not count themselves richer in that respect than they are. In this sense, we welcome the change in the UFR. I do have a number of questions about this, like Mr Omtzigt of the CDA. Of course, there are more issues in Solvency II, the regulatory framework for insurers, than just the UFR, such as a long-term guarantee package. This will not be evaluated until 2020. We would find it logical if that were to be brought forward. I understand that this is complicated in the light of the directive, but I would like to have a reflection from the Minister on that. Then there is the impact of this measure on the solvency and solvency rates applicable to insurers. Are we sufficiently aware of the risks and the consequences of this adjustment of the UFR for insurers? Does the Minister also have the idea that this will lead to more consolidation or consolidation? The UFR is of course reduced in steps. Will capital markets not immediately demand that they comply with the new UFR? My last question is this. Solvency may mean, for a number of insurers, that they need to raise more capital. What solution does the Minister see for this? What could be the impact on, for example, health insurers who are not allowed to pay profits, given the law currently in the Upper Chamber? DNB has also said a number of important things about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u9	I see that the rulers need a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr. Chairman. I thank the honourable Members for their questions. Mr Van Rooijen actually had no questions, except one at the end of his speech. He argued that he was not convinced of the logic behind the differences in the UFR for insurers and for pension funds. I have often had the opportunity to have this debate with him in his capacity as a senator, so in an earlier political life. He knows the arguments and I think he shares them to some extent. They are different products and there is a different supervisory framework for this reason. There are other opportunities for insurers and pension funds to deal with risks, in line with their commitments. There is also a governance issue: who is talking about it? The difference between the method for insurers at European level and that for pension funds in the Netherlands, under the authority of De Nederlandsche Bank. We have written this discussion out completely, with all the arguments, in a letter of thirteen pages. I don't think I need to repeat all that. At the end of his speech, Mr Van Rooijen raised the question of whether I am prepared to have expedited independent research carried out on the UFR for pension funds. My answer is and remains that I am not prepared to do so at the moment. We have a permanent system with the independent UFR Commission. It advises on the UFR to be established. The most recent opinion of the UFR Commission is to opt for a UFR that takes up-to-date market information on the basis of 20-year forward rates and uses a ten-year average for stability to ensure that shocks are removed. That is still a good and up-to-date advice. As far as the cabinet is concerned, there is no reason to revise that interim. As usual in the systematics, in a few years' time, in 2019, the Commission's Parameters will look at the UFR again. I attach great importance to this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u11	I thank the Minister for the answer. I am aware that the UFR Commission will look again at the system in due course. I have asked for an investigation by a renowned actuarial agency, preferably internationally and certainly independently, so certainly not by our Commission UFR. This study should examine what the differences between insurers and funds are based on for the UFR. That was the thrust of my speech and the request I made in the Senate and repeated here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u12	Then there really is a policy view underneath. Mr Van Rooijen questioned the difference in treatment, method and outcome for UFRs for pension funds on the one hand and insurers on the other. We really disagree on that. That difference has to be made, given the difference in type of product, liabilities and possibilities for pension funds or insurers to adjust. That's a really different world. I'm sorry to say this. Of course, it is attractive to say when the calculation rate for insurers is higher than that for pension funds: shouldn't we actually have to take the calculation rate for insurers? We really need to beware of opportunism, let me say this very clearly, because then I would say that we should equalize the whole supervisory framework and all capital requirements. For pension funds, this would really be detrimental. The Netherlands Bank has recently calculated this. I do not hear Mr Van Rooijen say that either, and I understand that very well. That's why I'm warning you about cherrypicking. They are different sectors, different products and different obligations and there follows a different forward rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u13	I do object to the words 'opportunism' and 'cherrypicking'. I would like to draw your attention to two points. In 2012, the UFR was introduced for both sectors: fixed 4.2%. Three years later, at the request of this Chamber, the UFR was made variable for the funds only. As a result, the UFR is 4.2 for insurers and the Minister states in the letter that the UFR is 2.9 for pension funds and 2.3 next year. Next year, therefore, the UFR will be half lower for the funds than for the insurers. Isn't that a huge difference that cannot be explained by the difference between the methods? In fact, if interest rates remain the same, the UFR will evaporate completely for pension funds at the end of the ten-year period, as this will result in risk-free interest rates, while the UFR will still be 3.65 for insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u14	Mr Van Rooijen concentrates on the difference and thinks that this difference is unjustified and undesirable, especially if it were to get bigger. For me, that is not a good indication of the answer to the question of whether we have the right system. For both types of services or, if you like, products, methods have been developed that make the best possible combination of current market information, insofar as it is available to hold at a given time that of course is on... and the type of product we are dealing with. In addition, you want to avoid shocks. You want a system that also creates stability and fits as closely as possible with developments and market information, without compromising stability and creating shocks. Given the different characteristics of the services provided, this has been done for both sectors. This leads to different outcomes, but I say again that this is not an indication for me that something is wrong there. That is the big difference with Mr Van Rooijen's approach. He says, "They differ; that cannot be right; intervene." I do not agree with that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u15	The second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u16	Yes, chairman, an addition. The UFR was created because there was not enough market information after 20 years. For this reason, the fixed UFR has been introduced for both sectors. Three years later, while market information for long-term interest rates is the same for both sectors, because there is only one long-term interest rate for pension funds that is said to be different for the very long-term. So we make two, one for the funds. I don't understand any of that. There's something else I don't understand and the Minister doesn't agree with. Insurance companies do not have a hard liability and pension funds, because they have to and should cut short. This means that they should actually have a higher UFR than the insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u17	It is up to you, Mr President, but then I would simply have to recite the whole letter, because it lists all the arguments. The differences between the product types are very extensive. A pension fund is really something other than an insurance company. The liabilities arising from this are really different for pension funds than for insurers, who, for example, take out income insurance or pension insurance with guaranteed results and returns. The possibilities for acting on them are also very different for insurers and pension funds. And so on and so on; that's all different. I will not repeat terminology, but we have to be very careful with just the part that suits us at the moment, saying that the regime should apply to one another. We don't think that's wise. Mrs De Vries welcomes the change in the UFR. She asked about the coherence of the long-term guarantee package by 2020 and asked whether this could be done earlier. That would also be desirable in our view, because it contains certain elements which are not actually working properly, but this date of evaluation is set out in the directive. The Commission will therefore have to carry out an evaluation in that year, because it has been established. If there are opportunities to speed up, I would very much support that. I would also like to see whether this could be done, but I think that the Commission will say: no, you have set it up as a legislator yourself. The year is in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u18	I understand the problem of the directive and I understand that this cannot be changed quickly. In our view, there is also a number of underlying legislation that also regulates a number of issues. For example, infrastructure bottlenecks have been identified. Could this regulation be amended sooner, so that at least these bottlenecks can be resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u19	I promise I'll look into that. This may be the same argument that the moments of evaluation are set out in the scheme itself, but if there are opportunities to initiate it more quickly, we will do so. After all, we know what problems arise. We would also prefer to deal with it sooner than later. Mrs De Vries asked about the consequences of the reduction in the UFR. In terms of consolidation, i.e. restructuring the insurance sector, markets do not immediately demand compliance, although the new UFR is phased in and introduced in steps. So there are two points. It is very gradual in steps of 0.15 percentage points. This is just about the last piece of the interest rate curve. That last piece will fall by 0.02% at most. Those are the steps for the last part of the interest rate curve. So it really has very minimal effects on the solvency position. I do not expect markets to pass on the whole UFR change, if only because they cannot. I can't say anything else. I really expect a very limited effect. I also expect no impact on consolidation. The real problem and the real challenge for Dutch insurers are in the market and in the structure of the market in the Netherlands. A number of products have made a lot of money in the past, but they are no longer profitable. In the past, guaranteed high returns have been promised to customers. This is still a long way from being achieved, while the returns can no longer be realised. These are the real problems for insurers in the Netherlands. That's the real challenge. I think that this process will have a marginal impact on that. Mr Omtzigt made the link with the Solvency II evaluations. There's two of them. The adoption of the UFR method is a competence of EIOPA within Solvency II. The review that takes place in 2018 concerns level II measures, i.e. underlying regulation laying down the calculation of solvency requirements. It will be evaluated in 2018. Then the Commission may come up with an adjustment proposal. Because they are level II measures, this goes into a so-called tacit procedure. The review planned for 2020 concerns the Solvency II Directive itself. It shall, in particular, evaluate the measures taken in favour of long-term guarantees to policy holders. This goes through a trilogue procedure. So these are really separate decision-making processes, all of which have their own level, related to the level of regulation. The decision of EIOPA to establish the UFR method and the reduction resulting from it is thus truly separate from these two evaluations, not only in time, but also in the decision-making procedure that has been established for that purpose. Mr Omtzigt asked questions about the relationship with QE and the ECB; that is not surprising. He knows my answer; that's not surprising either. The ECB shall be independent. The governing council comes within its mandate, which is clear, to its own decisions on monetary policy. I'm not gonna comment on that. Maybe I can make one more comment. Mr Omtzigt said that it is leaking on all sides and that is a sign of division. The charming thing about the governing council is that the minutes are just published with some delay and that you can read in it for a long time that there are different views in the governing council. By the way, that is not exceptional, because the Fed in America also makes that known. The Bank of England's interest-rate committee also makes it clear that there may be different views in the bank's management, for example on interest-rate policy. In my opinion, all the other comments were not questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u20	My last comment was a question. Germany has clearly stated that it wants a German to succeed Draghi. The government is about the appointments. I wonder whether the Dutch Government supports the aim of a German or a Northern European being there, or whether it does not take a stand on this. That is always a point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u21	That's really premature. Mr Draghi has been appointed far in 2019. Mr Omtzigt formulated it as a position of the German Government. I am not aware of that position. I've also heard rumors from our eastern neighbors. It is completely unclear who these rumours come from or what status they have. I can confirm in general terms that the President of the German Central Bank would be an excellent successor to Mr Draghi, but there is really no formal candidacy. The whole discussion is very premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u22	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u23	I am pleased that the Minister says that Mr Weidmann would be a good successor to Mr Draghi.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u24	With respect, because Mr Koolmees made the joke that Reuters has already turned on the telex again: there are by that time a lot of good successors imaginable. The Dutch Government really has no opinion on this. We cannot take a stand here on every rumor in the media about who would want which job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u25	It's not about who would want that job. I think there's a lot of people who want that job. It is a question of who is suitable for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u26	I believe that Mr Omtzigt now gives some insight into his own soul stirs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u27	Do you have ambitions, Mr. Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u28	No, I have no ambitions. It's a nice idea, though. Are there people who want to get rid of me or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u29	No, you're welcome here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u30	I feel something like that. Has the Dutch Government thought at all about this succession and how it should proceed? It is very important which person is elected and which policy is pursued. Or does she leave that to another cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u31	We will certainly leave that to the next government. It doesn't play until mid 2019. I do not know the exact date, but Mr Draghi is still in full control and will remain in control for at least two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u32	To avoid a second term on my part the following. I asked about the solvency. What solution do insurers have? The Minister says it has limited influence on solvency, but it does have influence. It will affect one more than the other. What are the possibilities of finding a solution to this problem? I referred, among other things, to an opinion of DNB on the Health Insurance Benefits Act. They also limit the possibilities, of course. The question is, in particular, what possibilities exist for resolving the problem of under-solvency if it should occur by reducing the interest rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u33	The government's position on the initiative law Profit benefit health insurers is well known; that is not positive. The recent advice of De Nederlandsche Bank and, in my opinion, the ACM is also not positive on that point. The insurers have the obvious possibilities. You need to strengthen your capital position once again, very limited and very gradually. You can do that by raising more capital or by holding more capital. It's really about very small steps. What should be done anyway and what would help in this respect is to improve the cost-income ratio, say: cost savings. This will be a real challenge for insurers in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u34	Two questions have been put to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u35	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I have two questions which have been asked by Mr Omtzigt. The first question is: what is the cabinet's starting point in the new system and does the cabinet pay attention to the whole of the European context? I hope that the starting point for a new cabinet is and remains that our pension system is based on solidarity and collectivity and that it is the strength of our pension system. This means that you can keep the obligation straight. I therefore assume that the new cabinet and the ESC will continue to see them as real pillars under our second pillar. I know that the ESC considers this to be very important. If I may say so, I would once again like to express the hope that the ESC will make a proposal for the new system very soon. The second question was: how do we ensure that, after the Brexit, the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union, in Europe, we still have sufficient supporters of the pension file? Mr Omtzigt is indeed concerned about this, because the United Kingdom is a supporter on this point. It is therefore very good that we have recently completed the review of the EIOPA Directive, which includes a six-year evaluation period. So I can now say very easily that there is nothing new under the sun for the time being. Edoch, it is incredibly important that we keep the situation very closely on our retina for the future, and that we maintain very good contact with the other Member States, the European Commission and EIOPA. After all, Mr Omtzigt quite rightly points out this point of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u36	I'll take a look around. It seems to me that at least Mr Van Rooijen needs a second term. Now he's gonna have the floor. You have one minute's speaking time, Mr Van Rooijen, and that includes the time for tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u37	I only have one motion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u38	Well, that saves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u39	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the answers. The Secretary of State also spoke about the future of the system, which is very important. I can be very brief: we do not convince each other. Since the beginning of last year, I have had a serious debate in the Senate with the Minister and the Secretary of State, but I have not made any progress. Nothing is slowing down, so I say to myself. I'll get on with it. Finally, I would like to point out that the difference in UFR has a huge impact on the coverage of pension funds. I won't put that in a number right now. I indicated that I was not talking about a faster UFR committee, but about an independent actuarial committee, preferably internationally. I have the honour to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the method and level of the UFR for insurers and pensions continue to vary considerably, even after a European adjustment of the UFR for insurers, while offering similar products in the same market;]] [[Whereas this may have a very different negative impact on pension participants in funds and insurers as a result of the low market interest rates;]] [[calls on the Government to have an independent actuarial examination carried out by a renowned actuarial office on the differences between the UFR for pension funds and insurers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-366]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr. Chairman. Maybe I'll get the motion in a minute. Then I can see the finer details of it, but the main line is clear, I think. Mr Van Rooijen says two things in his introductory remarks to which I must respond. He says that the difference between the UFR for pension funds and for insurers has a major impact on the coverage of pension funds. That wording is incorrect. Yes, there is a difference between the UFR for insurers and for pension funds, but that stems from the fact that pensions and insurance are really very different products. There are different rules for this, and that is quite right, because they are different products with different obligations and certainties. And indeed, there are problems with the levels of funding, but they simply have to do with the rate of interest that has been falling for almost 30 years now, and the fact that we cannot assume that this will be corrected very substantially in the short term. That is what we need to focus on; that is the reality of the current economy. So it has nothing to do with different methods for two different sectors. I'm on my way to the motions now. In his motion, Mr Van Rooijen asked for item No. 366 for an independent actuarial examination. My first point concerns the word 'independent'. The committee that advises De Nederlandsche Bank and us on methods and thus on the outcome of a new UFR, is independent. With his wordings, Mr Van Rooijen always suggests that the committee we have for this purpose in the Netherlands would not be independent. I really must reject that suggestion. That committee does its work in independence. This involves renowned experts and scientists. For this there is a fixed system: once every few years that committee goes back to work and advises us on methods and the levels to be set.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u41	If the Minister wishes to emphasize this, which I did not intend to do, I am quite prepared to take that word out "independently." I was concerned that we should have an investigation other than the UFR committee: a renowned and preferably foreign actuarial agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u42	Nevertheless, I come with a negative opinion, namely that this motion should not be recommended, because of the approach of the motion in the recitals. What is the problem in the fact that the UFR is different for insurers and pension funds? That's not a problem. The sectors and products are different, I repeat what I said earlier. This must have different consequences for the funds and insurers. If that is the motivation, we certainly do not need a new actuarial study. We have a fixed system in which once every few years the case is reviewed. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u43	I would like to quote from the EIOPA report of 12 June last year: 'The European Pension Supervisor has criticised the Dutch calculation method by which pension funds have to calculate their liabilities'. The report also states that the calculation of the UFR for the Netherlands is certainly not to be accepted in Europe, because it is insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u44	I very much disagree with that. We are now having a discussion on how to get to the calculation rate for pension funds. It is precisely this method that makes it stable, because it is a monthly moving average over a ten-year period. It stabilizes the effect. Moreover, if pension funds are to be repaired, they will have years to do so. So it works both ways: in the determination of the measure and in the method of repair, there is a strong stabilising effect, making sure that there are no shock effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u45	Mr. Van Rooijen, we're not going to talk endlessly about the motion. It'll just be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u46	I have here a graph of the UFR. In this you can see that if interest rates remain constant, so in the next seven of those ten years the current level will remain unchanged, the RTS will fall and in due course will be 1.7%. I don't call that stable; that's a half ring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u47	Now Mr Van Rooijen really contradicts himself. If he wants a stable system, he wants, just like me, that there is a deceleration factor in the system and that averages are taken over a longer period of time, instead of any short-term shock being translated into the calculation rate. The result is, however, that there is a delay factor in it. That is the graph Mr Van Rooijen shows. I got that graph from him before, so I saw it, so I know her well. It shows that the effects of falling interest rates are slowly phased into the UFR. If you do not want that, you will have a completely unstable system, with major shocks for pension funds. If Mr Van Rooijen wants that, we certainly disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u48	Mr. Chairman. Now that the debate is over, I would like to make a point of order. About thirty Members' debates are quite a lot of work, for the Chamber of Representatives and the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u49	I've noticed it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u50	The parties that supported it, with the exception of 50PLUS, are not present. Three other parties feel obliged to say something here, but to say that I have asked a lot of questions about the UFR... That wasn't so bad; I'm looking at the minister. Mr President, perhaps you should look at how this has happened in the next evaluation of 30 Members' debates. This debate could also have been dealt with in writing to a large extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u51	I am grateful to my fellow Members for their presence and participation in the debate, as are the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-10.u52	We have come to the end of this 30-member debate. We will vote on Mr Van Rooijen's motion next Tuesday.
