ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State and the people in the public gallery. They are not so numerous, but undoubtedly there are many people who follow this debate differently. This debate was requested by Mr Hijink of the SP Group during the work on 16 May. He's the first speaker. Speaking time has been agreed. They're four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u2	Mr. Chairman. A little less than a month ago, computers were infected with WannaCry worldwide. That virus is called "ransomware," or as it is called "ransomware," and it's blocking your computer and holding your files hostage. Within one day, more than 230,000 computers were infected in more than 150 countries. In England the National Health Service was hit, in Spain Telefónica and in Germany Deutsche Bahn. Recently, in our country, the Sunflower was hit by ransomware. The medical records of 4,700 people on their holidays are gone. There was a backup, but what happens to the stolen data, no one knows. It indicates that there is little awareness about the risks of poor security of systems and the need to connect more and more data and devices online. At a time when more and more devices are connected to the Internet, it becomes particularly important that we improve security. Because no matter how ridiculous it may sound, it is not unthinkable that we will face digital attacks from hacked refrigerators, lighting systems and security cameras in the short term. Already there are networks of such devices ready for a possible attack. Is the Secretary of State aware of the vulnerability of these devices? Does he recognise that manufacturers should do more to improve security? Is he prepared to impose additional requirements on the household appliances that are currently poorly secured? What about the security of government systems? The Court of Auditors was very critical of this a few years ago. Can we trust that the government has enough offline backup options in case things really go wrong? And can we trust that crucial systems are not linked to the Internet, not even via other networks? Does the government, as a company like KPN does, have a team of ethical hackers who are constantly looking for vulnerabilities in their own systems? There are two choices for the government when it comes to our cybersecurity. We can do everything we can to close leaks and prevent incidents. Or, as a government, like the NSA in the US, we want to continue to actively use the backdoors in software, which we maintain vulnerabilities with. Right now, we're doing the last thing, with WannaCry as a result. Now we got away well, but next time it doesn't have to be. The SP wants information to improve, but above all, practical support for businesses and citizens. We would therefore like the National Cyber Security Centre not only to protect the vital sectors, but also to provide advice and practical support to small and medium-sized enterprises and civil society organisations. What is the state secretary's position on this proposal? Can the Secretary of State indicate who is responsible for the safety of our systems as far as he is concerned? Are those the people at home, who have to provide good updates and good software? Or is that the government, which should protect businesses and citizens instead of hacking itself? Is it the companies and individuals who are now making money buying and selling vulnerabilities in other people's software? Or is it the software vendors who make a lot of money on sale, but do not update it for a few years? If the Secretary of State's answer is that we are all responsible, I would like to hear how he intends to enforce the security of software and networks through all these parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has one of the largest internet nodes in the world. This makes our country an important port of transit of digital attacks on targets outside the Netherlands. But our country is also a target. State actors appear to be very interested in the innovative or specialist technology that the Netherlands is known for. This digital and economic espionage of foreign intelligence services also puts pressure on the competitiveness of the Netherlands. Recently, a global cyber attack took place. That is also the reason for this debate. A major attack with ransomware infected over 200,000 computers and over 10,000 organizations in 150 countries. The vulnerability was known and could also be repaired, but not everyone responsible for cybersecurity had run the update. In the opinion of our group, the Secretary of State replied adequately to the questions raised during oral Question Time on 16 May last. That is why I will use this debate to ask the Secretary of State a few other questions on this subject. Cyber safety is very important for national security. My group therefore wants a concrete action plan by the Secretary of State and not just the annual Cybersecurity picture of the Netherlands. The Cybersecurity statue of the Netherlands is an annual publication of the National Cyber Security Centre and contains insight into the developments, interests, threats and resilience in cyber security. The latest edition states, among other things, that the economic and geopolitical importance of our digital infrastructure is growing, that the espionage and sabotage threats are increasing, but that resistance is still lagging behind. It also states that the government and industry must invest and continue to take measures to strengthen the digital security of the Netherlands. In this context, I would ask the Secretary of State for a concrete action plan in the event of an emergency, just to put it this way. I also have a few other questions for the Secretary of State. First of all, after the recent attack with ransomware, it appeared that there had been an update of the software for two months to close the hole. Sometimes it is not timely closing a hole or remedying a vulnerability complex, because an update of the software can break the system. But sometimes it's also culpable stupidity, just to point it out. Is it possible to hold those responsible for this? Or is it the right way to make software makers liable for placing on the market or keeping unsafe software or not making updates available in time? In other words: is the existing liability legislation sufficient for ICT products and services? Secondly, what does the Secretary of State think of the earlier proposal made by Fox-IT, namely the appointment of a so-called 'cyber Commissioner', which is similar to the appointed Commissioner for the Delta Works? The latter has its own budget and can take decisions without the approval of the ministries. A similar structure would be needed for the cyber Commissioner, as this could lead to faster action in terms of security of digital systems and associated threats. Thirdly, the Ministry has announced that it welcomes the initiative of CyberSecurityKeten.NL. This is an alliance of six companies, each with a specific expertise, working with or without the government on an individual level. The aim of this initiative is to reduce the Dutch dependence on foreign internet technology and knowledge. Can the Secretary of State state indicate whether the government will engage with this consortium? Finalising: The importance of good security of our digital infrastructure cannot be overestimated. Now they were hospitals, parking and ATMs, next time there's something else down for days. Our dependence on digital infrastructure is only increasing as we start to hang more and more things on the Internet. We all know that's the near future. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, the government must be fully committed to ensuring strong security of our digital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u4	Mr. Chairman. A little month ago, the world was spooked by a cyber attack that could be called unique in terms of speed of spread. There was a snowball effect with eventually infected computers in 150 countries. It took less than a weekend. In the United Kingdom, for example, hospitals were shut down. The fact that the Netherlands was not affected is more luck than wisdom, as the Secretary of State indicated in the letter. That's what the CDA's worried about. The Secretary of State states in his letter that the National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) already warned on 14 March about the vulnerability, which the hostage software ultimately abused. How does the NCSC monitor what is done with such a warning? Is the mandate for the NCSC sufficient in relation to the private sector and to ensure that private parties close such vulnerabilities? The General Court recently announced in its 2016 audit that information security in five ministries is not yet in place. Two of them are Security and Justice and Health, Welfare and Sport. In particular, the inadequate backup and recovery measures are worrying in the light of this ransomware attack. A good backup ensures that data encrypted by the hostage software can be restored. That's an important part of the defense against these kinds of attacks. Can the Secretary of State indicate how work is now under way to get the back-up and recovery measures in the ministries in place? A focus of the General Court, which is also important in this context, is the far-reaching coherence of systems of government, but also the connection of systems between ministries and implementing institutions. For example, the payroll reporting chain of the Central Bureau of Statistics with the Tax Administration and the UWV. The General Court also writes in its report that digital processes that are so encrypted can have enormous consequences in the physical world. Think of the moment when the UWV can no longer perform its services. That is why I would like to know from the Secretary of State how we are going to protect ourselves from these vulnerabilities. In view of this new variant of hostage software, which is spreading itself, how will the next few years work on making connections between these systems safer? In this context, it is also important that there is a rapid implementation of the Network and Information Security Directive. This will oblige critical infrastructure operators, e.g. energy companies and governments, to manage security risks and report serious incidents. Is this bill still coming this fall? And how much time is needed after the adoption of the law before hospitals and energy companies meet the requirements of the law? I'm coming to a closure. Recently, Mrs Van Toorenburg drew attention to Dutch hospitals and the security of their ICTs during oral Question Time. At the beginning of this year it appeared that hospitals do not have their ICT security in order either. We have just seen the consequences in Britain if we do not have it in order. The Secretary of State has undertaken to ask a letter to the Minister of VWS stating when this is in order. The Dutch Association of Hospitals indicated in its first reaction of early February this year that they need a few years before they get it in order. We don't have a few years. We have to try to get it in order already. When's the letter coming? And do hospitals, for example, have plans ready in case there's such a successful attack? In short: we were lucky this time, but there is work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u5	That was a nice speech from the CDA. Thank you for that. I do have a question. Mrs Bruins Slot has not mentioned something that I think is very crucial in this debate: the handling of software vulnerabilities, namely whether or not to leave software vulnerabilities open for the intelligence and security services and the police. In recent months, the CDA has been strongly in favour of this in previous debates. There are a lot of experts who say: just leaving it open leads to this kind of cyberattack. How does the CDA look at that now? What is the CDA's current position on leaving these vulnerabilities open?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u6	Of course, this is about the zero-days. Mr Verhoeven asked that question during Question Time. At that time, the Secretary of State gave a very clear answer that this was precisely a reported vulnerability. It was already known on March 15th. At that time, all organisations were asked to run back-ups, and that was not the case. The situation that Mr Verhoeven is talking about is therefore different from the situation that has taken place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u7	We are talking about a vulnerability and a patch, a repair, which was announced two weeks before. At least, that's what I heard. At least I haven't heard the Secretary of State say otherwise. I'd like to hear that from him later. You can't expect world-wide software, as Mrs Bruins Slot herself said, to be updated by hundreds of thousands of systems if you use a vulnerability whose repair is only so soon known. If you choose to leave those vulnerabilities open, you always have this kind of trouble. I wonder if the CDA still has an eye for that. The CDA always says that it wants the services to be able to use those vulnerabilities, but then the CDA must also admit that this is a real risk that will be more frequent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u8	That is indeed the question that lies behind it. We have dealt with them extensively under the Computer Crime Act III and the Intelligence and Security Services Act (Wiv). The CDA's assessment was that, in order, for example, to be able to fight terrorism properly, in certain situations, you simply have to give the security services the room to use that back door. Both legislative proposals, i.e. both the Computer Crime Act III and the Wiv, have been carefully considered, including safeguards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u9	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u10	So basically the CDA says: we're making a lot of noise about this attack, because it's very bad that this happened and so the backups need to be better organised and we need to invest a lot and organize better. But about the real cause, leaving vulnerabilities open, the CDA says: let's just leave that, because we still think that's good. So the CDA says: we are not going to learn from this attack and stick to the view that we can just leave vulnerabilities open and take the dangers of it for granted. May I draw that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u11	No, Mr Verhoeven is not allowed to do that, because he is really pulling it out of context here. Mr Verhoeven also knows that leaving a vulnerability open is only used as an ultimatum remedium, for example if we want to tackle terrorism. Tackling terrorism is one of the most important things we need to do right now. Mr Verhoeven actually makes a comparison such as: criminals use a machine gun, but the police cannot do that anymore. That comparison doesn't work. The police and our security services will sometimes also have to use certain tools to ensure that the Netherlands is safe and to prevent terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u12	Mr Verhoeven now comes to his own term on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u13	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Two weeks ago, my fellow Members said it was one of the biggest cyber attacks ever to startle the world. Ransomware called WannaCry infected over 300,000 ICT systems in dozens of countries. The consequences were profound, sometimes even life-threatening. In England, for example, patients could no longer receive chemotherapy. The attack was so successful because the software vulnerabilities used had been kept open by the US Security Service NSA and not as long as a repair, a so-called patch, was available for it. As a result, many systems had not been updated in many places. The attack shows that keeping unknown vulnerabilities open has real risks to our cyber security. The cabinet, as well as parties such as the Labour Party, the CDA and the VVD, did not want to see that at least when dealing with the hacking law last year and a few months ago when dealing with the Intelligence and Security Services Act, the Wiv. The input of D66, which took a while, was either ignored, or underestimated, or laughed away. After an attack like this, however, playtime must be over. We can no longer look away and ignore the dangers of leaving vulnerabilities open. You can't do that anymore. It is time for a serious debate on cyber security. I am therefore very pleased that the SP has requested this debate. Where did it go wrong? First of all, of course, with owners of non-repaired systems, as in British hospitals. D66 has been asking for years to give the NCSC (National Cyber Security Centre) a stronger mandate. Allow NCSC semi-public institutions, such as hospitals, to actively help put their cyber security in order. The cabinet kept saying: no, that's up to the authorities, the hospitals, themselves. Does the Secretary of State also see the gravity of the matter and is he prepared to give the NCSC a greater mandate in this respect? Today's most important discussion I was trying to bring forward the matter in the interruption debate with Mrs Bruins Slot, of course, is about a real political choice. We can all say that we need to invest more, get our backups in order and pay more attention to them, but it is a political choice, namely the use and keeping of unknown vulnerabilities by the government. Yes, the police and intelligence services need to be able to hack, but D66 has always said that this must be done in a sensible way, which puts search interests on the one hand and cyber security interests on the other. I find it disappointing that the Secretary of State in his letter on WannaCry shows no awareness of the risks of keeping zero-days open, of unknown vulnerabilities. This ransomware attack shows exactly what can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u14	Mr Verhoeven may think it is on this point, but we have already had extensive debates on it. I found it interesting that Mr Verhoeven cited the hospitals. I believe that it is a shared concern of CDA and D66 that there is still a huge vulnerability and that we have far from solved it. What solution does Mr Verhoeven see to ensure that we adequately protect those approximately 90 hospitals in the Netherlands from these kinds of serious attacks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u15	Well, that's independent of whether you want to leave vulnerabilities open. I don't think we're gonna figure that out tonight. I have had many discussions about this with Mrs Van Toorenburg, who is now, to my great pleasure, chairman of this debate, but I will now park it. It is indeed a justified point. We have asked questions about it in the past. I don't know if we did this together with the CDA, but that could be very good. The idea of giving the NCSC a more active role in helping these types of semi-public bodies to secure themselves is, in my opinion, very good. We suggested this last year, but it did not come to an end at the time. Since I now see a cluster of MPs who are all nodding at this idea, I have the feeling that it might go that way tonight. I'd be very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u16	Indeed, the CDA and D66 have discussed cyber security in other debates with the Minister of VWS before. It's hard for hospitals to take that step. The reaction in February was that they still need a few more years. Perhaps it is a solution to put more pressure on it. What does Mr Verhoeven expect from the implementation of the European Directive, the NIB (Network and Information Security), which is coming to the Chamber quite soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u17	I think it will make an important contribution. In general, however, the implementation of European directives here does not go as quickly as we would like. So I think that an own national initiative, as an extra low, as an extra line of defence, would be good. That's got to appeal to the CDA. So I think it could be an en-en-story. We have a National Cyber Security Center, with a lot of knowledge. That is an existing organisation, which, as far as I am concerned, we can really use.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u18	I hear Mr Verhoeven talking about political will. We have had a wide-ranging debate here on the Computer Crime Act, in which we have been able to listen to Mr Verhoeven and his views for a very long time, even when it comes to unknown vulnerabilities. The debate was mainly about unknown vulnerabilities. As I read the letter and the information we received about this attack, it was a known vulnerability. I think that distinction should be clarified. I would remind Mr Verhoeven that we have made a very careful political weighting here. It was Mr Recourt and I who even tabled an amendment to provide even more guarantees for dealing with these unknown vulnerabilitys, not only an order by the prosecutor but also a judicial test. It is impossible for Mr Verhoeven to call that a purely political assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u19	I can do that. I even remember that amendment being discussed during that debate. I think it came not only from me but from the fact that several groups were surprised at the quality and extent of that amendment. As far as I am concerned, we do not need to take back history here, because that law has been dealt with. I would like to ask whether you should perhaps not think about using vulnerabilities or not, but that amendment did not ensure that it is now suddenly a very careful approach, with all guarantees standing. For example, the CTIVD, which oversees the intelligence and security services, has recently emphasised this. It has said that we need a better and more rigorous policy on the basis of which we can test. The cabinet even indicated that, including the Secretary of State. I will also ask him to really do something with the CTIVD's recommendations, because that has not happened so far. So much more could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u20	That more can still happen, I understand. And the hope that the D66 Group in the First Chamber will vote for this law that is desperately needed to tackle precisely the problems we are discussing here today, I do not even have any more. However, I would just like to correct that the picture that is outlined here as if we have done nothing here in this Chamber when dealing with that law to strengthen the safeguards in that law when it comes to the use of unknown vulnerabilities is incorrect. In fact, there is now a double guarantee in which, fortunately, we give the investigative services the powers they need to tackle and counter exactly what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u21	I respect that the VVD is satisfied with its own input at the time and still today. The Freedom Party, which is always very much in favour of tackling terrorism, voted against the Computer Crime Act III because of this risk. So it's not just from my group or that of GroenLinks and the SP. Whether this law is absolutely necessary, I do not know whether that is exactly the right explanation. What I do know is that everyone in this Chamber really wants to fight terrorism and be able to arrest suspects. My view is always that this can happen in many other ways and that leaving vulnerabilities open is not necessary and that leaving vulnerabilities open at the same time creates insecurity on the Internet. That's not why I'm here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u22	Before we do the whole debate again, a final word from Mrs Tellegen and then you can respond to it. And then we're gonna shut this part down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u23	In order to refresh Mr Verhoeven's sharp memory, I would like to say the following. In my opinion, the PVV did not vote against the Computer Crime Act at the time, but that was in the penalty for a number of crimes and so on. In this respect, the PVV was in any case in agreement with the VVD, the CDA and the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u24	I won't use the PVV anymore when I take my position. So excuse if that has caused confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u25	In any case, Mrs Helder is going to respond to that, because she has been addressed. Mrs Helder of the PVV will clarify what she has or has not voted for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u26	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. We must not leave this unspoken because otherwise it will stay that way. I did not give an explanation of vote on behalf of my group for nothing at the time. The truth is indeed in the middle. My group voted against, not because it opposes the opening up of these vulnerabilities, but because it believes that this far-reaching competence should be limited to crimes of eight years or more. I have specifically mentioned terrorism and serious crimes of violence and violence. So it's somewhere in the middle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u27	Then I'll give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u28	If I may make one more comment very briefly...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u29	Not in response to Mrs Helder's words. You may answer Mrs Tellegen's question very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u30	It's really a sincere search for connection on this subject. I am sometimes accused of wanting to be a sharpener on this point. We have said of each other: if you do not vote for this law, you are guilty at the time of a terrorist attack. I could say right now, if you're in favour of this kind of legislation, you're guilty of WannaCry. Those are the extremes we should not, of course, look for. But with the nuance, the way we deal with these vulnerabilities, what safeguards there are and what things are not yet well arranged, there is still a lot to gain. I would love it if we could get the CDA, the VVD and all kinds of other parties out of the shooter pits and get that sorted out. At least we can take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u31	Thank you. This wasn't very short. I give Mr Hijink the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u32	But it was meant to be. As chairman, you could also have an eye for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u33	First of all, I am pleased to hear that D66 agrees that it would be good if the National Cyber Security Centre were to have expansion and more tasks. Maybe we can make a start on that tonight. That's not my question. It's about the updates. Who is responsible for this? You could say that everyone is ultimately responsible for updating their software. But you might also wonder whether it is not also the responsibility of software developers and the companies that make a lot of money from it, to ensure that their software is used for as long as it is safe and up-to-date. How does Mr Verhoeven view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u34	It's a shared responsibility. You can't put it in one party. I absolutely believe that the user has a great responsibility. You can't ignore that. That's what the Cabinet always says, and I agree. But you cannot say that the manufacturers and all kinds of other players who determine part of the product in that chain should not have any responsibility at all, should not have a duty of care. I'd like to take a look at that, too. So it's really en-and-and here. You shouldn't say we put it in one place, but you should really try to let all parties in the chain take their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u35	I very much agree with that. For example, Microsoft says at some point that it stops supporting XP, Vista and you name it all. So Mr Verhoeven also says that you should be able to say to such a company: when you put something on the market and made a lot of money from it, do you also have a duty of care and a responsibility for the safety of that product?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u36	D66 has recently issued an own-initiative paper on the Internet of Things. In this we have paid a lot of attention to software liability or a warranty on software. I think that goes a long way towards Mr Hijink's ideas. So I think we can find each other on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u37	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u38	So the question to the Secretary of State is: does the Secretary of State see or not the risks of keeping zero-days open? I'd like to ask that question. I would also like to hear the answer to that. The CTIVD, the service supervisor, also warned recently that there is no good policy, that there is no clear balancing framework for keeping unknown software vulnerabilities open. When can a zero-day, such an unknown vulnerability, be kept open and when should it be reported? The United States has such a balancing framework with questions like: is the vulnerability found also in vital infrastructure, what is the security risk if you leave the vulnerability open and what kind of information do you expect to get through the vulnerability? That kind of question is within that framework. The cabinet said it would follow the recommendations of the CTIVD. Is the Secretary of State prepared to draw up such a balancing framework so that the CTIVD can better monitor? If not, I would like to hear what the cabinet is going to do to keep up with the recommendations. This monitoring must also apply to the police. That should therefore mean that the police cannot purchase hacking software if the zero-days used by the hacking software cannot be tested against the balancing framework. Does the Secretary of State agree with the D66 Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u39	Mr. Chairman. The WannaCry virus was disturbing in many respects, although fortunately it caused relatively little damage in the Netherlands. That is a question of happiness, according to the Secretary of State. First of all, worrying is the fact that a ransomware virus has been able to spread over a large part of the world at such a furious rate, secondly, the fact that the virus only had to enter one computer to infect an entire network and thirdly, the fact that it appears that the virus was developed by the National Security Agency, but somehow got into the wrong hands. That fact is shocking in itself. How is it possible that something has been developed within the NSA and used in this way? What does that actually say about our digital security? Fortunately, there was a key to stopping the virus, but at the same time it is a major danger. This virus is easy to adapt for those who know and want evil. I talked about it with the Dutch expert Brenno de Winter. Once the weaknesses have been removed, terrorists or perhaps hostile powers can take over with this vital infrastructure. Communication networks, hospitals, locks and energy companies can actually cripple the whole of society. That is a nightmare that must be prevented at all costs. You can hardly think of a clearer warning. Cybercrime is one of the great threats of our time. We have to face the fact that it is no longer just individuals trying to hack into an attic. It is a great and structural danger that it can be used as a weapon by groups, organisations and nations that are not in favour of us. That is why more needs to be done on cybersecurity. As far as we are concerned, it is still incomprehensible that Mr Verhoeven's amendment did not obtain a majority in the last budget debate on Justice. More money is not only the solution, but it is becoming increasingly clear that there is a very great threat to global security. The Netherlands should be at the forefront of tackling this problem. Is the government willing to invest in proactive knowledge sharing and make the information society more secure? And if so, how? What lessons does the government draw from these events? I'd like a response. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u40	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Tellegen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u41	Mr. Chairman. Don't think about it: you're fighting for your life in the ICU department of a hospital and the device you're lying on is being hacked or a hacker succeeds in attacking the Delta Works digitally, resulting in a potential new flood disaster. They look like scenes from a movie, but they're scenarios that can actually become reality. Every day we run the risk of hacking into the data we leave on the internet or stored digitally by companies or by the government, whether it is our tax returns or our profile on a dating site. Until recently, we were mainly concerned about our safety in the streets, today we are increasingly concerned about our security in the digital world. The reason for this debate is the global attack with the hostage software WannaCry. In at least 150 countries hundreds of thousands of computer systems were hijacked in exchange for ransom. In the Netherlands the damage seems limited and only parking company Q-Park was affected. But the attack rightly raises the question of cybersecurity in the Netherlands. Are we doing enough to protect our citizens and make our vital infrastructure resilient? Is there enough going on to secure Dutch business? First of all, it is about giving our investigation and security services the powers to do what is necessary to protect us from outside cyber attacks and to tackle cybercrime. They urgently need the Computer Crime Act III and the Intelligence and Security Services Act. I therefore hope that the parties who voted against these laws in the Lower House will still vote in the Upper House. In addition to adequate legislation, more is needed. I call knowledge and skill. We need to attract and deploy the best-looking heads to optimally guard our digital dikes. This applies to our vital infrastructure, but also to the information security of and by the government. If we are to work on cybersecurity, we need ICT expertise. Then digi professionals are needed to use their knowledge and skills for a safe digital Netherlands. What is the government's commitment in this respect? Is the Top Income Standards Act an obstacle to this? I come to speak about coordination. In almost every debate on this subject, there is a call for stronger coordination. The necessary steps have been taken and taken to bring all players from the field together in a structural manner. That's what happens at the National Cyber Security Center. That's what happens in computer emergency response teams. That's what happens in the National Detection Network. This is done by the Minister of the Interior. It's done by this Secretary of State. But there is still a need for better coordination in all reports. Is the criticism of the fragmented picture of the approach and the lack of perseverance justified? I come to business. SMEs in particular are at increasing risk. Work is being done on the chain approach, as we read in the letter. Large companies take care of smaller companies to help them work on digital security, but that may not be enough. Is the Cybersecurity image of the Netherlands, which the Secretary of State is still sending for this summer, paying particular attention to SMEs and the damage suffered by SMEs as a result of cyber attacks and cybercrime? How does the Secretary of State view the advice that the NCSC should do more about SMEs in a practical sense? Finally, I have a question about safe products from ICT suppliers. Soon they will have a duty to report if the law is passed in the First Chamber. But they also have a duty of care. Is liability legislation in place on this point? Or should it be adjusted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u42	Mr. Chairman. At the end of March, a few days after my installation, I was at the desk of the ICT service of the House of Representatives. While I was trying to show myself with my new equipment, suddenly a very big crowd arose and all the employees suddenly had to put up all the sails. Then the House of Representatives was hit by ransomware. Fortunately, the damage was limited. But it did not end on 12 May for many companies and government institutions in the countries around us. It has already been said: WannaCry ransomware then spread worldwide, fast and uncontrolled. For many citizens, local authorities and businesses it was a wake-up call. They often do not have their basic safety in order, and that is worrying. A recent report by the Rathenau Institute shows that SMEs in particular need more support. Does the Secretary of State share this view? Does he think it is the responsibility of the government to invest in, for example, an independent knowledge and advice centre for these companies? Hacks in vital infrastructure would, of course, cause the greatest misery. Fortunately, the resilience there is largely well in order, but still there are exceptions. An annual stress test could reveal this. What does the Secretary of State think of the idea of asking companies that manage vital infrastructure to run an annual hack test? That idea was put forward by the Rathenau Institute. In the letter of 2 June, the State Secretary does not address the question whether the Netherlands is currently using sufficient detection capacity to deal with digital risks. I myself am very interested in an analysis of the available people and the resources available today, compared to the capacity required. That analysis is always useful when we talk about resources later. I have one last, not unimportant point. Mr Verhoeven has just mentioned the proposal on computer crime. According to the State Secretary, this offers effective protection against ICT threats, but GroenLinks has serious doubts about this. Following the adoption of the bill, the police can, simply put, hack back. It will buy so-called zero-days for this purpose. Through these unguarded backdoors in the security programs, hackers, including the backhackers like the police, enter computer systems. Of course, all this has already been discussed in the debate in December, but it is also relevant for today. So it's possible that the police won't reveal that there's a security breach. That is a leak that cannot be closed if the providers and business service providers do not know about it. Mrs Tellegen was just talking about the difference between known and unknown vulnerabilities, but these vulnerabilities of course remain unknown to the general public if the police do not disclose them. It is a bit like the police have knowledge of the weakness of an alarm system, but chooses not to inform the homeowners in the Netherlands about it, even after the police themselves have already broken into the suspect's house. That makes citizens a lot more unsafe than they think they are. The ICT industry association has also sent another letter today to say that this is a matter of serious concern. Mrs. Bruins Slot made a comparison that I found very difficult. She said that those zero-days would give the police the weapons that terrorists now have. In my view, the point is that it is right to put a gun in front of you, including crumb thieves, and I do not know who, which really does not make the situation any safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u43	I know that the zero-days will never work out again between me and my colleague from GroenLinks. Nevertheless, I have just said that I hope that the GroenLinks Group in the First Chamber will take a sensible decision, but on the side. You mentioned an example of leaving open a vulnerability that could lead to a lot of homeowners not having their security system in order, but that will of course never pass the test we built in. That would never pass the D.A.'s or the judge's test. If this vulnerability is to be left open, it must always be proportionate. If it made so many victims, it would never work and the judge commissioner would never allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u44	For individuals...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u45	Mrs Tellegen concludes her question and you will have the floor, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u46	You were talking about homeowners in the broadest sense. I'm looking for a way to conduct the discussion of zero days in a nuanced manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u47	What is your specific question, Mrs Tellegen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u48	Does Mrs Buitenweg agree with me that thanks to the guarantees we put in it, it would never pass those tests?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u49	What I make up, also from the concerns expressed by the industry association, is that there are still vulnerabilities for individual users. These are, of course, people or companies involved in damage. A vulnerability is left open, and I think it can cause damage and is therefore undesirable. I therefore hope that the recent ransomware attack has got the Secretary of State thinking. My question to him is whether he does not think it is desirable that these leaks should always be made known so that users can close those leaks as quickly as possible and therefore be more resilient to future cyber attacks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u50	The picture is now emerging that there are many, many leaks that the police and the security services use and that they can do so at random, but that is not the case. There is a very neat legal system built up in the Computer Crime Act and in the Intelligence and Security Services Act to make use of it. When can they make use of it? If it serves an important purpose to prevent worse, for example to prevent terrorist attacks. My comparison shows that in some cases you also have to give a means to a security service to avoid worse, but there is a proper test on that. That was my comparison and I hope that Mrs Buitenweg sees it that way. We have to avoid worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u51	I fully agree that terrorism must be combated. I have already said in another debate earlier today that I am very much in favour of targeted action. You only make it seem as if you can manage who is going to use such a leak, but people can of course also use a leak that does not have the good intentions you have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u52	"'U' is here I am. Mrs. Bruins Slot responds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u53	I think you agree, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u54	Leave me out of it, I'd say. Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u55	To speak from my own experience: as a military officer I have been sent to Uruzgan, as a platoon commander armoredhouwitzers, which is a kind of cannon. In such a struggle, different groups indeed use the same means in the physical world. The difference is only that if the Dutch army does so or the government, it is done on the basis of legal rules. Sometimes we have to use these terrible means to prevent even worse. That's what happens on the digital highway. But that doesn't mean that others can't use it. However, this is only done after the most careful consideration, for example in order to prevent a terrorist attack. My question to Mrs Buitenweg is therefore: is this not important in order to ensure that we can ultimately make sure that worse is prevented and that we do it better defined by regulation than we release it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u56	I do not want to fight you to do this with the very best of intentions, to make sure that this really serves a good purpose, namely to combat terrorism. I am sure that's what you're doing. The problem is, however, that it cannot be completely organized, that it cannot be completely cleaned up and that you deliberately allow leaks to arise and continue to arise; after all, you leave them standing. They make for insecurity and trouble. So it doesn't change the intention with which this has been done, but the fact is that those leaks continue to exist and that these are vulnerabilities that continue to affect people. I think it is important that you acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u57	"'U" is still me. You still have three-quarters of a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u58	I think the most important points have been reviewed. I'm worried about those vulnerabilities. I also mentioned the vital infrastructure and the stress test as well as an information point for SMEs. These seem to me to be the most important points at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u59	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have already mentioned to me the importance of the security of our vital infrastructures. That goes from great dikes, our electricity, hospitals, the House of Representatives to a little smaller but not more insignificant suffering, like the Sunflower, regardless of whatever kind of ransomware it is. As early as 2005, the PvdA, Mr Martijn van Dam, and the SP tabled a motion aimed at reporting obligations. Organizations should report when they were hacked. Parties such as CDA and VVD, but also the Consumers' Association were not enthusiastic about this at the time. They didn't think it was important enough. This shows that, more than ten years later, we are now on a different spectrum. In fact, the entire Chamber and the Cabinet are aware that it is incredibly important. Not for nothing is the cabinet, as I understand it, regularly in consultation with all that vital infrastructure to prevent cyberattacks. A large number of questions have already been asked by my colleagues; it also has its advantages to be one of the latter. Let me get this straight. A question has been asked about one minister for the digital government, i.e. for all digital information provision. I've been asked if you should do an annual hacking test. How does the Secretary of State view this? I would also like to ask a number of additional questions. The Secretary of State has already indicated that there will soon be an update on everything that happens on cybersecurity. My specific question is whether it takes into account the developments that are now taking place in the transformation of national police forces, where we need to prepare even more for cyber security and cyber research in the broad sense and how that is being developed. A second question I have is what we do with man himself. It is very nice when we put up a lot of safety systems, but I have heard from a number of people who are very much concerned with the security of large and small organisations that people are often the most important factor why the safety of systems fails. In what way are we going to bet on that? This is, of course, not only about SMEs, but also about individuals who are responsible for the security of these infrastructures. Clicking on a wrong mail is one small example, but that also happens in companies. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Finally. Six companies have joined forces to ensure that the Netherlands and companies operating in this industry are working together to make the Netherlands cyberproof. They rightly pointed out that it is important that we look at our own infrastructure and how we deal with it. I have a concrete example of this, on which the SP has also asked Parliamentary questions: the procurement of our national telecommunications. There is legislation in place which makes it possible to look at the countries of origin when contracting such services. In fact, this hasn't been settled yet. I think that's a missed opportunity. How does the Secretary of State look at the phenomenon of countries of origin and the procurement of our national infrastructure, such as telecommunications, in the light of our security and cybersecurity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u60	When we had the debate on the Computer Crime Act III at the time, the PvdA was still an active coalition partner and voted in favour. How would the PvdA Group vote on this law today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u61	I did not speak at the time, but we have discussed this in detail and for a long time within our group, because it is an important subject that concerns all kinds of things. We have seriously considered whether we should stop the use of 'zero-days', as I believe they are called 'zero-days'. In the end, we have been convinced that it is in the interests of combating terrorism that we should keep these opportunities open. We made a conscious decision on this at the time. I would not go back to this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u62	Thank you for that answer. Mrs Tellegen spoke a few times about the Eerste Kamergroups of various parties, who might still vote in favour in the First Chamber. It seems to me that it is very complicated to decide as a Member of the House how your Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats votes, because that is quite different. We don't have them on a string. But because we are working in that vein: what is the PvdA Group actually going to do with this law in the Upper House? I find that interesting. Maybe Mrs. Chicken has them on a string. Then I'd like to get the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u63	I haven't had any discussions on this with the E.R. Group yet, so I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u64	Thank you. The Secretary of State has asked for ten minutes to answer the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u65	The Secretary of State for Security and Justice will answer the questions of the Chamber. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u66	Mr. Chairman. The reason for the debate is the outbreak of the WannaCry ransomware earlier this month. We have already discussed this in Question Time. Following Question Time on 16 May, no reports have been received from the NCSC on contamination of the government and vital infrastructure. The impact was mainly outside the Netherlands. As a number of Members of Parliament have pointed out, I dare not say that we would be better at security. Such contamination sometimes takes place fairly randomly. It is a combination of ransomware with a worm that finds its way, from vulnerability to vulnerability hops and doesn't necessarily have to be targeted. You cannot always draw conclusions from who has been hit or not, but only count your blessings. Of course cybersecurity in the Netherlands is not on the agenda until after this outbreak. Many of the problems that the Chamber has found are also found in the various cybersecurity images for some time. You'd rather this didn't happen, but at least let it contribute to more awareness. Let even more people wake up that we have not already convinced with our awareness campaigns of the importance of cyber security, so that they can get their affairs in order. In the Netherlands the quality of cybersecurity and the NCSC is high. The need to be able to do more is also there. We have discussed this with the Chamber before, and we have already taken steps to do so, but there is certainly room for more to be done, both in capacity and in legislation and regulation. For this we have submitted the necessary laws, which have already been recalled, to the Chamber and we are going to submit the necessary laws. It's a tricky problem that's not easy to isolate. It doesn't work so simple that you're setting up a new government branch that's going to make sure the Netherlands is safe in cyber matters. Mr Hijink asked who exactly is responsible and gave the answer he was expecting. Unfortunately, I have to disappoint him in predictability. It is everyone, but not everyone a bit in the sense that you do one thing and that is enough. It's really a chain of responsibilities. By not taking responsibility you not only have yourself, but also weaken the chain that allows you to put others at risk and increase risks for all of us. That's what's complicated about this. I'm just gonna have to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u67	Mr Hijink, the Secretary of State has just started a brief introduction to the questions. Do you have a question at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u68	I don't know if he'll come back to the question about updates and who's responsible. Is he gonna come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u69	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u70	That was one of your specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u71	A question raised by Mr Hijink was about the safety risks arising from the increase in the number of networked devices. Internet of things, the Internet of things, means you can put everything online. Every thing is connected to the Internet. That's a tricky trend. You could start quietly as a society, but that's not how it works. It's all very attractive and when it's available, people will do it. This brings in itself a new risk, because even a slow cooker can be online. That's convenient, because then you can see on your phone when your pulled pork is cooked; that's very important. There's software in there, and if it's connected to a network, it can be hacked. If there's a vulnerability in it, make sure it's updated. It may not be the first device you think you might need to run a firmware update on your kitchen equipment after purchasing it. That is why it is important that we have a broader policy on this, preferably internationally, because it is products that are broad in the market. That's why the Ministry of Economic Affairs comes up with the roadmap safe hard and software. Of course, I always insist that the issue of cybersecurity has a prominent place in this. You should impose product requirements in this area at international level, but at least at EU level. This should also be included in the EU's cyber strategy, which we expect this year. The Netherlands always points out that this must be part of it. We stress that these products are not only nice gadgets, but also have a side that carries very serious risks, risks that you have to overcome. How are you going to point companies at their liability for this? You cannot set one standard for this, given the wide nature of hardware and software that is being worked on. In my opinion, the duty of care should affect several roles, namely both the supplier and the customer and the user. People in all those roles should be reminded of the part of the duty of care they have. We have published a handout on corporate duty of care within the Cyber Security Council. You will then have to indicate by sector how this duty of care can take the best form. This too is part of the aforementioned road map of my colleague for Economic Affairs. Let's take a very concrete look at the updates. Mr Hijink says: should you not require that someone who has ever put a product on the market will always support the software in that product? That's a little tricky for me. Let us take a concrete look at the vulnerability used in this attack. It was in Windows XP, and then in a protocol that is not necessarily needed for contemporary use. In fact, it was often overtaken by more modern protocols. You can say in such a case: the producer has put that product on the market, so he must continue to support it. But of course you can also say that in some cases products are so outdated or so vulnerable that you should simply replace them. So when purchasing, you have to make sure that there is a kind of "don't use after" date on the product. This is the case with this software. In addition, a company says: we are now so much further and there are so many new versions that you should not use this version anymore. Some people say: I can't live without it, because I bought follow-up equipment or software that doesn't run on newer versions. They can then be serviced, in this case for a fee. Later, the patch was made available for this vulnerability in a broad sense. So I think you have to hold people responsible for the products they put on the market. But one part of it, I think, can also be that you say: you just shouldn't use this product anymore, you shouldn't do that anymore. You can try to continue to service, but in such a case there is really no longer any way to service against it. Then a producer can say: switch to a new variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u72	I asked for this during my input. If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, we're going to have a duty of notification and a duty of care. At least, companies have that duty of care. There's a protocol in front of the board now. That's kind of a directive. It's not binding. How do we ensure that people or companies marketing products where there are vulnerabilities, actually, as with medicines, include a package leaflet, in this case a digital package leaflet? It says: you have to take this into account and these are the risks. The Secretary of State himself compared this with the way it was arranged at the expiry of the expiry date for medicines. How can we make this a little firmer, so that responsibility is also placed where companies also make money from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u73	I agree with Mrs Tellegen that this must be done. We're not quite there yet to say, okay, here I am, and that's how it's gonna be. This is also in the development of the road map of Economic Affairs that I have just mentioned. It's also in European regulation. After all, you want to do this wider than just for the Netherlands. You will have to make that demand by sector. Of course, it does matter what you use equipment for and what it doesn't for. That shows all the complexity. You can still think per product placed on the market. But these products also act on each other. In a hospital, for example, one would like to get off Windows XP, but it becomes more difficult if one can no longer use certain equipment because the supplier of that equipment does not allow it all to migrate to newer versions. You're gonna have to pay attention to that, too. So it's a little more complicated than just opting for that duty of care right now. Part is also included in the agreements made by the customer with the supplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u74	I agree with the Secretary of State that it is the question where the responsibility of both the user and the producer begins and ends. Someone just told me there are ATMs in Moscow that are running on Windows 98. Now I understand that that is an extreme case, but of course there are commercial interests in the game. It is very interesting for a software provider to present a whole new operating system every few years, especially if you then stop supporting the previous one. That's how you keep the business running. Doesn't it make sense for you to say: if a supplier has put something on the market, for which consumers have paid a lot, then can the supplier also be expected to continue to support it? If he stops the support, for example, should he not hand over the undressed but safe version of the successor to the user?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u75	I might have been a little too theoretical to think about. When I say sometimes it's better to just say goodbye to something that's really outdated, I don't want to say that you should become a business model or that producers should say: yes, I think it's outdated, buy a new one. But at some point you can see that it is safer not to have that in your entire network, in society, than to keep patching it up. That doesn't change the fact that I think that if you deliver something that contains a vulnerability that is later discovered and that is already in it, if you have delivered a product in which that opening was offered, you should also patch it. Then you need to update it, too. The legislation we also advocate at European level includes that. If you deliver digital content, in order to be wider than the term "software," then security, accessibility and continuity are subject to compliance. Offering updates is also included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u76	Yes, that is one of them, but at the same time the Secretary of State says: such a responsibility is finite. Or does he say, as we see it, that responsibility should remain with companies? Actually, that's not happening right now. Now companies stop supporting certain software, making a lot of computers very vulnerable. Does he think that this responsibility should be extended and will he come forward with proposals to that effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u77	From a safety point of view, it is sometimes more important to stop using certain software than to keep patching up that software. Furthermore, you always run the risk that the supplier is no longer there, if he has gone bankrupt, for example. In such a case, you can't count on the original supplier delivering updates. So you have to look at it wider than just thinking: giving updates until infinite is the solution. The obligation of conformity is that you do, especially when it comes to safety risks that were already embedded in the product you have placed on the market. Products are countless rules codes. They're very difficult to infallible. Vulnerabilities are not deliberately put into it. So you have to keep updating it, but that doesn't solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u78	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u79	The necessary questions have been asked about direction and what I think of the broad call for coordination. I find that complicated. I imagine you'd choose to redesign it, but I find that difficult for two reasons. The first reason is that the call for coordination often stops at that point, but what do you coordinate? It is very nice for society that you know that you only have to contact one government person for all complaints that have anything to do with cyber, but that is not yet coordination. Then you need to know what you want that person to do first. You can't just say: you're some sort of überbewinding person in this area and the rest of you have to listen to you. It doesn't work like that if you don't just have a plan that you're all working on. The second reason is that it is very difficult to separate from primary processes in others. It's not something for the side. If you put the digital side of the government with one person, it's about a lot. Hospitals have already been mentioned. It is not the case that the primary process in a hospital is separate from the ICT. We often call that supporting infrastructure, but it is more and more at the heart of the matter. You soon get a field of tension, insofar as you say "'he coordinates', which makes the others think "'okay, so it's not mine', while it only works when everyone takes responsibility on their own territory. First, you need to know what steps need to be taken, which may require you to break the bulkheads. Once you find that answer, you may be able to register one person who needs to do so actively. I immediately come to the question of whether NCSC can start to service hospitals and/or SMEs. I see a major role for the NCSC, but not so much as the body that should itself serve 1 million SMEs or all hospitals in the Netherlands. You can't call the NCSC, after which you'll have a van in front of you, the employees will be busy with you for a week and then you'll be safe. That's not how it works. I do think that is also part of the plans for the NCSC to work together with other cybersecurity organisations, which work by industry, for example, or how you would prefer to organise it from within society. In the medical sector, for example, you have the Care-CERT, the computer emergency response team. You can make the NCSC work through these organisations, so that they can play a role in it and get to the NCSC. You can also have decentralised clubs, set up in a way that suits the sector, where the information is shared and where action can be taken with service providers who can do so for another. I think so too...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u80	I hear you want to start a new piece, but first I give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u81	The Secretary of State began his speech by stressing that it is important to first analyse the steps you want to take to break divisions, for example, before giving someone more direction and coordination. The last time we talked about the Care-CERT, that was still being set up. My question to the Secretary of State is: since when has this organisation been active?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u82	I do not have the answer to the question at which stage the Care-CERT is at or how operational it is. I do know, however, that an information security action plan from the VWS Department will be sent to the Chamber before the summer. I think the details will be in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u83	The Secretary of State now gave the impression that we already have a Zorg-CERT, that it has already been established and that it is already active at work, but that is where the problem lies. None of that is true. It is being set up and we are still thinking about the exact steps to be taken. Is it not right, then, to first make the analysis which the Secretary of State himself is referring to? With regard to private or semi-public institutions, about which Mr Verhoeven spoke, do we have a sufficiently clear answer to what we should ask of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u84	In my view, this is part of the NIS directive we are working on, as far as they are covered by it. It says what we are going to ask of them and what is legally required for them. I did not want to give the impression that all these decentralised organisations, sector clubs or CERTs are already there. I wanted to outline more about how I see the role of the NCSC in relation to society, not as a direct player who can be called by anyone and then arrange it, but more as a central point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u85	The Secretary of State says that the NCSC will not, of course, support 1 million entrepreneurs or companies with vans, but I do not think that is proposed either. Both the Rathenau Institute and VNO-NCW say that it is precisely for small and medium-sized enterprises that there is now a lack of a concrete point of contact, not only for information but also for support against attacks. Fortunately, not 1 million companies are attacked a day, but in extreme cases, such as the example of Sunflower mentioned above, I can imagine that one would have liked to have had a consultative point to call and ask: what is going on, can you help us and is this perhaps relevant to other organisations or companies? Those companies have nowhere to go at the moment in their own eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u86	I don't think it's complicated. On the one hand, one could say that such a sector representative could build himself on such an organisation, on such a link point. They will also have members who say: that's us, you can just call us, it's our company, it's our core business. If the SMEs say that they prefer someone who arranges it without getting an invoice, it becomes complicated. On the other hand, you want to clarify who reliable partners are when you're in trouble; so you don't need people who want to take advantage of the fact that you're already in there. In this information we can take a step forward. We're already working with the NCSC to see how we can move in there, so you can get that by sector. That doesn't necessarily have to be strictly separate, but it's about how we can make it come more from society. That's better than we're saying right now, call the NCSC. Then you miss the focus on critical and vital infrastructure again, and then it waters down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u87	Mr. Hijink, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u88	I don't think that's gonna have to bite each other. You now have a place where all knowledge and technology is available. Then why choose to let all those entrepreneurs and civil society organisations who have no contact now invent the wheel themselves? That seems to me to be the reverse order. There's a place where the knowledge is. Well, use that one, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u89	There's more places. Those people really don't have to invent the wheel, but they can't all drive the NCSC car. That's kind of the picture. So we would like to expand and share that knowledge, so that it is available at another point. That point can still be taken up with the NCSC if it is a difficult issue or if it is thought to have major repercussions on vital infrastructure. But if we open the NCSC tomorrow as a call center for anyone with a computer problem, we won't get to the core task. So you're gonna have to find a smarter relationship in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u90	Understanding the way in which the Secretary of State tries to parry the proposals to give the NCSC a slightly more active role. He says "vans" and "callcenter" all the time. I don't think anyone wants vans and a call center. In my view, we want a little more room for a more proactive role for NSCS than is currently the case. This has proved difficult in the past, because the cabinet found and felt that it was up to the hospitals themselves. We are not looking for a super-large office, with vans and a call centre, where everyone can go to have their problem solved for free, but we are looking for a more active role for that very well-equipped organization. There's got to be something to settle there, right? We can take a step in that, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u91	I would like to outline what I see as the consequence of the NCSC being the point of contact for SMEs and everyone in the medical sector from now on. I'm not saying that the Chamber wants me to buy vans and set up a call center, but my idea is that that's gonna happen if you just open it now. I just want the NCSC to be able to share the accumulated knowledge, as well as knowledge about how to design it well, more widely. Therefore, the NCSC is constantly actively seeking partners in society to shape this and is very active in stimulating initiatives to this end. It will not be up to us, to the NCSC and the initiatives. It's important to bring them together now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u92	It is also different for SMEs, which are hundreds of thousands of companies. It's been going on at the hospitals for a long time. The hospital sector is more transparent in number and has a larger government component; this is still more semi-government, although of course there are also private hospitals. What about organizations like that? If the Secretary of State considers that the NCSC should not play an excessive role in this, then that raises the question as to why the NCSC was set up at all. What about those, like, 150 hospitals in the Netherlands? I hear Mrs Bruins Slot say that there are fewer, about 95.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u93	We must be careful to ensure that, because of my reluctance and the enthusiasm of the Chamber, we create a distinction that is not there to that extent. I think it would be wise if you had a medical CERT for the hospital sector with its specific infrastructure and systems that is in close contact with the NCSC. The NCSC shares a lot of information with everyone, in the sense that it is available through the website and public information. I think that the NCSC in such a layered, networked structure certainly plays a major role with a specialist branch in between which is not just government. In the long run, it'll be a very big NCSC. In this way, you take away the sector's much-needed own responsibility. The sector must invest and participate in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u94	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u95	Mrs. Bruins Slot asked when the NIB was coming. That goes into consultation within a few weeks and then comes to the Lower House. Then there was a question about the CyberSecurityKeten.NL initiative. I welcome that in general. In this case, a number of service providers have managed to make themselves more known and say: we are here and this is our goal. I like that, because if there are companies or other organisations that are wondering who is active in the field, this can help. It's early. I haven't been able to deal with this. I don't know if this is something the government should say right away: this is it. It can be a useful contribution, especially to announce to Dutch organisations and companies who want help with their cybersecurity that players are available and that you can make use of it. Mrs Buitenweg asked about the annual stress test advised by the Rathenau Institute. I think this could be a very useful function. I hesitate to make it compulsory on behalf of the government immediately. You'll have a general security obligation with the NIB directive in a moment. You can shape them in different ways. I think that this option will be chosen quite often, so not only to install preventive measures, but also to test them. I think that fits in with the overall package. I do hesitate to make this particular variant, which can contribute to it, mandatory, because the general security obligation has yet to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u96	I think the Secretary of State just answered a question from my group about CyberSecurityKeten.NL. That's six companies. They do not want to act as a challenge for other companies. The aim is to reduce dependence on foreign Internet technology and knowledge. They're already working with individual governments. That was the reason for my question as to whether the national government sees anything in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u97	This is a specific initiative. I haven't been able to vet all the participating companies. I don't know what that's about. In general terms, I do think that this has something to do with the discussion on procurement................................................................................................................................................................................................... Who are we in business with? What is the impact of their origin and perhaps even their customer portfolio on safety if we go in with them? These are aspects that are getting more and more attention from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u98	For now, I am satisfied with that answer. I can imagine that too. May I ask the Secretary of State if he can take this with him in due course, if there is a letter on this subject that fits in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u99	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u100	That is a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u101	Following on from the subject I just discussed, namely the awareness of the impact on security, additional sessions were held last year for national buyers. They must pay attention to this. Those sessions will continue. The Minister of the Interior is preparing a hand delivery with a balancing framework on how to consider this element in procurement and procurement. Questions have also been asked about the back-up and recovery capabilities of various ministries. Now I can remember a painful episode in which the backup and recovery could go back a long way, even with not more software and hardware; but it did succeed. In a narrow sense, it is not a cybersecurity measure when it comes to a measure after it has gone wrong with cybersecurity. I believe that a motion on this subject was adopted today in this atmosphere. The Minister of the Interior will inform you about how this will be taken further. Each department is responsible for that. So I don't know about the latest state of affairs in every ministry. The Minister of the Interior will inform you about that. In a broader sense, we have advised from a cyber security point of view in previous threat images not to become totally dependent on backups with the same system in your network. After a network invasion, your backups are gone. Cloud services may not always be accessible either. Physical backups have thus been a focus of attention in recent years. Do we employ ethical hackers ourselves? Certainly, in the sense that we have people who have the skills and deal with them very ethically. We also hire other parties to test systems. We thus provide for the need of people who have the skills and want to use them for good. As you know, through the D.A.'s directive, we encourage people with good intentions, white hat hackers, not to be prosecuted. If they follow the procedure and report it neatly, they can count on it being appreciated for doing it for charity, not for their own gain or harming anyone else. We have been asked whether we can find enough other ICT expertise and whether the WNT is in the way. So far we have had no difficulty in recruiting. With the people we have so far accepted, the financial compensation does not seem to be the main driver either. In any case, a financial compensation within the standards of the law will never be able to compete with the gain you can gain from malicious things, I'm afraid. It continues to work hard every day to approach the adage "crime does not pay." The challenge of the work does play a major role, as does the satisfaction of being able to interfere with evildoers. In that sense, it's a game between hackers. If you come to work for us, regardless of the financial compensation, you will also be involved in whether you have the powers to make real work of it and whether your skills are not tempered because the legislation does not allow you to hack back or go after the hackers. That is why, of course, we have also dealt with the Computer Crime III bill with your Chamber. Mr Krol asked about knowledge sharing. That is a crucial point. For example, we have the website safeinternets.nl, with more than 1 million hits. Every year we also pay attention to it in the NL-Alertweeks, for a specific target group. With many civil society organisations and companies, we do our best to reach out to more people every year and to make them aware of the dangers and the things they can do to reduce the dangers themselves. Incidents where it has gone wrong, such as WannaCry, who led to this debate, at least contribute to raising awareness of the problem. We therefore note this in the attention paid to the information we give on this subject. Mrs Kuiken asked, this is in fact a continuation of this, whether man is not the most important factor. She's right about that. That is why we pay so much attention to information. In many cases, man is the most important factor. That's why we're very committed to raising awareness. There's a known acronym called PEBCAC. This means Problem Exists Between Computer And Chair, i.e. the man who sits there. He often makes the wrong choice. I think by now everyone knows you shouldn't click on emails with links from Nigerian princes. However, just when we have convinced everyone of that, those efforts are getting much smarter. They no longer come from a Nigerian prince or a prince from another country, but seem to come from your colleague, with a very convincing e-mail. Then you click on it and you're still in trouble. So information also remains something permanent. It's not like it's gonna stop. The Care CERT has been active since this week. The NCSC is now helping the Healthcare CERT with expertise to quickly "'up to speed'. So there is that cooperation in that too. Then I come to the questions about CC III and zero-days. I've been asked if I have a different view on the WannaCry episode. It won't be very surprising if I say the answer to that is no. The legal history shows that the law has been amended and tightened by the Cabinet on this point and later by the Chamber on the risks that exist if you maintain a zero-day. In my opinion, no one denies these risks, but it is a balance of interests and not an absolute matter that should go beyond reporting a zero-day. The law is also based on postponing a notification and not on keeping it permanent. The criteria for this need to be further developed. That was also a question: are you going to do that? Yes. The criteria mentioned from the NSA example were fairly general and also as we exchanged them here. What's the impact? Is it a common system in which the zero-day is found? I wouldn't want to make it so black-willed, in the sense of "it should never happen," just as the law doesn't allow it now: if the police don't want to report it, they don't have to. It is a delay, which can only be obtained after a careful procedure with a balance of interests. A vulnerability like this could not pass the test, because this is a system that has been used so much and on which so many vitals depend, that the importance is almost unthinkable that you keep it open for more than an hour within the frameworks we have given. On the whole other side of the spectrum, there are, of course, criminal or terrorist organisations, especially networks that are mainly involved in online crime or the exchange of cases and that have built their own infrastructure. You actually know: no one uses this, except the members of such a network. If you're already in there, which may be difficult with their knowledge expertise, then the only person you need to call is to report the vulnerability, the one you're trying to track down. That is why I do not want to make it so absolute and I think it is a weighting. The more widespread the product is in which the zero-day is and the more vital infrastructure rests on it, the smaller, smaller or up to zero the chance is that you can obtain a delay under the CC III legislation. So I think we have built in a careful procedure that lasts and I am totally behind. I acknowledge that keeping zero-days open is never good, but that it is sometimes necessary to deviate temporarily from other interests in order to serve a higher purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u102	Mr Verhoeven sneaks to the microphone. I will look at him with great interest in asking him not to have a whole new debate on the Computer Crime Act III, because that is what the Upper House is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the space you're offering me this evening. I will really try to do it briefly in a series of interruptions and then I'm done. The Secretary of State has said that it cannot be ruled out that the government is going to buy hacking software from companies containing those vulnerabilities that allow it to break into smartphones, computers, etc. on that basis. Isn't it true that with this kind of software it's impossible for the government to report it, because according to the business model of those companies, you can't report that vulnerability at all because you don't know it or because you can't report it because the contract says you can't? In other words, wouldn't you close the way to do it as a government when the Secretary of State says?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u104	With this complication that Mr Verhoeven calls, you do not close the road, because that road is specially designed for zero-days that the police themselves get to know during investigation. That's what you come across. That's what our own hackers come across. That's what the whole procedure is for. Then you have the dilemma of buying hacking tools that use vulnerabilities you don't know as a buyer. In doing so, you run the risk of making your recently made expensive purchase yourself useless the next day, because you happen to discover that zero-day yourself and then report it. That's gonna happen. It may also be that they curse the police at the service, because it was so handsome to find a zero-day that has been reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u105	So this was what it was all about at the end of the debate. I will not repeat it entirely, but then we have the situation and we can talk about the care, the guarantees, the fact that it is neat, that it is all well arranged. But this road, which the Secretary of State did not want to close and still does not close, makes it possible for you to buy software with vulnerabilities, which you as a government simply know you will never be able to report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u106	Up to this point, I still think it is a calm discussion that we are having. Only after this will the conclusion always be drawn. And then that one possibility is absoluteized and that windmill is being fought. You don't know what vulnerabilities they are either. That's right. But if you don't buy them, you don't. It's not gonna make it any safer. If you don't buy them, they're still here. Then someone else has them. And then you can neither use them nor report them. It's not like you're ruling out vulnerabilities at once by buying them. After all, if you're still figuring out the way I just described it, then you'll report them and then you'll find out that that tool you just bought doesn't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u107	Mr Verhoeven, a brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u108	We have been talking about this law for so long, because my group was concerned about leaving open certain possibilities that could lead to major problems in practice. And WannaCry is just an example of a big problem that has taken place in practice. Then the Secretary of State can say: that is the absoluteity of a hypothetical situation. But he also says that these vulnerabilities remain. But there is a difference as to whether the government should cooperate to keep a market for vulnerabilities alive by buying them in and then not being able to report them? Surely that's an extra role for the government that you can call dubious? You should think about whether as a government you want to stimulate the black market for software vulnerabilities in a way that the Secretary of State is now very lightly sketching? I think that's a lot, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u109	There are two things. Mr Verhoeven's use of the word 'open' gives the impression that by making the other choice, they close. And if you did, you could make a different assessment. But it's not like this. Every example is limp, so this too. There are a lot of things dual use. You can use it for good and for bad. There are also a lot of things that we forbid the whole of society to do, but on which we give the government the monopoly. We also exchanged in that debate that if you are the only one who makes this industry exist, you can stop it and make sure it doesn't happen again. In this case, unfortunately, they are being sold and that market is there. And it doesn't disappear. And you don't stimulate that either by saying as the Netherlands at once: we quit. Then you have a choice. You can ignore that vulnerability you can't close. Or you can use that vulnerability you can't close by purchasing those tools. It's not like by not buying it anymore, you could close them, fix the problem and make things safer. Because we don't know which vulnerabilities they are, fortunately we can't make a list of things we say: if we happen to find them ourselves, then we don't want to report them. That's not how it works. Then you just have to call them in and kill your own tool. And that makes it safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u110	What this short debate shows is that the way the government handles this is crucial for security on the Internet. If the government acts, buys and stimulates, hackers are indeed looking for these mistakes, benevolent and malicious. Of course, these kinds of attacks will happen more often. And so you need security services and the government to make sure we close holes instead of keeping them open, because it's convenient for us to come in from time to time. My question is about WannaCry. The Secretary of State says very easily that in our case it certainly had ensured that it had been reported earlier and thus closed. But if that is true, why, for example, has the NSA so gratefully used this vulnerability and probably still has a basket of similar vulnerabilities that have not yet been closed to this day?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u111	Assuming it was the NSA, because I can't speculate easily, the simple answer is because it doesn't fall under CC III. This is not covered by the balancing framework of the Dutch judge-supervisor and the Dutch prosecutor. Legislation that applies to the Netherlands does not suddenly apply to the US NSA. Again, it's all very complicated. The position is that we are safer off when the vulnerability is closed. That is also the starting point. Then you get the woolly reality that you can't wish them close and that not buying those things also doesn't cause them to close. Our position is that you report them, unless other interests outweigh them. Then you can postpone the call. Eventually, you also report the vulnerability you say the consequences for society of that vulnerability are small. If the investigation is very important, then if the judge's commissioner gives you permission to do so and you've found the vulnerability, you can get a delay in reporting. That's how we set up the law. I do understand the inconvenience of buying the product that is also bought by others who want evil with it. That's right. I also hate guns, other guns and guns. They're also bought by bad guys, but I'll take care of the police and the army. And it's not like by not buying them anymore, they're not being made anymore. If you as the Netherlands could ensure that zero-days are no longer dealt with by not buying them, I find that a different consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u112	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u113	That equation is really limp, but let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u114	It doesn't suit you. That's nice, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u115	When it comes to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u116	Gentlemen, Mr Hijink and finally the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u117	The Secretary of State quite easily assumes that the Dutch services would make a different assessment than the American. They can, of course, benefit greatly from backdoors in software, because they can easily enter for espionage or for the fight against terrorism or for the fight against crime. I understand. But if that means that all this time that backdoor is also open to all those evildoers, we increase the chance of attacks as we saw with WannaCry. It's only a matter of time before there's another attack like this. Then there is no way that such an attack could have been caused by a backdoor that our services or the American services already know to be open, and that could have been closed by now. That is a risk you are taking, and that is a danger to the security of the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u118	So this is the absolute or chain reasoning, which should often gain strength by putting the word "'absolute' and "'natural' in it, while it does not. Firstly, the Computer Crime Act III is not about services. The whole balancing framework I just mentioned is not about the security services. That's another law. It's being treated in a different place, with other considerations. By saying "'Nederlandse diensten or de NSA' you throw a few on a pile that work under different regimes. We have an interest in closing a vulnerability, if it is a vulnerability that is widely used, even among well-intentioned citizens. So in case of a vulnerability in a system that is widespread and/or supports vital infrastructure, the bar is very high, perhaps it is theoretical that you can say that in the investigation of the judge commissioner you are allowed not to report it. However, you also have systems that are not so widespread, as I mentioned earlier, systems that are designed and only used in a small circle, which are not used to little benefit. If, in that case, legislation states that vulnerability is a vulnerability and that we are never going to report it, under any circumstances, you are also blocking the way in which we can continue to do so. Then you want to be able to catch people who are acting in those vulnerabilities or who have abused them for evil purposes. You can't say on the one hand that you want to catch those bad guys, go after them and hack back, and on the other hand you don't want the government to have the powers to do that. It's not easy for me to assume anything, by the way. On the contrary, I assume that these are all extremely difficult considerations, which cannot be sketched black and white and can be answered very easily in the absolute sense in advance. For that, you need a balancing framework. That's what we made. This must be used in practice in order to strike a balance between safety in the broad sense on the one hand and safety on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u119	Thank you. Are there any questions from the Chamber you haven't answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u120	There's one more question open. That question is about the detection capacity, the available people and resources. I can tell you that we are also investing in digital tracking. There are now 120 FTEs working at the Team High Tech Crime This is happening in the construction of the cyberteam as well as in every regional unit of the police. That's what we're doing now. I can't say that's enough. It will receive continued attention, including in the years to come. This knowledge and skills will be further developed, as the digital world also continues to develop. That is what we have done so far, but I am not saying that it is sufficient for the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u121	I do not think Mrs Kuik's question about the national police has yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u122	That's true. Are we going to get another update? The Secretary of State gave a half-answer and will it come back specifically? This is about whether the place within the national police force and the changes announced by Mr Akerboom himself are not necessary. That seems to me also relevant for a new cabinet. I also asked a question about the procurement of national telecommunications.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u123	That's what I've been working on. This is about the attention paid by the Minister of the Interior to this issue with the buyers. That attention has increased. I have said that this must play a role, that it is a point of attention in the procurement process and that it is also considered in the procurement process whether it can be better anchored. I said something else about that. I didn't remember what I said. Anyway, I have said the necessary about this in my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u124	I wrote it down as an answer, too. I'm looking at the room. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. Speaking time shall not exceed one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u125	Mr. Chairman. I didn't have the illusion tonight that we would solve the whole problem of ransomware and such in just one hour, but I had hoped that we could take some concrete steps. I haven't quite noticed that with the Secretary of State. That's why I'm filing three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that cybercrime and espionage are at stake for citizens' digital security;]] [[noting that knowledge about cybersecurity is still lacking in many companies at the moment, but also that the systems and data of companies and institutions outside the vital sectors deserve protection;]] [[calls on the government, under the wings of the National Cyber Security Centre, to set up a digital trust centre that informs companies and social institutions, advises and provides concrete help and support on improving their cybersecurity and countering attacks by hackers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-465]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u126	I see I have 16 seconds left. Then I'm thinking, "I can't do that."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u127	I understand, but we also want to be able to hear you. So read the motion quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u128	I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many hacks and cyber attacks can be prevented and limited if companies, citizens and the government use the most recent updates of their software;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to increase knowledge about the need to update businesses, citizens and government and how to extend the care obligations of software developers so that citizens, businesses and the government working with older software do not miss out on crucial security updates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-466]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u129	The next motion is the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the development of the Internet of Things has led to a further influx of poorly secured devices from businesses and citizens;]] [[noting that no one is waiting for a massive cyber attack via hacked kettles or refrigerators;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the minimum safety requirements that can be imposed on such equipment, how these requirements can be enforced and what other measures are needed to protect consumers against poorly secured equipment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-467]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u130	Mr. Chairman. Three questions from my group have not been answered, but I thought: let me make it a coherent whole. I asked for a concrete action plan, which was intended to counter threats and attacks or to act if such an incident occurred. I said cyber security is very important for national security. In that context, I asked for a concrete action plan from the Secretary of State. That depends on me asking what the Secretary of State thinks of Fox-IT's proposal on a cyber commissioner. That is a Commissioner for the security of the digital infrastructure. The Secretary of State mentioned some sort of umbrella minister, but I didn't mean that one. I really meant a person who has to counter digital threats. My third question was whether liability legislation is still adequate. The Secretary of State has mentioned the obligation of conformity, but conformity is simply that as a buyer you can assume that it meets the requirements for normal use. I think that went a little bit beyond my question, so I would like to hear a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u131	Mr. Chairman. I want to thank the Secretary of State for his answers. When we look back at the effects of the ransomware attack in Britain, we saw indeed that operations in hospitals are stalling, with all the adverse consequences. That is why it is also good news that the Secretary of State says: the concern has now started with a computer emergency response team. That happened this week, finally, after the intention was first discussed in January 2016. I would like to ask another question about the role of the National Cyber Security Centre in this. Is it guaranteed that all hospitals and healthcare institutions will join the CERT, as it is called? Will it ultimately ensure that everyone takes the sensible measures that are advised? And if that doesn't happen, what role does the National Cyber Security Center have? My final question concerns the coming of the implementation of the Network and Information Security Directive. The Secretary of State says he's going into consultation right now. Does this still mean that we can expect the law in the autumn? There is a question behind this which I have not yet heard an answer to, namely that a number of firm measures must then be taken in order to comply with that directive. What exactly is the deadline for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u132	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State. His response was complete after the last five minutes. I found it regrettable that, when it came to the crucial point that we will be discussing in the coming period, there was also a bit of debate and reflection in demolition in order to maintain its position, while I had the feeling that it became clear that the government is going to work towards stimulating a somewhat dark market. That is what my group is concerned about. I'm sorry to hear that. Thank you for everything else. I'm filing two motions, which, of course, I'm not raving off. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CTIVD found that the methodology and the relevant considerations for reporting or not reporting unknown vulnerabilities were not developed and established internally;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a clear balancing framework for the intelligence services, the police and other public administrations on the methodology and the relevant considerations for reporting or non-reporting unknown vulnerabilities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-468]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u133	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the WannaCry ransomware attack in the United Kingdom resulted in numerous patients unable to receive treatment;]] [[noting that Dutch hospitals are also regularly affected by ransomware attacks;]] [[calls on the government, the National Cyber Security Centre, to mandate active (semi-) public institutions, such as hospitals, to help them get their cybersecurity in order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Hijink, Mr Buitenweg and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-469]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u134	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Secretary of State. For the sake of clarity, one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas digital security is an essential part of social security;]] [[calls on the government, material and intangible investment in proactive sharing of knowledge in order to make society more structurally aware and resilient in terms of digital security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-470]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u135	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I agree with the question I asked about the Commissioner. The Secretary of State has said a lot about this, but not about the job itself. I have two more points. First, the role of the NCSC. As I understand the Secretary of State, that's a pursuit function. But in what direction is that? On the one hand, we have the vital infrastructure and, on the other, we have SMEs and businesses. I'm looking in the State Secretary's answer for what he sees in front of him. I see the risk of overestimating that club. On the other hand, we are all aware that there is a lot going on and that we want to support the vital infrastructure. The same applies to SMEs. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to deal with the question of the relationship a little more specifically. Finally, a question about those safe products and ICT suppliers. Thank you for your answer on this point. We're waiting for the road map. The main concern of the VVD is that it is clearly agreed which responsibilities are borne by whom, namely producer and/or user.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u136	I did not ask questions to the VVD in the first term because it was actually already discussed with the CDA. But then Mrs Tellegen in an interruption to Mrs Buitenweg said a lot about the fact that it is all well regulated in the law, that it is careful and that there are safeguards and all legal rules. On the contrary, my point has always been that a number of things whose intention will undoubtedly be good, including those of the VVD Group, are not properly regulated in the law. Is the VVD prepared to look at it again in the future, even since the law is still in progress in the Upper House, to close a number of gaps that remain in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u137	I have just heard Mr Verhoeven argue very cheerfully that we in the Lower House are not talking about what they do in the Upper House, so I could be very faint and say: Mr Verhoeven, the VVD Group in the Upper Chamber is discussing its own consideration. That's what I highly recommend to her. But my point of view is clear. I believe that we have made a pure assessment here, and I am not going to go back to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u138	And we're not gonna repeat it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u139	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to compliment the Secretary of State. He has the chance that there are negative effects of buying zero-days very small. I hope, of course, that he is right. Anyway, time will tell after the bill is passed. On another point, I have a motion on stress tests. I have heard the Secretary of State say that he does not want it every year, but also that he sees the need for it. Hence my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas efforts should be made to maximise the resilience of the vital ICT infrastructure and an annual stress test should be a good means to this end;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the companies and managers concerned, to provide for an annual test to test the security of the vital ICT infrastructure against hacks, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Buitenweg and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-471]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u140	The Secretary of State has received all motions and can give them an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u141	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the motions and then deal with a number of questions. Mr Hijink's motion to paragraph No. 465 calls for a digital trust centre. I am totally in favour of such a center and the NCSC would like to stimulate it, but the motion refers to 'under the wings'. Then it becomes a hierarchy and the center gets an organizational coloring which I'm not sure is the most optimal. That is why I would like to discourage the motion in this form, but I would add that we are still working actively on this centre or something similar, in a broader sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u142	Perhaps then we misunderstand each other; that would be a pity. I deliberately called it 'under the wings' to give the Secretary of State some space in the way it happens. For me, it doesn't necessarily have to be directly part of the National Cyber Security Center. It could also be another variant. If the Secretary of State wants me to rephrase the motion with a few words, I am quite prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u143	I just want to see organisations set up with which the NCSC can enter into a partnership. We also encourage them to emerge, so it's not just waiting and hoping. But these organizations don't have to be government organizations to me, especially in this corner. I would rather use the momentum to organise this together with social partners than say: no matter how they behave, we must ensure that such a centre is established. This may also hinder the way in which the partners act in achieving this goal, while you want to jointly finance it and make it possible. That's why I keep dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 466 wants us to investigate how to increase knowledge. I miss what that motion adds, because this is just part of the work we do, also through Alert Online. In that sense, I find the motion superfluous. That's why I advise against it. The motion in part No. 467 I see as support for policy. I leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. There is an investigation into this at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I will ask my colleague to inform the Chamber about this after the investigation has been completed. The motion in part No. Mr Verhoeven's 468 has already been taken over in a letter to your Chamber in the field of services. In the zero-day letter we have outlined a similar framework for the police. In the treatment of the Computer Crime Act III, we indicated the situation in which trade-offs are taking place. In my view, therefore, we have already given substance to this motion. It may get a little complicated when I say that this is retroactive policy support. I think Mr Verhoeven expects something new to come. That's why I won't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u144	Mr Verhoeven is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u145	If there really is a framework, I'd like to withdraw the motion, but I'm not doing that right now. My fear is that this framework is not there, because the CTIVD has said so explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u146	There is a number here that I cannot quite read, but a letter states that the Minister of BZK and Defense will take over the recommendation from CTIVD Monitoring Report 53 and work out for their part. That indicates that it has already happened within the separate section of the Computer Crime Act III and for the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u147	You are dissuading the motion and Mr Verhoeven is considering withdrawing it if he gets any clarity on this point, I conclude. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u148	The motion in part No. Mr Verhoeven's 469 was concerned with broadening the NCSC's mandate. I would advise against the motion, because the mandate will then be very broad and there will also be overlap. For example, there is already the Municipal Information Security Service, with which the NCSC can work together. I want switching organisations with which the NCSC can connect and not necessarily broaden the NCSC itself. That's why I advise against the motion. The judgment on the motion in part No. I leave Mr Krol's 470 to the Chamber. The motion is policy support. In October this year, Alert Online will take place again. We also continue to invest in Safeinternet.nl. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 471 by Mrs Buitenweg. We've already exchanged that I see it as a useful tool, but that I think it's too rigid to prescribe it. I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u149	The Secretary of State leaves Mr Krol's motion to the Chamber and advises against Mrs Buitenweg's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u150	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u151	The Secretary of State has received a number of further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u152	Mrs Helder has asked the necessary questions about liability. I thought I had already answered it, but Mrs Helder didn't think so. Perhaps I can take that with me in another letter, if we clarify, by means of a detour, which elements exactly are involved. I have no more profound knowledge of what Mrs Helder is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u153	However, I would like to see a deadline set for the answer to Mrs Helder's question as to whether the legislation on liability in this area is satisfactory or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u154	I'll take it in another letter, but I don't know when it'll come. If you really want a concrete term: it could be before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u155	For the summer. Mrs Helder agrees. The other issues were the concrete action plan that Mrs Helder had asked for and the cyber Commissioner digital threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u156	That's right. It seems to me a better time to look at the threat picture to see whether we should take further action in relation to current policies and work and whether you think it is substantial enough to call it a whole new action plan. Especially now that the new threat picture is coming soon, that seems to me to be the reason to discuss whether more is needed. We now have the policy through the search approach. We have also just been able to free up the resources for strengthening the National Detection Network. Furthermore, we do a lot of public-private. On the threat picture, we will discuss this further. I come to the questions about the Digi Commissioner. I had indeed invested it with a coordinating director in my reply, but of course there are other variants as well. You need to know exactly what you want, because it makes sense for a new cabinet to draw up new plans for that. Then you need to know how you want it to happen. Do you want to invest it with a regiment or with a digi commissioner? If we set up a Digi Commissioner now, I wouldn't immediately see how these big changes are going to happen. It depends a little on how a new cabinet shapes that. The NIB Directive will be in consultation within a few weeks. After that, it also depends on how quickly your questions arrive and how quickly our answers will then be there. The ambition is that it will be in force by mid-2018, so it is through both Chambers. Then the measures and monitoring will also be operational. Those were the questions I had still to write down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u157	I think both Mrs Bruins Slot and Mrs Tellegen had a few questions, starting with Mrs Bruins Slot about the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u158	My question was about the relationship between the role of the National Cyber Security Centre and what Z-CERT is called for. How do you guarantee that in the end all healthcare institutions will actively join that new digital organisation from the care sector, giving you a closed system? At least that question applies if the Secretary of State really wants to invest the responsibilities in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u159	In order to be able to answer that question in full, it is important to what extent hospitals are considered to be subject to "vital infrastructure', also later at the NIB. Their assessment is now taking place. If this is done by the VWS Ministry, you can also color it in exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u160	I see that Mrs Tellegen's questions have also been answered. Then all questions were answered and all motions were given an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-21.u161	I thank the Chamber and the Secretary of State. We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled next Tuesday.
