ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u1	Mr. Chairman. In recent years, about 10,000 to 15,000 people have died of mesothelioma, lung cancer, which arises after exposure to asbestos. Unfortunately, treatment is not possible. Half of these people die within a year of diagnosis and 90% within two years. Who is responsible for this exposure to asbestos? In our view, that is the government and the employers. But who pays the price? These are workers, families and others who come into contact with asbestos without asking for it. Could it have been prevented? Yes, this could have been prevented, because it was already known in the 1960s that asbestos is harmful to human life. However, it took until 1993 to ban asbestos. That is a sad fact that, unfortunately, we cannot undo anymore. Last year there was a large number of applications from asbestos victims at the Institute of Asbestos Victims, 580, according to the annual report. The SP Group respects the rapid handling that IAS manages to achieve, but we believe that it is time for greater and more far-reaching action. It is a good thing that there is a compensation of almost €20,000 for victims. But that's no more than a Band-Aid on a bleeding wound. Last year alone, 523 cases of mesothelioma were identified. Of these, only about 150 victims received full compensation. By doing so, about a third of the applicants were entitled to do so. Expanding the limitation period could be estimated to make about 50% of this. So can we now speak of a great success? Not as far as the SP is concerned. There's nothing we can do about the past, but we can learn about future cases. According to the latest forecasts, 500 more victims are added every year. It is therefore expected that in the coming years another 10,000 Dutch will die from the consequences of mesothelioma. The question now is what the role of the government will be in these cases. Does the government allow thousands of families, in addition to medical suffering, to suffer legally? Does the government choose the interests of employers who refuse to take responsibility? Or does the cabinet choose its citizens? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. It's time for the government to plead guilty and take responsibility for the next few years. It must end the medical agony of thousands of families. We propose that the government fully compensate the victims of asbestos and then collect the money from employers and other responsible parties. Because what we know for sure is that victims have not chosen this disease for themselves, nor are they waiting for legal struts to be fully compensated. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that asbestos victims and their families should not be concerned about legal issues and that the victims should focus on their families during the remaining days? When will the government guarantee full compensation for all victims? Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine what role the government can play to remove the legal agony of victims and families? I'd like to hear a response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u2	I just want to clear up a misunderstanding. I get the impression that Mr Laçin says that anyone who reports is automatically a victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u3	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u4	Mr Laçin agrees with me that, if anyone comes forward, you must quickly but also carefully check whether he is indeed entitled to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u5	Sure. I will make that clear later in the motion I will table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. Diseases caused by asbestos cause a great deal of suffering to the victims and their families. Once we saw asbestos as a dream product, now we want to get rid of it as quickly as possible as far as the CDA is concerned. Because lung cancer, now better known as asbestos cancer, only occurs decades after exposure, you now see that the obligation to pay damages is due. Some parties rely on limitation periods and therefore do not have to pay. There are cases where lung membrane cancer, which was caused by exposure to asbestos, occurred only 40 or 50 years after that. The obligation to pay damages is due after 30 years. You can see, therefore, that the main issue of discussion on compensation for asbestos victims is statute of limitations. Actually, the Minister for Social Affairs is dealing with this. The CDA asks the Secretary of State to ask the Minister if he still wants to come up with a solution, if necessary legislation, which prevents limitation. For she must agree with me that this limitation period cannot be justified. Most of the victims were exposed in the 1950s to 1970s and are only now ill. Because someone only gets sick after a few years, he or his next of kin gets no compensation now. The Supreme Court did not deviate from this in its ruling on asbestos victims either. The Association of Victims of Asbestos wants some action to be taken on the limitation period. The Institute of Asbestos Victims also wants this issue to be put on the agenda. Are there any conversations with the members of the Institute of Asbestos Victims? Is there any prospect of a solution or can only legislation on this limitation period be helpful?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. Asbestos is a dangerous substance. It is therefore a good thing that its use in the Netherlands has been prohibited since 1993. Fortunately, the Netherlands gained this insight twelve years earlier than many other countries, preventing many victims in the Netherlands. However, the people who are now reporting to the Institute of Asbestos victims have absolutely nothing to do with that. They have in the past been exposed to asbestos without their knowledge, and they are now suffering the consequences. So our condolences go out to these victims. Hopefully, the regulations for asbestos victims, the TAS and the TNS will provide some financial relief. It is a good thing that these compensation schemes are in place for asbestos victims, but the reality of a terminal diagnosis does not really help. These people can only really be helped if medical treatment is developed to combat the malignant asbestos fibres in the body. I'd like to know what's going on with the Secretary of State. What about the experimental methods that can provide a solution? As far as PVV is concerned, funding for this should not be an obstacle, as is the case with the other terrible lung disease, the cystic fibrosis. Finally, I would like to return to the report of the Institute of Asbestos Victims, which reports that 167 of the 276 cases involved full compensation. Then why is there no full compensation in 109 cases? I can only assume that these asbestos victims do not fall between the regulations of the two ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Chairman. The number of asbestos victims with lung cancer is growing. Last year, 580 reports came in. That's more than the year before. That's very sad news. It's the hard reality. In the 1960s and 1970s asbestos was frequently used. Therefore, the IAS Director expects a peak in the number of victims in this period. Fortunately, the annual report of the Institute of Asbestos Victims also showed better signals. For example, asbestos victims receive compensation more quickly. That happens within less than 90 days. This is also very important because the health of the victim often goes downhill quickly. The IAS advises the SVB on the concession. Such a procedure shall not exceed 30 working days on average. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if we can make that average a maximum. It must therefore always be done within 30 working days. My group understands from the annual report that there is no agreement on a significant number of victims because of the burden of proof or limitation period. That feels unfair, and rightly so. How can we reduce that number? In other countries, for example, does it also have to do with refusals for limitation periods? GroenLinks would like to suggest the idea of linking subsidies easily in the future. When roofs are remodelled, there are also opportunities to make them sustainable, for example through insulation or the installation of solar panels on the new roofs. Does the Secretary of State see possibilities to facilitate this? Then we hit two birds with one stone and the owner is only once busy with his roof. I come to my final point. It is also important to see how we can prevent more victims. My group is concerned about the knowledge of individuals about asbestos. Up to 35m may a private asbestos be removed if the material is not damaged and asbestos fibres cannot be released. Earlier, a motion by Mr Smaling on better communication with regard to asbestos remodelling has been adopted. How's the communication coming? How will communication be checked? Are there any figures available on the knowledge of individuals about asbestos, for example in the recognition of asbestos?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr. Chairman. Asbestos is a dangerous substance. Now it's widely known, but it used to be different. A person who worked intensively with asbestos in the 1960s, 1970s was at risk of breathing the toxic asbestos fibres. After about 30 years and sometimes longer presence in the lungs, these fibres can lead to asbestos cancer, a horrific diagnosis. However, we cannot remove the suffering caused by asbestos. We can't reverse the clock either. With the knowledge of today, intensive work with asbestos without proper precautions was very unwise. It's terrible that people die because of this and they've already died. Then what can we do? It is important that people with this disease, to whom you die on average within a year of diagnosis, suffer as little as possible. The VVD therefore wants the mediation on diagnosis, blame and damages to take place as quickly and effectively as possible. Information should be transparent, as should the process and reporting. The VVD has no doubts about the use of the specialists in hospitals, the lung doctors who treat asbestos disease, as well as the specialists who deal with the claims for damages. This is confirmed in the letter from the Secretary of State we received this morning. I also read in the same letter that there are two regulations that apply to two groups of victims. This is also the responsibility of two ministries. How's that going? Are there no differences that could lead to unequal treatment? Has the Secretary of State spoken to the Institute of Asbestos Victims? Is that possible with the increase in the number of reports? The handling is done professionally and relatively quickly for me. If it turns out that improvements are needed and need to be made in certain areas, we will certainly look at them. I refer to the limitation period, which is mentioned on page 21 of the annual report of the Institute of Asbestos Victims. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? What about the statute of limitations? Is that a big problem? What can we possibly do about this? I read at the same time that despite limitation periods, damage is still being granted. I think this is a good thing. Is statute of limitations a major problem or not and, if so, how can this possibly be addressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u10	Mr. Chairman. The Asbestos Victims Association of the Netherlands, the Asbestos Victims Committee and the Asbestos Victims Institute are all committed to ensuring that people who have become sick of asbestos are given the advice, assistance and compensation they are entitled to. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for their important work. D66 strongly believes that people know where to go with questions, that people and their complaints are taken seriously and that it is not difficult for them to get justice. From that point of departure, I read the report on the record number of asbestos victims last year. That is a poignant record, because the increase is probably due to the fact that lung cancer does not reveal itself until years later. We cannot completely eliminate the suffering of the asbestos victims, but we must do everything we can to alleviate the suffering. I see a number of hopeful signals in that. Victims are now told within 90 days whether they are entitled to compensation. Many victims are now also receiving full compensation. Unfortunately, there are also some less hopeful signals. Asbestos and permits are still being tampered with. How is that possible? Does the Secretary of State have any idea of the scale of this and what is she doing to make this even harder? We all know ZEMBLA's broadcast of asbestos in the bakery sector. What's up with the cases? Did the people there receive the compensation they were entitled to? The Institute of Asbestos Victims indicates that statute of limitations is still a bottleneck in mediation. It seems that the estimates on which the limitation period is based are no longer correct. In the Netherlands people become ill later than they had assumed. Would it not therefore be appropriate to amend that limitation period? What is the outcome of the talks between the institute and the government? My final point concerns the legal agony. The Secretary of State states that it is prepared to take measures if the implementation of the concession scheme is found to be inadequate. Is it prepared to discuss this with the Institute of Asbestos Victims and inform the Chamber about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u11	This brings us to the end of the first-term contribution from the Chamber. I'll suspend the meeting for a few minutes and then we'll continue with the answer by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u12	Mr. Chairman. Asbestos is a dangerous substance. Mr Dijkstra has already said it. Unfortunately, because of its attractive properties, asbestos has been applied on a very large scale in the last century. The hazard characteristics are now well known. In 2010, the Health Council emphasised them once again, and we all agree on that. Asbestos disease brings great suffering to the victims and to the families. The aid and support provided through the Institute of Asbestos Victims is intended to reduce the legal suffering of asbestos victims. From my responsibilities, of course, I also focus on the maximum control of risks posed by asbestos. We do this along three main lines, which I sum up as follows. The first is approach at the source. Asbestos and its use have been banned since 1994. In the last 20 years, therefore, no new asbestos has been added. The second is to address the situations in which asbestos fibres can enter the safe living environment. This then translates into the already achieved phase-out of asbestos-containing brake lining in cars, the newly completed approach to the private asbestos roads around the former asbestos factories, all residents of Twente know exactly what this is about, as I say in this house too, and the banning of defensive asbestos roofs by the ban on asbestos roofs. The Chamber can help me with this source policy, because the relevant bill is now with this Chamber. It's just been controversially explained. Perhaps the Chamber would like to reconsider simply dealing with this subject with me, but that is a request from me. Given the importance of the whole issue, I can well imagine that all Members would like to talk about it, but the Chamber can also do something, and that is to deal with the legislative proposal. With my policy, I want to ensure that people are not exposed to those dangerous fibers. After all, what we do not want is that 40 years from now, people have become victims because they have received asbestos fibres through their living environment. If that is all right with you, Mr President, I would like to raise the following point of order. A number of questions have been asked in the area of the Minister for Social Affairs. I think Mr von Martels said that most clearly. I would like to make an attempt to say something about that, but if the Chamber wants to debate the subject of statute of limitations and knows that the Minister is negotiating this at the moment, I think it would have been really logical to invite him to this debate or to have that debate with him. I would like to make this point because I am committed to the fact that everyone has their own responsibilities. Moreover, I would like to say to Mr Dijkstra that the arrangements are being implemented jointly. The consultation between the departments and the institute is very good. So I don't want to change that. I now turn to the answers to some of the questions that have been raised. Mr Laçin asked if I would be prepared to examine the possibilities for a fund. There are already two arrangements. As far as I'm concerned, they're enough. In order to save victims a legal agony in making the former employer liable, we have concluded the covenant Institute Asbestos Victims. In 2000, this led to the establishment of this institute and the establishment of the TAS scheme at the time. Only asbestos victims who had contracted the disease mesothelioma as an employed person were eligible for this scheme. Of course, that was not enough. Therefore, an additional scheme was introduced in 2007 for victims with mesothelioma disease, and that is the scheme for which I am responsible, namely the Non-Wage Service-related Victims (TNS). In my opinion, an evaluation of the Institute of Asbestos Victims was sent to the Chamber in March 2016. I'll check on that date in a minute. The evaluation shall show how the Institute implements the scheme. In that evaluation we see that the benefits are appreciated. Through the scheme for which I am responsible, 2.5 to 3 million are paid each year. Through the TAS scheme, the wage-related scheme, that is 4 to 5 million. The per person allowance is set at almost €20,000 for 2017. Both schemes together therefore cover it 100%. Apart from the budgetary consequences that it would have and which I cannot overlook, I would therefore not like to set up a separate fund on top of that now, because I believe that these arrangements themselves fulfil their task.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u13	The two regulations and the evaluations are known to me. Only we see that not everyone with the diagnosis mesothelioma receives a full compensation. A colleague mentioned this problem. That is why I am talking about compensation and not about today's compensation of nearly €20,000. I think that's a big difference. I believe that the people who have mesothelioma should receive full compensation. It is precisely for this reason that the role of the government should be much greater. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u14	In other words, Mr Van Aalst has asked me the same question: are there people who fall between shore and ship, who do not receive compensation when they are entitled to it? Indeed, applications are rejected, but this happens if they are unjustified, if, for example, asbestos cancer has not been detected. That's why I think it's important to take that test. I am here to talk about the additional compensation that people are trying to claim from their employer. For example, there is the debate on limitation periods, but I would like to say a few words about this. Minister Asscher of SZW is currently working on this, but that is another discussion. Let me get on with this right away, because many Members have raised this issue. I understand that, too. I believe that the SZW Minister has said something about this before in this Chamber, namely that we do not really want people who knock on their employer's door to get into trouble when it comes to statute of limitations. However, both current schemes as such do not have a limitation period. That's an important fact. This obviously plays a role if you want to sue your employer or former employer and there must also be a compensation. In this context, civil law suddenly plays a role. The scheme, for which Minister Asscher is responsible, pays out to victims of paid employment and work-related problems. My colleague is currently in talks with covenant parties, with the aim of allowing this limitation period to be waived voluntarily. He himself will have to tell the Chamber how it stands. If there's any news, I'm sure he'll send a letter to the Chamber. There is a lot of talk about it, but at the moment there is nothing left to say about it. This is the intention with which the cabinet sits at the table with the covenant parties. Actually, that was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u15	Is there anything to say about the deadline? Is that still this year, after the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u16	I hope so. I am afraid to say this, but sometime in the summer this conversation, which is already going on, must have come to a result. I hope that after the summer the Chamber will be able to hear about this. So it won't be a year from now. In fact, I answered Mr von Martels' more fundamental question: how do we look at this limitation period? Well, in principle, we do not think it should play a role, but at the moment this is a general principle in the case-law. You can only come to an appointment if everyone voluntarily says he's gonna let it go. That is also the intention of the government. Then Mrs Kröger asked about the method and the time limit for payment on average. Both the asbestos institute and the SVB really do everything in their power to pay out and handle business as quickly as possible. Evaluations show that asbestos victims are generally satisfied with the services provided by the IAS, including the pace, but I will, of course, pass on Mrs Kröger's wish in relation to the deadline in our regular contacts to the Institute. So I am certainly prepared to say that again, but my impression is that they want to do so themselves. We're really not having a discussion about that with the Institute. The picture is that the number of asbestos victims is increasing. That was, I think, the reason for this debate. I have tried to answer questions about this in a letter of inquiry. Indeed, the number of applications in 2016 was higher than in previous years. We have seen that between 2010 and 2015, the number of applications varied between 500 and 560. The period between initial exposure to asbestos and development of disease symptoms is usually between 30 and 50 years. Epidemiologists expect the peak of casualties to be around this year or at least over the coming years. It is also expected to decrease gradually thereafter. Mr Van Aalst has asked for experimental medical examinations. I really can't answer that question. He's asking me over with that. That really is in the field of health. I am familiar with a number of medical examinations, both nationally and internationally, but stimulating such research is really something for my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u17	Is the Secretary of State prepared to at least agree to this with her colleague and inform the Chamber about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u18	I will, but you can also ask questions in writing. You have a whole arsenal of possibilities for direct contact with the Minister. Sometimes that's as effective as it is. So I'm willing to do that, but I'm not going to send another letter on my own. I will inform you that you are on top of that and I assume that VWS will pay attention to that in its ongoing correspondence with the Chamber. I told you, I'm for SZW. I think it's wonderful that everyone involves me like some kind of flying chicken, but there are limits to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u19	Mr Van Aalst, I think the Secretary of State has a point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u20	In part, I understand that, but these are asbestos victims and I believe that this issue should not lead to discussion between different ministries. I'm just trying to shed some light on the commitment we've been given. Does the Secretary of State now say that it is mainly about her colleague Mr Oomen-Ruijten that the Chamber will receive a letter to at least get an answer to the question of the experimental phase?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u21	But why is it so complicated for you to ask a few written questions about that? I'm willing to do it, but asking questions is much more manageable and much more practical, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u22	I would just like to tell you that at least there are deadlines for this and that you are actually seeing the answer come along. So I think it's a good suggestion from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u23	Not because I'm not interested in it, but because it's the most direct route. Then you can ask exactly what you want to know, on several points. Otherwise, I will now pass on a general question and you will receive a general letter. Then you may not get the answer you expect at every point. It's just a suggestion. Mr. Chairman. The collaboration between SZW and I and M is going very well. As already mentioned, the arrangements in the implementation are also linked. Mrs Van Eijs mentioned the bakery cases. The institute advises the Sociale Verzekeringsbank on which cases are eligible for compensation. Of course, if there are asbestos victims in the bakery, they will also be compensated. Mrs Kröger has raised two points in relation to everything related to the site of the asbestos roofs. As I said, the bill is here. The Chamber can handle it. We have sought, in the context of the pragmatic approach, the possibility of linking the renovation of roofs to, for example, the sustainability and the release of agricultural buildings. In any case, I will send a letter to the Chamber for the general consultation on external security held on 28 June containing information on the state of play on this pragmatic approach. I would also like to speak about Mr Smaling's motion, which calls on the government to take care of individuals with small asbestos roofs. In addition, Mrs Van Veldhoven asked that communication to private individuals should not be limited to small roofs, but that it should also be more widely communicated and that small amounts of asbestos should be reported on and around the home. I've taken over that motion. In the meantime, a tailor-made advice has been developed for the asbestos roof owner. That advice is on the website of Environment Centraal. This instrument will be extended to other asbestos applications this year. Other means of communication are also being developed, such as videos. In this way we are now actively engaged in bringing out what has been requested in the Smaling motion. Then the link to sustainability. Like I said, I see them too. More information about this is given to the Chamber in the letter. End of input first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u24	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her contribution in the first term and to continue immediately with the second term on the side of the Chamber. I call Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u25	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I'd like to file one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the coming years, approximately 10,000 people are expected to die as a result of the asbestos disease mesothelioma;]] [[Considering that the current possibilities for compensation are not sufficient to adequately compensate all victims and that, in addition to medical suffering, asbestos victims are also faced with legal suffering;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways of guaranteeing swift and complete compensation for victims without legal frontiers at the time when it has been established that mesothelioma is involved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u26	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State has shown her good will, but to support her a little bit, yet a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mesothelioma may continue to occur for 30 years after exposure;]] [[Whereas the main point of discussion at present is the limitation of the obligation to pay compensation for asbestos-related diseases;]] [[considers that recourse to limitation periods is not justified for asbestos victims and their survivors;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the members of the Institute of Asbestos Victims, to find a solution for limitation periods and, if necessary, to come up with legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u27	Mr. Chairman. I had prepared a motion on the linking of sustainability and asbestos rehabilitation, but I understand from the Secretary of State that we are getting a letter and that external safety is being discussed at the AO. We look forward to that letter and the debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u28	Mr Remco Dijkstra does not want to speak. I call Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u29	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. My first question was how is it possible that asbestos is still being tampered with. That question was not fully answered in the first term. Maybe the Secretary of State can say something about that. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for explaining the limitation period. We've prepared a modified motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands a limitation period of only 30 years applies, while international research shows that the average latency period is more than 40 years, and for the most recent group even more than 50 years;]] [[Considering that no less than 75% of asbestos victims are likely to fall between shore and ship due to a (short) limitation period because they are indeed ill but the damage has already been reduced in legal terms;]] [[noting that limitation period is the most common reason why mediation does not result in compensation for the victim;]] [[invites the Government to examine whether the limitation period should be extended by law if it appears that a covenant is not the appropriate means for that purpose, and to inform the Court of Justice of this at the same time as communicating the covenant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs, Mr Laçin, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Kröger and Mr Dik-Faber.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25834-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u30	Mr. Chairman. I shall first answer the question put by Mrs Van Eijs. It was about shuffling asbestos. Fortunately, we have an asbestos tracking system. In this way, we follow asbestos from clean-up to landfill. As mentioned above, a legal obligation for use is offered to the Chamber. We're really keeping a close eye on the moment something goes wrong. Then we'll be performing, too. I shall now turn to the motions that have been tabled, first of all to the Laçin motion on item No. 126. It calls on the government to examine ways of guaranteeing swift and complete compensation for victims without legal frontiers. I welcome the aim of the motion, but Mr Laçin says that the current arrangements are not sufficient. We do not agree on this. The schemes are assessed as positive and are sufficient. Of course, we still have a long discussion on the legal issue of labour-related compensation. I told the Chamber this was about the limitation period. However, that is another issue, so for that reason I must discourage this motion. Then I come to the motion-Von Martels on part number. 127 and the motion-Van Eijs c.s. in piece No. 128. To make a very long story short, both motions say the same thing: if it does not succeed with the covenant partners now, should there not be legislation? Once again, the Minister of SZW is negotiating on this issue. In our Civil Code, a limitation period is an existing legal means. If you want to put that out of operation by means of legislation, then that is a huge situation. I'm just gonna say it as flat as I can. Then the Chamber should at least want to discuss this with the minister responsible before it accepts or agrees to this motion. My request to the two proposers is: hold these motions, wait for the Minister to come back with the result in the summer or just afterwards, and then continue the debate on the options that still have to be followed if his mission has not been successful. If you're going to file the motion now, I'm going to have to give a ruling on that. But I really can't see what I'm gonna do. Nor do I think it is fair to my colleague, who is not here now and cannot say anything about it. Then I'm going to dissuade procedurally. I always do that in such a case, then you know it, even in the most sympathetic motions in the world. That's what I'm gonna do now. My request to both Mr von Martels and Mrs Van Eijs is: keep your motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u31	I understand your request. I hope that your colleague will see this as a support to regulate a great deal in particular. I also understand the request to hold the motion. We would then like to receive a letter from the Minister who is talking about this. You cannot, of course, undertake to do that, but we can express the wish here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u32	I'm sure he'll send you a letter as soon as he gets a result of his conversation with the covenant parties. That is also the first time you have to consider whether what comes out is sufficient, and if not, what you are going to do. Again, I think it would be wise not to ask me now something that you know should be with my colleague, who is currently negotiating on this issue. I'm sure I'll transfer the back support. I also think it is very good that the Chamber shows that it is serious. That helps him, too. If you tell him to make legislation anyway, regardless of whether that is possible and what significance that has, I say you should not do so. It's not just a back-up, it's an assignment. I always take an assignment very seriously. It just needs to be carried out. I have no idea if this is possible. I just don't know right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u33	Maybe I should have put it more clearly. I understand your point. I also understand the sentiment of a large part of the Chamber to want to settle this. I will continue the motion and hope for a letter from the Minister and expect to receive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u34	At the request of Mrs Van Eijs, I propose her motion (25834, No. 128). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u35	I'll ask for you. I think that's a fair trade, too, because it's really about something here. It is about the fact that all of us, I really want to say, believe that this limitation period should no longer play a role for the victims. There's really no difference of opinion between your Chamber and the Cabinet. Not a millimeter. In that sense, it is a good thing for the Chamber to say: make that covenant a good agreement, otherwise we will look further. That is how I will convey it, and I think the Minister will pass it on to the covenant partners in smells and colors. I promise you that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u36	Thank you. That was kind of an invitation to Mr von Martels to find something of his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u37	Yeah, and I'd like to get into that. Since Mrs Van Eijs' motion and mine are almost the same in terms of approach, I think it would be useful for us to merge these two motions and thus ask the Chamber to give further support to what the Secretary of State has said. In the words as Mrs Van Eijs has said: that letter is coming, and as far as I am concerned, that motion will stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u38	Then you'll arrest him, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u39	No, I would like my motion to be included in the motion tabled by Mrs Van Eijs. We have chosen about the same words. It makes no sense to table two motions with the same thrust, so I'm just looking for the best way to do that. Otherwise it's unnecessary, because they have the same intention and we have the same thing for them. The point is that what we are trying to achieve is what we are trying to achieve. I'm just trying to figure out how best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mr von Martels, you can either hold the motion or you can change the motion later, or you can do so outside the sitting. I'm just trying to figure out what you're doing with the motion. Will you keep her on and let her come back at a later date or would you like to put her to the vote? Those are actually the two flavors we have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u41	Then I'll keep her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u42	At the request of Mr von Martels, I propose his motion (25834, No. 127). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u43	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister of Social Affairs for a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u44	Then I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her second reply and come to the end of the discussions on the role of the government in relation to asbestos victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-12.u45	On the motion for a resolution tabled, only one is not being held. The vote will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber.
