ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery. Apologies for the late start of this debate. The debate for this ended. I know that a lot of people from Groningen have come here specifically to follow this debate. Once again, welcome. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Members of Parliament. I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. In Groningen, a disaster takes place in slow motion, with far too much human suffering for years. In the last week, there were four more tremors. We read in the newspaper that the company Engie of Economic Affairs and the highest judge can drill gas at Schiermonnikoog. But what does that company decide? To not do it. The NAM could take an example of this. The NAM can say from its own responsibility that the risks, damage and human suffering are too great and by itself bring down the gas extraction. What do we read in the statistics of the Central Bureau of Statistics? The fact that the Netherlands is exporting more gas this year than last year, despite all the fine words in this Chamber. Despite all the fine words of the VVD, the PvdA and the government, more gas is being exported. I would like the Minister for the Chamber to map out what we're doing right before the elections and a government formation, how you can step by step from the current gas extraction to 12 billion cubic metres. That is the level at which the supervisor says that the safety of the Groningers is reasonably in order. What does that mean in terms of contracts, what does that mean in terms of nitrogen incorporation and what does that mean for other houses? Then we can take an informed decision on that. There's no such plan. We only have the number. I'd like to hear from the Minister if he's prepared to map that out. That we should do something for Groningen and that this should be real, not only in words but also in deeds, everyone agrees on that. I share the powerlessness and despair of the Groningen people. That is also one of the reasons why, in addition to this, probably last appeal to this minister, I myself have a plan that I would like to tell the Groningers. I want to visit three Groningen families or individuals every week to offer them my help and see if we can fight through the bureaucracy together. I am thinking, for example, of the bakery family that was shown on Sunday evening in the KRO programme Crossroads, or of Mr Stapel, who sits here in the gallery, or of the family living in the crooked house in Slochteren. That family needs to get out of the cabin. She may be allowed to set up an emergency home, but she doesn't have any money for that. I want to do it politically, I want it in the coalition agreement. If that doesn't work out, I'm gonna go to Groningen myself for the Groningen team.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mrs Mulder, I see that you wish to interrupt, but I would suggest that Mrs Van Tongeren finish her speech first. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt. Please continue, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u4	Except in Groningen, we also have mining elsewhere. In Twente, the effects of oil extraction put man and the environment at risk. There, too, the Minister made a decision at the end of this cabinet, which will be valid for a period of six years, just as the current gas extraction has been established for five years. Here too, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared not to take irreversible decisions or to take steps on the injection of waste water into the Twente soil or elsewhere. Instead of being laid down now, a new cabinet can then take a decision on the matter with the information that is then on the table. In my last 30 seconds I want to pay attention to Brabant and elsewhere, where opportunities for shale gas are still being considered. Based, for example, on experiences in America, we know what bad environmental effects that can have. Everything that is found and fossil must basically remain underground. Isn't it wise to include in the Structure Vision Underground that all sustainable applications of the subsurface.... think also of water extraction... take precedence over possible fossil applications of the subsurface?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u5	Like GroenLinks, the CDA believes that gas extraction should be further down. That is why, in the debate on mining in September last year, I advocated building a nitrogen plant, which would require 5 billion to 7 billion cubic tons of less gas. Then you move very quickly towards the 12 billion cube that Mrs Van Tongeren calls here. Does she also see this as a good opportunity to accelerate the release of the gas from Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u6	That is a very clear and fair question. We find each other on that point, on reducing gas consumption. This is exactly why I am asking this question. Based on what I know, I suspect it's possible without that nitrogen factory. If we really stop with new export contracts and if we do everything we can to get rid of gas, my party has been working on this for some time now, and on some points also supported by the CDA, we might be able to do without that million-dollar investment in a nitrogen plant that you would hopefully only use for a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u7	Does Mrs Van Tongeren of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance think that this information should be sent to the House of Representatives before the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u8	That's exactly my call to the cabinet. We need clarity on the steps you should take if you want to reduce the gas extraction towards 12 cubic metres. Is that possible? How many contracts are we talking about? How much does it cost to break it open? If mixing nitrogen is the only solution, what would it cost? What can we do on the other hand to get Dutch cities and industry, if it is running on Groningen gas, off that gas as quickly as possible? We need to know that in order to be able to make decisions about this in the new cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. A week ago, Groningen went into the street massively. The earthquakes and all the fuss around them have cut deep into it. It's even psychologically really bothering people. It gnaws at their health. Groningen is asking for an end to the political squabbling. That's a very fair call. I therefore say the following to Groningen. All parties in this Chamber, from left to right, want a better future for you. That's why I'm not gonna promise you everything I'm gonna do on my own today. I'm gonna promise you I'm gonna commit to that unit. We must take this above the political parties. We must work together to solve this problem, because it is a joint responsibility. There's a lot to do. That is why I hope that in the second term we will be able to show with one motion that we are all behind you. There's a lot to do. The damage must be paid generously, fairly and quickly without people being saddled with piles of paperwork and reports, and again. The cost is high, which means that this money does not end up in the hands of those who should, namely residents. The settlement of damages must be independent. It must be independent of the NAM. Make it the responsibility of the National Coordinator Groningen. If the motion I have tabled has already been carried out, I would ask the Minister to do so. What steps have been taken in this respect? Backup's finally starting. Let us make this process as simple as possible. People sometimes get the damage experts first, then the people from the damage treatment, then the inspection and then the people from the reinforcements on the floor. Can't we just take care of everything for these people at once? The reinforcement call turns out to be much bigger than we thought. All the houses that have been looked at so far, I repeat: all the houses that have been looked at so far must be reinforced. That goes for every house they went by. The differences are so large that a lot of customization is needed. In the extraction plan the agreement was that the houses would be strengthened with risk within five years. This agreement must, of course, be kept. Where there are risks, we must find a solution very quickly. Can the Minister confirm that the five-year period will continue to apply and that it will continue to apply from the extraction plan and not from the inspection? Otherwise, it will take years for all houses to be safe. I'd like to get a confirmation. Then the height of the gas extraction. All Groningers must be as safe as any other resident of the Netherlands; it is as simple as that in the end. For this, gas extraction will also have to go further down. We don't know exactly what a safe level is yet. The Minister knows less winning is better. We need to reduce that dependency that we have now as quickly as possible. We prefer to do this through energy savings and sustainable alternatives, so that we are really ready for the future. Is the Minister prepared to draw up a plan to reduce gas extraction? The Groningen economy is also suffering from the earthquake. In this respect, too, additional reinforcement is needed. What about the development fund? Money has also been made available for this purpose. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether the climate institute could be located in Groningen? Of course, it would be very nice if we could start in 'the fossil province' with the reversal and show that things have to be different. I have a few brief questions on other mining issues. With regard to the water injections in Schoonebeek, the Minister wants to leave everything to the past, because the treatment techniques are not yet sufficiently advanced, but of course that will never happen if there is no incentive to do so. Is the Minister prepared to oblige NAM to continue research into better alternatives and to set up a pilot for water treatment? In Limburg too, mining has left deep traces. Can the Minister confirm that, if it has been proven that damage is caused by the rising mining water and the stopping of the pumps, the mining damage is simply compensated? In the very last few seconds of my speaking time, I too am very pleased to see today that the possibility of drilling in the Wadden Sea is not being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u10	I do not want to get into a mess; in that respect, therefore, I fully agree with Mrs van Veldhoven's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u11	Good!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u12	But in her contribution to gas extraction, she said that it is not yet clear what a safe level is. The question is, when can you determine that? The former boss of the SodM, State surveillance of the Mines, has said that 12 is generally accepted as a safe level. The current director says 24 is safe, but only if all houses are reinforced and earthquake-proof. I would therefore like to invite Mrs Van Veldhoven to set a desirable level, because otherwise the commitment to the people of Groningen will remain very much above the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u13	I think my commitment is crystal clear and has always been crystal clear. My commitment has always been the same. As soon as we have more information that points out that gas extraction needs to be further reduced, gas extraction will go further down to that level. If the one Inspector General of the SodM says it should be 12 and if the next one withdraws it, you can't say that all reports indicate that it should be 12. I don't want to preview people. I want to make a promise that I will always say: if we know that it has to go further down to a certain level to do it safely, we're going to do it. First, the gas extraction was 49. Then she went down to 33. There were parties who then tabled motions in 30, because that would be the safe level. We now know that it has to go further down to make it safer. Eventually, the SodM recommended 27, but just to be safe, we sat down at 24. If there's information that shows that this has to go further down and then if the experts put a number on it, we're going to do it. This security and security of supply are the framework conditions that allow us to bring this down to zero in a credible way step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u14	In 20 years, the gas will be on it. How long are we going to wait until we are told what that safe level is? Then we would wait for something that we know will not come soon, because this man-made situation is not found anywhere else worldwide. So you have to take care of it. Then you sit at the low level that has previously been established to be safe and where not the whole area, with already 1,450 houses, must be strengthened before one can feel safe. I would therefore expect a little more explicit and less woolly language from Mrs Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u15	If the precautionary principle is serious, Mr Smaling must go to zero now, but then there are also people in the cold. I give people who now want to know what politics is going to do, the same answer as I have given all those times. If I have proof that we have to lower it further... I'm not gonna be an expert myself. I want the experts to report this. State surveillance of the mines has always been our guiding principle. If the State surveillance of the mines comes up with a report showing that it has to go to 18 or to 10, we're gonna do it. However, I do not intend to make a totem pole of 12 now or, if you really go through Mr Smaling's line, of 0. I'm not gonna make people promises I can't prove with underlying scientific evidence. But I promise we'll do this, if there's any evidence. Their safety is paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u16	Does the fraction of D66 think it's safe now for the Groningen people in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u17	I can answer that I am following the judge right now. The judge has previously ruled on a number of occasions that the extraction has to go further down. My group is absolutely following such a statement, because if an expert body makes that statement, we will follow it. When the SodM said that the level should go further down, we also followed that instance. If the SodM said it should go down again, we'll follow the SodM in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u18	As far as D66 is concerned, extraction can therefore remain at the current level until the SodM advises otherwise. So right now, D66 thinks it's safe enough until the SodM says it needs to go further down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u19	I can only say that Mrs Van Tongeren has no message to say about the call not to get bogged down in politics, and I am very sorry about that. Today we can convey the common message that we really take this seriously. That's why I'm just gonna say it again: once there's proof that it has to go further down, that's what we're gonna do. Mrs Van Tongeren also knows very well that D66 is so in it, because we have done so over and over again. I really regret this, because I would have liked to have shown with Mrs Van Tongeren that we are not here to score a point for our own party, but that we are here together to show Groningen that we see this as a problem and that we are working together to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u20	This isn't about scoring points. This is about the safety of the Groningen people, and I have a very simple question: does D66 think it's safe now? Are we waiting for the advice of the SodM? That is what I thought was part of the answer to Mr Smaling's question, so I will check that it is. Is Mrs Van Veldhoven herself saying, on the basis of what she knows now, that she thinks it should go further down, or is she waiting for the SodM? I think she said yes to that. That is a substantive question, not a political one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mrs van Tongeren will all see this tomorrow in our electoral programme and in the pass-through. We will also take financial account of a further reduction. We believe that this can never be an argument for not going down any further. We do not produce gas for the treasury, even if we need less gas. We have therefore proposed a very comprehensive package of energy saving measures. I have also put forward initiatives for this on several occasions, as Mrs Van Tongeren well knows. On all sides we have to reduce our dependence on that gas, and then the production in Groningen continues to decline. If there are any interim reports from the SodM, we'll take that into account. There are, of course, indications that we should now take account of the fact that gas extraction needs to be further reduced. Yeah, I've seen those clues, too. I take it very seriously, and that is why we reserve money for this. But it goes too far for me to say already that it has to go to this or that level. I haven't seen the advice of the SodM on this. I'd like to wait for that advice to set the level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u22	I think it really listens very closely to people who are very deeply in the misery and who look at The Hague and hear words that are not at all in line with what they need. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, it has not yet been proven that their safety is paramount. To that end, I have a question for D66. If Mrs Van Veldhoven believes that safety must be at the forefront, is it not wise to start from a zero situation, where we do not gain gas at all? We can all conclude from that that is the safest level. That's the starting point for your scenarios and every cubic meter you win, you have to build on the need that is still alive at the moment, because we are still dependent on gas in the Netherlands. You then use your security position as a starting point and you defend why you should still want to win a certain level. That's different from the way we're reasoning right now, where you have to argue security as an argument to get the level down a little bit. I think that is the crucial point that makes a difference for the Groningen people as to whether or not their safety is paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u23	I find Mrs Ouwehand's reasoning rather charming. Of course, we don't have a greenfield situation and that makes it difficult. We have made agreements that make people in Germany dependent on our gas. But the principle that you don't win more than you need is actually the translation of what I mean when I say we're not going to produce for the treasury. So if we need less, we wouldn't have to win it. That is why we must also focus on reducing demand. Then we can also say that it can go further down, and that we will. It is therefore not just a question of security of supply, but also of security of supply. This means that if there is less demand for it and we can do less, we will also win less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u24	I like it because it listens so closely. If we take that approach, we will, of course, also face dilemmas. That is why I ask D66 to support us in this. We can't go to zero tomorrow, because we'll have big problems. I think the people in Groningen understand that, too. But clarify the dilemmas and make sure that safety is paramount. If you want to win 12 billion cubs, you have to make it very clear why that is necessary. If we don't have to, we're not gonna do it. It is therefore an approach from the other side. It would be worth a sweet thing to us if today we could decide to do that from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u25	I do think we should explain very well why we win what we win. I share that with Mrs Ouwehand. The fact that we win has a huge impact on these people. I've taken those effects seriously from the very beginning. Mrs Ouwehand knows that, too. We've spent a lot of time in that together. We really have a lot of effect on people's immediate living conditions. We really need to be able to explain to them why we are doing what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. For almost four years we have been debating the extraction of gas in Groningen and the handling of the damage caused by this gas extraction. In those four years, the Chamber has filed hundreds of motions to reduce gas extraction and improve damage disposal. Most of these motions were broadly supported in the Chamber, but rejected by the PvdA and the VVD. "It's all okay." "We need to look into it more closely." "What are these people whining about, it's going well?" In the very first debate on Groningen, the PVV immediately drew attention to two points: 100% compensation for all existing cases, say a kind of general pardon, and a buyout scheme for people who want to leave the area. It is still difficult for many people to obtain normal compensation. There are so many bodies and parties involved that a large part of the money does not go to the compensation and resolution of the damage but to administrative costs for all parties that do their best to make matters as complicated as possible. A whole bureaucracy has been rigged, but many affected families are still in a damaged home. Four years after the first debate, four years of civil service, four years of denial and look away. The December letter shows that of the 1,450 houses inspected 1,450 need to be strengthened. So it's not easy, it's all very disappointing. When have these inspected houses been strengthened, I ask the Minister. Following endless pressure from the PVV, there has been a very limited buying-out scheme for distressing cases. 37 families who fulfilled all the conditions of the buy-out scheme could not benefit from this scheme. My motion to allow these families to qualify was voted down by the VVD and the PvdA; a sad low. The National Coordinator Groningen also abandoned these people. While there was no money left for a buy-out scheme, the coordinator has made 68 million euros available for the Groninger Forum, of which he was the chairman for his role as National Coordinator. Recently there have been several actions to draw attention to the earthquake problem in Groningen, culminating in last week's massive torch tour. Many of the points in the petition come directly from previous motions of the PVV in the Lower House and the Provincial States, which were voted away. It goes without saying that we wholeheartedly support the points made in the petition. That's why we're also signing a motion that I think is carried Chamber-wide. We call on the Minister to make maximum haste to deal with the damage, to make maximum haste to strengthen housing and public buildings and to speed up the reduction of natural gas extraction and the establishment of a buy-out scheme. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the other items on the agenda. A package of measures for the region has now been agreed as regards the mining damage in Limburg. How are we doing on this? Furthermore, the wastewater injection continues to concern people in Twente. What I find curious is the huge cost difference between the report by Royal HaskoningDHV, for which Salttech provided data, and Salttech's claim that it is ten times too expensive. What's the deal with that? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr. Chairman. I watched the silent quake on Sunday night. This symbol symbolizes all the Groningers affected by the gas extraction. That movie's not gonna get you in cold clothes. People of Groningen have huge problems they haven't asked for. They just have to wait and often nothing happens. Even today, many inhabitants still have the experience that they have to compete against large mining giants. Instead of the government being independent and supporting them, they find the government against them. More than 70,000 damage reports and many of them have become ill. There are rightful protests in the province and also here today. Any extra attention and involvement from the rest of the country with Groningen does me good. The CDA wants the Groningers to be as safe as the people in the rest of the Netherlands. We all know that this is why gas extraction will have to go further back. In September last year, to our great regret, the majority of VVD and PvdA committed gas extraction for several years to 24 billion cubic metres. Now that the electoral programmes are ready, it has become clear that almost all parties want to speed up the reduction of gas extraction. And that is what the CDA considers very important because if the Groningen gas bubble had been under The Hague, the extraction would have been shut down a long time ago. During the debate in September last year, I indicated, on behalf of the CDA, how this reduction in gas production could be further achieved: by building additional conversion capacity and accelerating the conversion of industry. As a result, we can reach less Groningen gas by 8 billion cubic metres. I would like to hear from colleagues and Minister Kamp how they see the phasing-out in concrete terms. It must also be said that the contracts with NAM and abroad will have to go further. Minister Kamp must send the planned phasing-out to the Lower House as soon as possible. In the meantime, we are also waiting for the reinforcement of the houses. The inspections will take much longer than promised. Only 1,500 homes were inspected in 2016, while 22,000 houses should have been inspected and strengthened by 2020. What is the Minister going to do to speed this up? Will the now inspected homes that need to be strengthened also be offered a generous package for strengthening and sustainability? What's the relationship between what people get paid out and the research? He's completely lost, isn't he? How is the Minister going to change that? As far as he's concerned, is there any kind of general pardon for damage? Is the law for independent damage treatment also about reinforcements? Where is the independent knowledge programme that will also monitor the group risk calculation of the NAM and the best distribution? This should have been there by the end of 2016. Finally about Groningen: we want Groningen to become the energy province of the future. Let us invest in sustainability where the transition is most needed. A knowledge institute is part of this. How nice it would be if a village like Onderdendam would be gas-free within five years. We are talking about concrete and tangible changes, which offer a perspective to this precious region. The CDA is dissatisfied with the decision to continue the waste water injection in Twente. There are great concerns for the population. The CDA would like a pilot for wastewater treatment. Otherwise, we'll never make it through. Is the Minister prepared to launch a pilot for purification as a condition for this mining activity? We've had an evaluation. Now is the time to make those conditions. Then there is the damage caused by coal mining in Limburg. The CDA wants all the damage compensated. Will the Minister finally reimburse the requests made? Those people who wait and wait. How's the Minister gonna do that? Last year we received a commitment from the Minister on zero measurements for buildings in mining activities. Can the Minister promise the CDA that tilt meters will also be used? You could start with the small gas field at Oppenhuizen in Friesland. I'd like an answer from the Minister. Finally, I come to the salt extraction by AkzoNobel in Twente. AkzoNobel doesn't have the right place for each other and doesn't intervene until the State surveillance of the Mines rings the bell. What are the consequences for AkzoNobel for keeping the leakage first under the hat and not reporting it? How are we going to ensure the integrity of old wells and pipes in Twente and elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u28	With regard to Twente, the CDA and GroenLinks have often joined forces. Does the CDA also support the idea that we should actually reduce the cause of the whole problem, i.e. the marginal oil extraction in Schoonebeek? If you stop doing that, you'll also lose the wastewater injection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u29	In recent years, the CDA has always focused on waste water treatment; so does Mrs Van Tongeren. The permits for oil extraction there have just been issued, but we can still steer from the Lower House in the way in which waste water is handled. For example, waste water can be reused after treatment. We need to take action on that. The big problem in Twente is that those permits were forgiven at the time. We can't get that now, but we can make sure that we change the permits. There's been an evaluation. I'm sure the Minister will say something about that later. You might want to put the pilot as a condition. At least it seems to me that we should. As far as the waste water injections are concerned, we know that there is more waste water than available soil to inject it. The problem is already big, so please let's solve it another way. I know I can find GroenLinks on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u30	Does the CDA, like GroenLinks, think that we should open up the new possibility of injecting waste water for a period of six years? Shouldn't there be a condition? Should this not be an annual or at least biennial regime instead of such a long six-year period? We see everywhere in the mining industry that over such a period you can't really see the consequences. I hope that the CDA GroenLinks will also support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u31	Of course, otherwise we won't be looking at waste water treatment. If it's a big success and the pilot turns out to be working, you don't let it get pumped into the ground for years. Of course, that cannot be the intention. I think we can find each other very well on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u32	Mr. Chairman. Over the last three years, I have had the opportunity to speak on behalf of the SP on the situation in Groningen. That is honorable in itself, but it was not satisfactory at all. Last week's massive torch parade shows where we stand, after all these years: 5,000 people walked through Groningen in the bitter cold. Today an elementary school in Loppersum is being demolished and I hear there has just been another quake in Kropswolde. The Chamber has not succeeded in getting enough momentum in it. The Minister has dissuaded or badly executed many opposition motions. I remember motions about tilt meters. Where are they? There would be a large independent research program, but I haven't seen any of that yet. There would be a speedy pace for the reinforcement, but it does not really want to succeed. Both the VVD and the PvdA followed the minister very closely in the initial phase. Only after the punishment at the Provincial State elections did the PvdA choose its own path. As a result, we were able to rebuild the Mining Act, but the Minister deliberately delayed its entry into force. Meanwhile, there have been countless trials, far too many lawsuits, all of which would not have been necessary if we had operated more effectively. My frustration is due to a number of things. For example, since 2003, we can see that the tremors are increasing, in frequency and in peaks. Nobody did anything. No one intervened. 2003, Mr Rutte! That wasn't a few years ago; that was a long time ago. The Minister always stresses that he has halved the level of extraction after initially raising it to unacceptable levels in 2013. That's what's bothering me. What has also disturbed me very much is the damage protocols drawn up by the NAM itself, with completely out of the blue A-, B- and C-damages, the endless discussions about what is or is not a quake damage, a contour card that is used for which it is not intended, the Safe Living Centre, which is one-on-one linked to the NAM, the National Coordinator, who has to go to the minister or to the NAM, good counter-expertise agencies, such as Vergnes Expertise in Leek, who are driven into bankruptcy by the NAM, and all those commissions and clubs that Arjen Lubach manages to put his head above. Fortunately, over the last few years, I have been able to contact a lot of people in the area. I call Pieter Stapel with his little church on the Woldendorpse terp with the convex outer wall. All his plans, they'll never be realized. I mention all the C-damage people in Woldendorp who have shown me their walls, Hiltje Zwartberg with his curved house in Termunterzijl and Elze Schollema and his wife, garage owners in Usquert, a place where many people could find problems. Meanwhile the garage is closed, Elze himself is sick and he sits with the dog downstairs at night instead of being in bed. I also mention the brave farmer Nijhoff with his fled wife, owners of De Wonerie in Loppersum, who saw across the street that companies from outside the quake area were getting the jobs. I also mention last Sunday's bakery couple in the broadcast of Crossroads, our friends and their Dutch teacher in the terpdorp Rottum, where we have been several times. Every year we see them again. Every year they're still desperate. I wish everyone in Helm, Harkstede, Oosternieland and wherever I've been, strength. Often these people have repeat damage. That repeat damage makes people even more unhappy. And Annemarie Heite, woman, how you've been working for Groningen! The movie The silent quake is already a monument. I'll ask the Minister if he's seen him and, if so, what he thought of the movie. Three issues are a priority for the SP Group in the near future, even when it comes to discussing the formation of a new government. Firstly, at the end of the next cabinet period, gas extraction should continue down to 12 billion m. The SP has included in the financial picture a provision to realize that. Secondly, the NAM must be removed once and for all from the damage handling and reinforcement operation. Thirdly, people must be able to leave. Let them choose between buy-out, earthquake-proof new construction or reinforcement. We need a fund to make this possible. Today, the Chamber will table a joint motion. That is a good thing, but as far as my group is concerned, we need to go a little further and get close to the petition and the nine-point plan of Freek de Jonge. This is probably the last time I have discussed this issue with the Minister. We landed in Loppersum on the top 30 of our list of candidates two weeks ago. At least all the new members of the SP who will soon be sitting here will have gas extraction in their heads. That is perhaps the good news for those who want to join the SP after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u33	You'll be back in the Chamber, I presume, Mr. Smaling?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u34	That depends on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u35	It seemed like a farewell speech, but that was not the intention. I give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr. Chairman. Last week we walked in the torch ride against the gas extraction in Groningen. The ChristenUnion is located next to the Groningers, both in the province house and here in The Hague. For years my colleague Carla Dik-Faber has fought for the Groningers. Today I am allowed to speak for her. Gas extraction in Groningen is probably the most discussed topic of the past four years. The question is what brought this to the people of Groningen. I see the extraction of gas has been reduced after court rulings. There are also the National Coordinator, free arbitrators, a reinforcement programme for the schools and a appreciation scheme. Moreover, there is a heritage programme in the making. These are all steps in the right direction, but at the same time the National Coordinator has insufficient mandate, the housing reinforcement programmes are slow, extremely slow, and the NAM is still too close to the process of damage handling. But most importantly, the people in Groningen are tired. They're tired. They're fighting an unequal battle. The Prime Minister called the gas file in the media a national matter. I agree with him. Can the Minister indicate what he thinks it means that the extraction of gas and its consequences are a national matter? The people of Groningen believe that the Empire has not sufficiently exercised its duty of care and that the Empire should take a much more active role. Does the Minister share this view? The government owes credit to the people in Groningen. The mining decision shall apply for a period of five years. We have agreed that there will be one broad motion, but it can go much further from the Christian Union. We would like an annual review. The extraction decision is based on the assumption that all housing in the area will be strengthened in five years' time, but the National Coordinator's multiannual programme already shows that this will not be possible within five years, and probably not even within ten years. In this way, the mining decision on the Christian Union is once again under discussion. We advocate a phasing-out plan with 21 billion cubic metres in 2018, and then quickly to zero in the end. There is still discussion about the position of the NAM in damages handling and the independence of the National Coordinator. The Chamber unanimously adopted a motion on this matter and the Minister is now working on a legislative proposal. When are people in Groningen gonna notice this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u37	Can we agree that small damages are simply compensated, because the emotional and administrative burden is disproportionate to the cost of this? The Christian Union also wants to see a legal aid fund, because many people in Groningen are limited in their access to justice. The province is taking part proactively. A motion has been passed, and now the Empire must come to terms with it. I see Minister Kamp as the minister responsible for this. Does he want to make an effort to create a legal aid fund? One of the promises was that local entrepreneurs would be involved in the settlement of damages. In practice, that does not appear to be the case. Local contractors still do not have fair access to work in the earthquake zone. The work in the region has virtually stopped for the local contractors, and we are talking about redundancies. Also, the wishes of disabled residents with a preference for a specific local contractor are simply ignored by the Centrum Secure Living. What's the Minister gonna do about this? I'm rounding up. Gas extraction is not the only issue in Groningen. Also in Woerden, in Assen and in so many other places people are worried because there are plans to exploit gas fields. The Christian Union considers that there are no new oil or gas extraction locations after the Paris climate agreement. We must now make every effort for more clean energy and Groningen is willing to become a frontrunner in the energy transition. If there's any sense of urgency, it's there. Therefore, set up the national knowledge centre energy transition in Groningen! The Christian Union asks the Minister to take this glove up as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u38	Good ideas usually have multiple fathers and mothers. The legal aid fund referred to here by the Christian Union resonated with me, because a motion has been passed, the Christian Union has also voted in favour of setting up such a fund and an amendment has then been tabled to the EZ budget. There too, the Christian Union voted in favour. Does the Christian Union think that the amount contained in it should be raised? Two tonnes are now available to conduct a first set of trial processes. Does the Christian Union think that that amount should be raised?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u39	Yes, we think that the amount should be raised, but we also see a second problem that Groningers really has to deal with, namely that there are not enough experts to be able to rely on quake-damaged people, so that the rights of all the victims could be better protected. In addition to the need for more money, there is also a need for more lawyers to assist people. Those people need to defend their own cause right now. We need lawyers who can assist the inhabitants of Groningen and who can provide a good counterweight to the enormous power of CVW and NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr. Chairman. How much injustice can a man endure? If you didn't know better, you'd almost think that Groningen is an experiment to see exactly what people's carrying capacity is. Your house is broken because there have been earthquakes because of the gas extraction. And then you're gonna have to scream and moan for damages. All the time you have to live in fear because the gas extraction has been reduced so little. Can you rely on the government that promised you that your safety will be paramount from now on? If a government thinks so, it must act on the precautionary principle. Then she has to say, okay, we've made a lot of mistakes, and we can't solve the misery we've caused overnight. After all, a long period of rehabilitation will be needed for everyone in Groningen. Then the government must tell the Groningers: we stop the automatism that we're getting gas out of your soil. We start by applying the precautionary principle, and for every cube of gas we would like to win, we have to have a very good story, because the safety of our people is more important. The Animal Party had no confidence in it when the cabinet said two years ago that security would be paramount. It still doesn't seem to be at the forefront. We had to force the Minister to reverse the burden of proof. Now he makes nice decorations with it in a press release, but it didn't go by itself. And even then, the NAM still stops a lot of damages. Is the Minister prepared to announce a general pardon for all current cases, so that the people can be taken care of? In his letter on the strengthening and sustainability of houses, the Minister is unabatedly optimistic. We really don't understand that. All the houses that have been inspected so far will have to be dealt with. This applies to all houses that have been inspected! So there is a good chance that the thousands of buildings that have not yet been inspected will all need reinforcement. It's too slow. What conclusions does the Minister draw from the fact that inspection and computing capacity are simply far too small? A lot of people feel like they're locked up in their unsellable house. The Animal Party believes that there should be a more generous buy-out scheme for people who cannot leave. Two years ago, a well-founded and solid report from the Security Research Council appeared. Shell and Exxon have successfully determined the policy to their advantage. The interests of the treasury were above the interests of a safe housing environment of Dutch citizens. The so-called gas building had to make a big effort to put an end to this conflict of interest. Where are we two years later? The Minister conducts confidential talks with Shell and Exxon about the future classification of the gas building. That cannot be all the Minister has done in two years with one of the most important recommendations of the Research Council. The decision on how to arrange gas extraction in the future has been taken with Shell and Exxon at the table. We need to have a guarantee that gas extraction decisions will be taken independently from now on. Shell and Exxon will figure it out. People's safety has been at risk for years. The Animal Party believes that gas extraction should go down as soon as possible, in addition to solving the problems of today. People need to be helped and cared for. The burden on them is truly indefenable. Moreover, we will have to learn from how it has come to this. Groningen's still in trouble for a while. We can't stop that. However, we can do everything we can to make it clear that we believe that the safety of Groningers is paramount. That hasn't turned out to be the case. We will have to learn from the mistakes that have been made. The Animal Party has previously tabled a motion for a parliamentary inquiry. We shall put it to the vote after this debate. I believe the Christian Union likes to sign with us. Anyone who wants to is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. Today we have a debate on mining; that is how it is on our agenda. The word "mining" is almost a term that comes from the history books. What does not come out of the history books, however, is the misery that people in Groningen are in at the moment, thanks to the gas extraction, thanks to mining. The fear and insecurity come back again and again in the debates in the House of Representatives. It's terrible when you live there and feel that and when you can't be safe in your own home. That is what we all, human beings, politics, have caused, in our drive for fossil fuels, to win natural gas. To get right to the point, a petition from Freek de Jonge and many others is currently circulating on the internet. The numerator of the number of people who signed that petition is running up almost by the minute. At the moment, more than 60,000 people have signed this petition. The Labour Party, with almost all the parties in the House of Representatives, supports the points mentioned in that petition: a phasing-out plan to stop gas extraction quickly, the reversal of the burden of proof that we have achieved here in the Chamber per amendment with force, a buy-out scheme for anyone who wants to leave the area, a separation of gas and state, a general-pardon for the damage and a delta plan for the province so that sustainable energy can be gained, so that the economy and social structure of the province can get a face-to-face again, people can look forward and have fun in their lives. For decades, we've known that natural gas extraction is causing earthquakes. Mr Smaling has just said it while we are debating it: a 1.6 quake on the Richter scale. The Netherlands has benefited from natural gas for years, but Groningers are in misery. The Labour Party wants all current damage cases to be helped quickly and well. For that they will have to be taken out of the hands of the NAM. The current structure is not good, the NAM has a too thick finger in the porridge. The National Coordinator should be able to use its perseverance power for the complex cases. He needs to be able to solve those cases that haven't been solved yet. The arbitrators, also established by this Chamber, are doing a very good job at the moment, but there are still people falling between the shore and the ship. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to this. A lot happened after Huizinge. The misery is great and will last for years to come. I am very pleased and grateful that today we can leave the political chopping behind us in this Chamber and, if it is right, we will be able to take one position together with one motion. I am very grateful for that and that is something we have learned from each other. In any case, I have learned how to solve it together rather than fight each other over the small political points. The Labour Party would like to do justice to what happened in Groningen. We have made hundreds of billions and we must now help the people who are in the misery forever. It can't go on like this. That's my appeal to this cabinet. I also ask the Minister whether it is not true that he should say, looking back, that in those four years I have not acted hard enough, I have not gone fast enough. How do you look at that yourself, I ask the Minister? I see an interruption coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u42	Yeah, me too, but I'd like you to finish your story first. You have nineteen seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u43	There are two other points that I would like to make briefly. Today it became known that there is no gas drilling at Schiermonnikoog. Engie has decided very wisely not to. That decision was also taken, of course, because we in the House of Representatives adopted a new mining law and because it is not possible at all to drill under that new mining law. That is also one of the points that we have been able to achieve together. I would like to make a few comments on Limburg. We thank the Minister for his letter of 15 December. This area too has not received proper attention for a very long time. We are pleased that the Minister has announced a package of measures together with the province and the municipalities, but we would like to see wider access to the calamities fund. When can the Minister provide further information?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u44	I don't think Groningen's had much trouble with politics. I think that Groningen has suffered from the fact that politics has not put their interests first, but has promised it half and half. Politics was not true of what was said in this Chamber, namely that security should be paramount. I am a little afraid that the unity that the Labour Party and others are looking for, of course, I appreciate it; it is good that elections are on the way, because then something happens and the proposals that we are now presenting to the Minister are too little concrete. As a result, we run the risk that the expectations raised by the Groningen people will not be met again. I would like to ask Mr Vos how keen his input to the Minister is on the reduction of gas extraction and the other points he proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u45	My input towards the Minister is as sharp as it has always been. I would also like to remind Mrs Ouwehand that we have known since 1993 that gas extraction is causing damage, but that gas extraction has been phased out since 2012, since the inspection said that it is no longer possible to do so. We have also noted that things are not moving fast enough, but Mrs Ouwehand has had discussions with me and with all the other parties over and over again in which we have had the Minister and the Cabinet, because it is not just this minister but the whole cabinet that had to push under before the extraction went down. I was pleased that we managed to do that, but I also found that all this struggle eventually gave the impression that we were more involved than with the province. So that didn't go well. We have achieved a great deal when it comes to dealing with damage. We've established the arbitrators here with each other. We've reversed the burden of proof. Mrs Ouwehand and I proposed this together by amendment. But is it enough? Did it go fast enough? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u46	I understand that the Labour Party wants to frame it a bit like that, but I do not think that Groningers really had any problems with the fact that there were parties here who said to the two rulers: more needs to be done! Even if we had used swear words, I still think the Groningers would have liked that fight for their interests. I am now afraid that the motion which the Labour Party is about to table, in which the Chamber makes a number of statements in the direction of the Cabinet, is too non-binding. For example: the NAM must be removed from the processing process. We already know that the Minister has put forward a bill on this matter. That's in the Council of State now. The Minister says: I am going to strengthen public participation in this. That's not the same as: the NAM goes out. Does the Labour Party want to give the Minister a clear mandate today, so that there will be no more confusion and no more half promises in the direction of Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u47	I understand Mrs Ouwehand's concern. That's actually mine, too. Of course, we have been standing here together for four years in 122 debates, almost all of which went for a bit about Groningen, pushing and pulling to improve things. We note after four years that the situation has not improved enough. I suggest that I also look at the motion with Mrs Ouwehand in a moment to make it as clear as possible so that we can get what she and I want, namely that the NAM gets out of the way and pays the bill but that she doesn't have a finger in her mouth every time the damage is determined and that she doesn't slow down the process, leaving people in trouble instead of solving the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u48	It is good that Mr Vos is calling for a phasing-out plan. We can support that as a Christian Union. Is the PvdA also willing to draw the ultimate consequence? Perhaps the phasing-out plan is contrary to the current five-year mining decision. The ultimate consequence is that, when the phasing-out plan comes, we say: then the initial five-year extraction decision must be withdrawn, because we are going down faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u49	As I know, the current plan includes an annual review. We have always said together: when it is possible to reduce extraction a little further, or when it is necessary from the point of view of security to reduce extraction immediately, we are all here in this Chamber, of course, to demand it from the cabinet immediately, if the cabinet has not taken these measures itself. The extraction must be down, it must be down as soon as possible, but it must be possible. I think we all agree on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u50	If we realise that the extraction decision has been taken for five years under the assumption that five years later all houses would have been reinforced, and we now know that this is not the case, then that means that the extraction decision can be repealed and that we are going to review and evaluate year after year and that we may be going down faster. Could that be part of the new phasing-out plan for the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u51	The annual review is already included in the current mining decision. The reinforcement of the houses is of course another point about which you almost pull the hair out of your head. Backup's behind. I think you can only see that the promises on that point have not been fulfilled. So we're gonna have to take that much better. I have also carefully studied the report of the National Coordinator on this point. He's got a lot going on there. A lot is also being done, but it can be more, faster and better. I believe that my colleague from the CDA has already referred to the fact that almost every house inspected needs to be strengthened. This is characteristic of the extent of the misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u52	I'm gonna pick this up. Mr Vos says that we have to look annually to see if extraction can be reduced, but has the PvdA made provision in the figures sent to the CPB for reduced natural gas benefits? If so, what is the amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u53	The natural gas benefits are exogenous, so we do not take them into account in the budget. You know that, too. We've never done that in the past. In any case, the Chamber has always advocated this security, and at some point it has demanded it even by way of a motion from the Cabinet. It also forced the NAM to include this safety in the extraction plan, because that had not yet been done at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u54	That doesn't make it clear yet, but okay. Looking back on the last four years for me, it was three years before I noticed a shift in our relationship. That's what I'm gonna say. I have the impression that the Labour Party at first voted a lot of motions for what it might have been in its heart for. Now I see a Labour Party that is much more involved with the opposition. I even see Mr Van Dekken, Mr Nijboer and Mr Asscher walking around in the silent quake. If you didn't know better, you'd think it was a PvdA promotional device. How come the Labour Party has changed its mind and behaviour over the years and why aren't you in that movie?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u55	Everyone plays their part in life and I think my role was mainly to translate the misery in Groningen into something the minister could and had to take action on. I think that, in the end, this has been very successful and that in the first period a lot of indoors have happened, which perhaps in the first instance did not generate the admiration of the people of Groningen. I'm expressing it very euphemistically now. Later we brought out that lake. In that first period of course we also agreed with each other that we really wanted the Netherlands to be properly governed once. If you ask me what I did and if that was right, I say that this cabinet, under very great pressure from this Chamber, has made us all a cover. If you zoom out and look at what happened in 20 years' time, you can say: that was the moment that we went off fossil, that the crane closed in Groningen, that half of the coal power stations were closed and that we were moving towards sustainable. Mistakes have been made in that process, but things have also gone well. If you ask me whether I have gone from a little more right to a little left, I say that it is undeniable that the colour of the Labour Party has become a little redder in the past period. You can also see that in the election program and on the list. If you're saying that we're closer together and that our relationship has changed, I can only conclude that you're probably right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u56	With the red red of the PvdA, green is also very beautiful. We, too, were able to work together in a large number of areas of mining. Mr Vos says that, if safety is called for, you should further reduce extraction. Would Mr Vos, like GroenLinks, like to have the options on the table, especially for the new coalition agreement? Would he like to know what the SodM thinks of security if you're on 12 billion cubs? That is the only quantity ever mentioned in a SodM opinion. Then the earthquake activity would have decreased so far that it would also be safe in unenforced houses. This hasn't worked out much further. Nor has it been considered on contours and individual death risks. Would Mr Vos, together with GroenLinks, like to ask the Minister if this can be mapped out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u57	We're gonna have to lower the gas extraction. That's the only way we can take gas extraction. Of course, we've been very complicated about it and we've been studying stacks of reports, but we also know now that less winning means less tremors. That sounds pretty obvious to me. Bringing down even further will result in even fewer tremors, and that is the path we must take with each other. That number of 12 is going to have a bit of a life of its own. It is a number mentioned by the former inspector as a private person. If you're asking me if that's the right number, I have to say I don't know. I think it should go down, further down and further down. In the end, we may be even lower than the 12 billion, but that will have to learn the time. When I'm talking about safety, I'm talking about an acute problem. If the Inspector-General sends a letter tomorrow, stating that something is wrong and that we need to intervene, then we are talking about safety and we need to intervene immediately. In that context, I wanted to say this. The fact that safety has improved in general seems obvious to me, because the quakes have been reduced because we have turned off the crane. We can be happy about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u58	To the left or to the right of course we go to zero, but Groningen can't wait for that. However, my question was not whether Mr Vos himself could say what the safe level is, but whether we could ask the Minister together if the SodM could map that out. The only thing they have ever mentioned, and not as a private person, because that has been in reports, is that number of 12. Maybe it's 12, maybe it's 16, maybe it's 10, but we can only know that if we ask for a map. I think that's the least of it. If multiple parties here say the way is down, then we need to know how fast and how far. We can't know that ourselves, because we're not experts. Shall we together ask the Minister to get that on the table in the very short term? We're gonna get a cabinet formation, and that's got to be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u59	You can ask the Minister yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u60	I'd like to know if the PvdA supports that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u61	My question to the SodM has always been asked by the Minister to ask the SodM if it is currently socially responsible and safe to obtain gas. The SodM has looked at our decisions over and over again. Also the last time, the SodM said: we judge this as safe. The Inspector General has that function in the country. If we as MPs are going to call ourselves numbers, it's going to be a bit of a gas bingo. We shouldn't do that. We must ensure that gas extraction is reduced and that people in Groningen are not in acute danger and can live safely in their homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u62	D66 wants the gas extraction further down. We're gonna have to take it down to zero fast. I think we share that with the Labour Party. However, I would like to touch on that point of the 12. Mr Vos has just rightly said that this has led a life of his own. That's why D66 would find it interesting if the SodM could give some more information about it and back it up or at least give a response to it. In this sense, we could jointly submit to Minister Kamp to ensure that this is clarified. People know that number and want to know whether it's true or not. Mr Vos rightly says that we are not the experts, but that the SodM is. It might be good for the SodM to clarify this. It would be nice if we could present that in broad terms to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u63	I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Van Veldhoven's proposal. I would like to join in that. I would also like to formally pass that question on to the Minister, so that it is clear that he is now on the board. I hope you have heard the question, Minister, and I assume you can also answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u64	I see the minister writing. Thank you very much. So we put the question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u65	Mr. Chairman. Groningers are very concerned. Is my house still there after another quake? Are my children or grandchildren safe? What else is my house worth? These are questions I understand, but unfortunately I cannot answer them. But these are questions I should be able to answer. We're all working on that here. It is therefore good to read that all parties in Groningen are asking for a joint approach in their request to the Chamber. I wholeheartedly support that request. We have a problem. The Netherlands has a problem. For years we have all benefited from the gas from the Groninger soil. We heat our houses with it and we even heat houses in Germany and Belgium with it. Groningen has contributed to an affordable and reliable energy supply. The transition to a sustainable energy supply is not only for clean energy, but also for the Groningers. A transition to a clean energy supply takes time. Our economy is built on fossil, our homes are connected to fossil and our jobs are part of that fossil industry. All this needs to be taken into account in this transition towards an affordable, reliable and clean energy supply with a safe Groningen as well. Houses are reinforced and damages will be solved. This takes time and a lot of effort. Every Groninger understands that. No one expects the damage to be fully repaired within a day. What the Groningers do expect is a partner, an organisation that assists them in the process, for example the Centre for Safe Living. Why isn't it possible that the Center for Safe Living communicates properly? You're supposed to keep your end of the bargain. If you say you'll call back next week, you will, even if the answer isn't positive. "No" is also an answer. That's how we treat each other in this country. I also address the NAM. Get that communication, run the call, and keep the residents involved in what you're doing. Really, it's possible. I see houses being reinforced, beautiful swap houses and damages being professionally repaired. But too often it is difficult for the residents. I look at myself, too, at the government. It can be done differently, in the most efficient and fast way. Is there any regulation in the way that we should remove? We get sounds about small contractors who can't compete for assignments at the same level. It goes through a staged system, in which bids from the small contractor via a preferred contractor to the Centre Secure Living have to be made. Is there fair competition? Do local contractors, who are so important for the local economy and employment in the region, get the space and the level playing field they are entitled to? Finally, another point. Mining must be done as safely as possible. As far as I'm concerned, not reporting a leak doesn't fit in. AkzoNobel has really messed up my mind over the past few years. How is it possible that AkzoNobel is not able to follow the relevant procedures? I would also like to hear from the Minister what effect this has on AkzoNobel. For the VVD, it is normal that when you do mining activities, you do it right or wrong. Does the Minister agree with me and is he prepared to take a firm approach to this company again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u66	The VVD together with the Labour Party was the one that stopped the reduction in gas extraction in recent years. What does this joint approach mean?We've already seen the concept motion for the VVD? What does the statement mean that gas extraction should be reduced in concrete terms for the VVD, given the gas decision for the next five years, which states: 24 billion cubic metres a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u67	You don't have to look at the gas extraction on its own. I think we are also talking a lot about sustainability in this Chamber. I have tabled an amendment to remove the mandatory gas connection. I believe that the essence of the matter is: how do we get rid of the gas that we all still use in the Netherlands and which almost every household is connected to? Almost 98% of households are connected to gas. How can we get as many households off the gas as possible in order to further reduce gas extraction? After all, one is linked to the other. I think it's a common ground. It's not so much the question of how to get the gas extraction down, but how to make it less necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u68	I was a little afraid of this: the VVD has a different explanation of the appeal to the cabinet than a number of other parties that are under the motion. The government's initiatives in the field of energy saving and gas-free construction are a little inadequate. If I understand the VVD spokesperson correctly, he says, "If that didn't happen, we can't bring the gas extraction down yet." However, other parties who take part in this motion say: it has to go back to, for example, 21 billion cubic metres. Because the Groningers have been messed with for so long, I think it is important to have clarity: what exactly is being asked? What are the consequences of the joint call?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u69	We also signed "Paris." That's what it stands for, and that's what we stand for. That's what we care about. We have also spoken out on this issue. It's also in our election program. These are essential steps. It's big steps we have to take. When the problem was just raised, we did not know what was going on. We were all watching exactly what had to be done, in all due care. The State surveillance of the Mines was also there. In all due care, we looked at the steps we had to take. Looking at the question of what the future is going to bring us, I see a huge sustainability and a huge acceleration for me. There's a huge ambition in it. Given the enormous amount of wind at sea that we are using and the additional price development, the need for fossil fuels can be further reduced. I see a big step in that direction, but you have to link things up. I dare to do so, because I see that ambition is there. This ambition is endorsed by almost the entire Chamber. In this way, I really foresee that huge steps can be taken, including with regard to the reduction of gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u70	I am pleased that Mr Bosman spends so much time in his contribution to the local contractors who have to work on repairing and strengthening the houses in Groningen. I am also pleased that he advocates fair access for local contractors to that whole process. In November, I also drew attention to this in the discussion of the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I tabled a motion on that at the time. Do I think Mr Bosman is on my side when we also put forward this broad motion with a sentence on no unnecessary requirements for contractors and subcontractors and a real freedom in the choice of the residents of Groningen for the contractors who are going to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u71	I think there's that freedom. There are a number of conditions. I agree with Mr Bruins that you should look very closely at those conditions. My concern was, at least, that has come to my attention and I explained to the Minister that there is a stepped-up system and that, as a subcontractor, you must first go through the contractor to see what is going to happen, and then there will be a price rise. Is that right? If that happens, then there is no level playing field, certainly not for the little contractor. On the contrary, I think it is important that the small contractor has the space to do so. I think the Minister is perfectly capable of explaining this. I am also reluctant to amend the motion for a resolution, because I think there is a well-balanced motion, which I can really support. That really speaks for the ambition to do this together and to stand by it all. I understand Mr Bruins' concern, but I think they understand that in Groningen too, and the Minister understands that, on the basis of the motion as it has now been put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u72	Then we wait for the Minister's answer and then Mr Bosman and I will look together to see if we think there is a level playing field there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u73	I am a little concerned about Mr Bosman's answer to Mrs Ouwehand's question. Of course, I've seen that motion, too. If you sign that motion, I think you're gonna tell me that you're gonna break the mining decision we discussed earlier. After all, the motion states that gas extraction is being phased out. We have talked in the previous debate about calibration moments and so on, but we cannot, because then the NAM can simply go to court. That mining decision must therefore be broken open. Does Mr Bosman agree with me that this is the consequence of this motion later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u74	Within the decision, there is room to assess what is going on every time. I think that's consistent, too. We have to keep doing that. That way, we have to look at what is the safest form. That's what we stand for. It is therefore also linked to security of supply. I therefore hope that we will work as hard as possible to make these houses more sustainable. I look forward to the discussion of the Energy Transition legislative proposal and my amendment to remove that mandatory gas connection. I think that's the profit for everyone. If that awareness gets stronger, if we take it into account that we need to think about what to do with that gas in our house, then it only gets better. Then the gas demand goes down and the gas extraction in Groningen can also go down. I'm really convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u75	The link with the Paris agreement and with the question of whether or not to continue with gas connections, I think that is a little bit further away from what is going on in Groningen. It is not the first time that I have tasted Mr Bosman's feeling of emotion in the area and of what really concerns people. People there are not busy with the Paris agreement and with the question whether or not there will be gas connections in new buildings or old buildings in Amsterdam or Utrecht. They're working on their own future. He's at stake. This is the umpteenth time that I actually do not hear the VVD say anything about that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u76	I'm a little disappointed. Then Mr. Smaling didn't listen very well after all. I, too, have been in the area, I speak with people and I am concerned, but I do have a responsibility to ensure that we do so in the most careful way. My care is obviously different from that of Mr Smaling. It's possible. Well, there's a difference. But that doesn't mean that my feeling or my concern would be different or that I would have less with the people I know in Groningen. That's not true. That's unfair. Neither should we. I don't think that's gonna help anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u77	Mrs. Van Tongeren, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u78	I wanted to ask the same question I also asked the PvdA. It is very nice that the VVD has co-signed a motion stating that the gas extraction has to go down. To get a clear picture of how far that should be and what the consequences are, that needs to be mapped out. I would very much like to ask this Minister together with the VVD, the PvdA and the other parties. I ask for support from the VVD to map that so that those figures and that information for a subsequent cabinet formation are on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u79	It is a good practice in this Chamber to support a request for information from a colleague. I wholeheartedly support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u80	When I hear Mr Bosman talking about a wonderful transition of all those homes, which must of course take place, two words come to mind. The sooner we can do that in Groningen, the better. But this is taking a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u81	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u82	What are we going to do in the meantime? Does the VVD just keep the 24 billion cub upright over the next five years, knowing that the homes will not be reinforced in time? Or is the VVD really willing to take a step towards less extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mrs Mulder is starting a slightly different discussion. It's okay. We have concerns about the strengthening of the houses. If you're just strengthening, it could go faster. But then you just strengthen. Perhaps you conclude two years later that you would actually want to make it more sustainable. Then you have to put the house back on stilts and harass people again. We have therefore asked for an equal sustainability. But that's gonna slow down. We have therefore asked ourselves not only to strengthen, but also to make it more sustainable. However, that combination also slows down. We can say that you can only strengthen. It'll go a lot faster. But that's a shame. We're all trying to weigh this up. We conclude that we are now gaining less gas. We see that there are fewer earthquakes and that the earthquakes are also less heavy. But there's got to be that gear. That is why I think it is important for the local contractor to be involved, for more people to be directly involved and for us to take on larger projects. I sincerely hope that the housing corporations will be firm on that and make it faster, which will also make it cheaper. In my opinion, that kind of thing is really essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u84	I think the whole Chamber would like perspective for Groningen. We all want Groningen to take the lead in the energy transition and to give Groningen every opportunity for the future after all the misery that people have had there. If you want to bet on a transition and not only strengthen the houses but also make them more sustainable, I wonder if you should not close the gas tap even further in the meantime. For example, a nitrogen factory could help, even if it costs a lot of money. We need to take the time to do it in a good way. Perhaps, therefore, we should first use the reinforcement and, secondly, make it more sustainable. 'Cause the houses just need to be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u85	Mrs Mulder refers here to the nitrogen plant. It'll be ready in three or four years. It's a little easy to mention it here now. I think that's unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u86	I said this a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u87	I think we should work together here. We need to see what's possible. The ambition for sustainability lies there. We must start using less and less gas, so that gas needs can be reduced further and further. I think that is absolutely the crucial road.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u88	D66 wants an accelerated phasing-out to zero and we don't want to produce for the treasury. I have a question for Mr Bosman. If we manage to reduce the question by making houses more sustainable quickly, D66 would like to do so, and I think Mr Bosman is also dynamic in the extraction plan? Is it gonna go down right away? So are we not gonna fill in when that question is no longer there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u89	I think that is the most logical consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u90	Good. This isn't what we agreed on. But now the VVD says just like D66: if it is not necessary and we reduce demand, the extraction ceiling will also go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u91	Yes. That then increases safety; at least, not quite. This is difficult, because we'll talk about the way we win. We have also discussed this with the State Department of Mines. If it falls too low and the form of winning changes, putting the dynamics completely in the field, this is also more unsafe. So I'm very careful about it. It must be linked to what State supervision of the Mines says about the way of winning. I want to be careful that we do not just say blindly: then less. If dynamic winning presents a risk for earthquakes, for seismic activity, then I absolutely want to make a reservation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u92	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u93	Madam President. The spokesmen of the various groups in the Chamber have moved into the Groningers and they reason from the emotions they share with the Groningers. That's the way it's supposed to be. That is true of them as representatives of the people, but that is certainly true of me as the one who has been responsible for four years and feels it strongly. The Groningers don't have long toes. Gas has been extracted in their province for more than 50 years. Since the 1990s there has been rumbling in the subsurface. That got worse and worse. In 2012, only in 2012, for the Groningen, the measure was full of the quake at Huizinge with a strength of 3.6 on the Richter scale. Those Groningers were quite right that they were full of measure and that it is now our task and, in particular, my duty to do justice to them and to approach the earthquake problem from their point of view. What matters is five main points: The Groningers want to get rid of the earthquakes. They want a smooth handling of damages and do not have to do with the NAM. They want to be safe in their own home, just safe in their own home where they want to be safe in the first place, where they go if they want to be safe. They want to recognise the serious problems they face in their area. They want compensation for the misery they've faced, which they've experienced. To the Groningen people's representatives and leaders who stand up for them, to the spokesmen in this debate, I agree with that approach. It is not a new insight for me and for the cabinet, but it is an insight that has grown. It has been followed up, but further action is needed. The insight has grown because of what is happening in the area and has been teasing people for years now, because of the results of the investigations that we had conducted in 2013 and beyond, by the advice of State surveillance on the Mines and other advice we have received, and especially because of the many discussions and discussions we have had in the area with the people and the administrators, and also here in this house. I have the conviction that it is from this point of view that action must be taken. And I know that that applies to myself in the first place. I'm going to indicate how I translate this into practice, but first I want to name where the pain in particular has arisen over time. In the process of gas extraction, the risks and consequences for the Groningen and the part of the province of Groningen where this took place in particular have not been well reflected. This means that it has not been taken into account. In the year of the investigations, 2013, the year after the heavy earthquake at Huizinge, gas extraction increased from 48 billion to 54 billion m. The complexity of the reinforcement exercise has initially been underestimated, certainly by me. There are explanations for this, which I gave here in this House for the second and third points I have just mentioned, but those facts are there and I am very aware of the pain that has been caused by them. I would like to go into the five points I have just mentioned one by one. The first point is that the Groningers want to get rid of those earthquakes. The most rigorous measure would be to stop that natural gas extraction. Mrs Mulder said that if it had been under The Hague, that mining would have stopped long ago. If we were to stop natural gas extraction, we would solve a major problem by creating another major problem. The whole of the Netherlands, including Groningen, and parts of Germany, Belgium and France would be in the cold immediately. And you can't! We can only take into account the importance of security of supply. We have now done so by reducing the extraction of gas, by halving it to a level of 24 billion m3. That's a half cut compared to the year 2012, the year before this cabinet took office. It must be a permanent low extraction and also a flat extraction in order to ensure the optimum safety of the people in the area. I have decided to do so, on the basis of very specific and specific advice from the State surveillance of the Mines and the Mining Council. Meanwhile, in neighbouring countries, gas equipment is being rebuilt at home and in the offices, so that it can run on high-caloric gas instead of on low-caloric gas. That means the gas doesn't have to come from Groningen anymore. In the Netherlands, we exchange fossil energy for renewable energy as soon as possible. We're doing it at a high rate. For example, in the period between now and 2050 we have the ambition to decouple an average of 200,000 homes per year from the gas. The result of the foreign decline I have just described and the planned decline in the Netherlands is that the demand for gas from the Groningen field decreases by 2 billion m per year after the year 2020. That goes on until the year 2029. Then the need is 7 billion m a year. So between 2020 and 2029 the demand that comes from the security of supply becomes 2 billion less each year. At the end of that period, in 2029, we are at 7 billion m and that is the gas needed to meet the security of supply requirements. That's the second big problem we have. The first is the safety of the people in Groningen and the second is the need to keep the country warm and prevent the country from falling silent. In the meantime, up to 2020, we will review annually whether, in relation to that level of 24 billion, which is set as the minimum level to obtain flat gas and in order to avoid as much seismicity as possible, new facts or circumstances arise that should lead to a different understanding. That is the level advised by the State surveillance of the Mines and the Mining Council. So every year we're going to see what's going on, what happened and what's possible. Then it can be re-examined whether we need to come to a different understanding. The second point of the five I mentioned is that there must be a smooth handling of the damage and that the people in Groningen do not want to have to do with the NAM. I think we've got that situation the Groningen wanted us to have in reach right now. The first important step we took was the creation of the Safe Living Centre. That centre was under the supervision of an independent committee from the beginning and is now under the supervision of the National Coordinator Groningen. The National Coordinator Groningen has also drawn the complex damage cases, which cannot be settled regularly by the Centre for Safe Living. He's also the one who's going to establish the damage protocol. It's not the NAM or anyone else, it's the National Coordinator Groningen. He will set the quality standards for the damage experts and he will also establish the manual with which the damage experts will work. Finally, I have a legislative proposal in preparation, which strengthens the legal position of the National Coordinator, not only vis-à-vis the authorities but also vis-à-vis the NAM. Damage handling as it is currently taking place has been designed with the best of intentions. I refer to the establishment of the Centre for Safe Living and the investigation by a damage expert, who simply has to meet requirements and who has to do his job with the aim of determining the damage and ensuring that it is compensated. Sometimes a second expert or even a third expert can be brought in. I would also mention the Technical Committee on Soil Movement and the Arbiter Earthquake cases, which have now dealt with 40 cases. Finally, we have also been given the presumption of proof in the law. In this way, we have achieved a situation with the best of intentions, which also results in delays and higher costs. The compensation is not affected by this, because the damage is simply paid 100%, but around the damage and on top of the damage is caused by this delay and by its complexity more and more costs. In order to ensure that we can handle damage smoothly, as we all want, the National Coordinator is now looking at how that is reasonably possible. He has identified two possibilities for this and is working on pilots at that point. Four years ago, the case was as follows. You had suffered damage that you needed to be compensated for. Then you had to deal with that big NAM, that company of Shell and ExxonMobil with a big organization. In that company there is a lot of expertise available, also with opportunities to hire what is necessary. As a citizen, the one who had suffered damage, you were confronted with it. You were already angry and worried about that damage, and then you had to fight with it. That was the feeling of the people in Groningen, and I don't think that was wrong. Instead, the situation in which you are dealing with the Centre for Safe Living and with public direction carried out by the National Coordinator with his organisation is now in place. He's the one who's directing it, he's the one who decides what happens at that Centrum Safe Living. As far as necessary, the National Coordinator also draws matters directly to him. The third point that plays is the feeling of being safe in your own home. It has become clear, for a lot of people but certainly for me, how complex and far-reaching the necessary reinforcement is for which we stand in Groningen. This is not only complex and profound for the owners, owners and tenants of the houses, for the corporations and for the municipalities, but also for the organisation of Centrum Secure Living and the organisation of the National Coordinator Groningen. In Loppersum a concrete start has been made with the reinforcement on a somewhat larger scale with a number of corporate homes. At the moment, Appingedam is also preparing a plan for a large district where a large number of homes, both private property and the property of corporations, need to be strengthened. Plans for reinforcement are also being developed in other places in the area, often in conjunction with district improvement. Its implementation should begin in October. That's later than I thought, because I didn't realize how far-reaching that reinforcement is. You can't just go to a place and strengthen it. You need to talk to the residents of each house individually about what we think should happen there, what they think about it and how it can be carried out. It will then have to be agreed. Moreover, it is a process so far-reaching and costly that it is necessary to link other activities to it. If you do a major intervention in an area in Appingedam, it is very good to combine it with the municipality, so that the district is also redesigned and improved. The district can thus become more open, for example there can be more space for parking. For example, the district is improved in other ways at the same time as the major intervention of reinforcement. Getting all this done is a very difficult task for the people of the National Coordinator Groningen and for himself, as well as for the organisation Centrum Secure Living. I think it is absolutely essential that we, as governments, the municipalities, the province and the Empire, support them to ensure that this operation can be carried out as well and as quickly as possible. Of great importance for the safety of people in their own homes is of course also that the number of palpable earthquakes in Groningen has now decreased. I think that we have succeeded in doing so, above all, thanks to the reduction of the amount of natural gas produced, combined with flat extraction, something that is increasingly happening. Earthquakes are palpable from 1.5 on the Richter scale. Such earthquakes have decreased from 29 to 13 a year. The heaviest earthquake in 2012 had a force of 3.6 and the heaviest earthquake last year had a force of 2.4 on the Richter scale. So there has been a significant change in that. You can see that with the reduction in the extraction of natural gas combined with the strengthening of housing, we are growing towards the situation that we must ultimately emerge from as quickly as possible. The fourth point concerns the recognition of the serious problems that people in Groningen have been facing for years and are still facing. I think we can see that, in the meantime, perhaps it is better to say 'finally', the serious problem with which they have been saddled is widely recognised. But that only gets meaning if it is acted upon. I don't think it's that far. The fact that the minimum has been reached by 24 billion m for the next few years is still under discussion in Groningen, that the damage handling needs to be improved and that the damage enhancement is slowly starting to happen. For all this, every time you want to acknowledge people's problems and give them meaning by doing what is necessary, only the hard results count. The last of the five points I have just mentioned concerns the compensation that one wants in Groningen for the misery that has been experienced there. After all, people had a beautiful region and a house in which they felt safe. Then those earthquakes came. Then the damage is compensated and that sort of thing happens. Eventually, after a lot of troubles, you come back to the level that others in the country continue to take for granted. So that has to be compensated. We are compensating for this by means of an increase in value, which has now been made available in total EUR 235 million. This means that if you have €1,000 or more damage, you will be compensated 100% but on top of that an amount of up to €4,000 will be available that can be used for energy sustainability of the home. We also make 60 million available for life-support programmes. There are many forms of these programmes, which are now being implemented by the National Coordinator Groningen in consultation with the people in the area. We have also made a large amount of money available to combine the strengthening of schools in the area with the sustainability and upgrading of those schools. An amount of €65 million has been made available to the Economic Board of Groningen, supplemented by the Province to €97,5 million. This is currently launching all kinds of good and important activities in Groningen. EUR 40 million has been made available, in addition to a scheme already in place at BZK, for reinforcement, and in particular for sustainability at the same time as reinforcement so that you can do something extra for the people whose house is being strengthened. For the pilot purchase instrument 10 million euros have been made available and we have made a high contribution to the sustainability of hundreds of rental homes up to zero-on-the-meter houses. In a large number of houses, in the order of 100 to 170, this has already been realized at the moment. In addition, I now hear in this house that the Groningen people's desire to bring a renowned institute such as the international climate institute to Groningen is being taken over, because it is a matter of looking for an establishment. I believe that this can provide knowledge in the field of energy and climate in the region. There are good leads at the University and the University of Groningen, where a lot is already being done with enthusiasm on that point. There is also relevant knowledge at the Energy Academy Europe. We do not control the process of choosing the knowledge institute. This is something from the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). That organization is working on that right now. The Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment is discussing it. I'll definitely talk to her about it. She has Groningen roots and I have no doubt that that will be a fruitful conversation. I will inform her of what has been exchanged in the Chamber today on this point. This is an introduction to the further examination of the questions raised by the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u94	Before I give Mrs Van Tongeren the floor, I have a question for the Minister. A lot of questions were asked in the first term. I would like to know how the Minister will answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mr. Chairman. I will communicate directly with the spokesmen as much as possible. I will try to answer the questions of the spokesmen and take all the issues into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u96	The Minister speaks insensitive words and talks about "the best intentions," but his text is actually an evaluation of the last four years of cabinet policy. Is the Minister actually asking for an understanding of the Groningen people for the fact that it was all slow, difficult, not entirely successful and intended better? Is that the port of the Minister's introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u97	No, I don't need to ask for any understanding for the only thing that matters: the position of the people in Groningen. Over the past four years, we have been the employees of my ministry, the cabinet, the chamber and everyone who was involved in this in one way or another, for example in the form of research or advice, all of us have become aware that there was a serious problem there, something to be done about. So we've done quite a few things over the past four years. It's not for nothing that the gas extraction has been halved. It is not for nothing that a major reinforcement programme is being set up. At first you only had the people in the area and the NAM, but now there is a public direction between the National Coordinator Groningen with the inter-administrative service and the Centre Secure Living. That's not for nothing either. A lot of things have changed in the area. To give a good idea of what needs to be done for the people in Groningen, what has already been done and what has yet to be done, I have appointed all this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u98	Does the Minister think, looking back at the period in which he was working, that it is good enough for now and that the Groningers are now safe? Or does he think that The Hague has abandoned Groningen and has done too little?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u99	No, since we have carried out these investigations and since it became clear what the problem was and how you could respond to it, we have taken four decisions to reduce gas extraction. The final decision was the level of 24 billion m. I have already said why we have made that decision. First of all, it's about the safety of the people in Groningen, but you can't solve that problem by causing a problem for the whole country, including Groningen. You can't let people sit in the cold in the winter. I also have to take into account the security of supply. We've talked a lot about the question of exactly what level to sit at. We've been investigating that, too. State supervision of the Mines has advised to sit at 24 billion m because you will be as low as possible, because you will meet the minimum for security of supply and because you can win as flat as possible, thus achieving the lowest level of seismicity. The same advice was given to me by the Mining Council. So we're at that level now. Two other things are relevant. First of all, demand for security of supply will decline significantly from 2020 as a result of what I have appointed. Secondly, we are going to look every year at whether there are new facts or circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u100	The minister began to admit very well that he had initially underestimated things. We're sitting a month before the election. If the Minister looks back on the past three or four years, can he point out points in time when he would say with his knowledge of today that he would have done something else, given the situation we are now in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u101	I mentioned three of them. Firstly: I do not want to point out to my predecessors, but the fact is that we have not been sufficiently aware of what happened in Groningen for decades. I was also a member of the Lower House and of the Cabinet then, so I do not blame anyone else. We have not been sufficiently aware of what was accumulated in Groningen and what was done to the people in Groningen. The risk of natural gas extraction and the consequences of seismicity in that area have been underestimated. That is the first point. Secondly, I think that with the knowledge of the present, as Mr Smaling says, there has been a great deal of pain caused by gas extraction in the year we were conducting these investigations, going from 48 billion to 54 billion m. Thirdly, I am thinking of what I said about the strengthening that we would achieve there and the period within which we would do so. Now I see how complex that is. I realize you can't talk about strengthening 1,000 or 500 homes. It's 1,500 times ordinary people sitting in their homes, who haven't asked for anything, who have to get out, with whom the garden turns upside down, the barn is broken down and everything happens in the house. Those people have a right to be individually and individually talked to, to explain to them what and why, to ask them what they think of it and to discuss with them how it can be carried out. All of that has to happen. The way in which I approached the reinforcement in the first instance is not the way I would do it now, now that I have an understanding of the problem and the complexity of the task.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u102	Wouldn't that include the fact that you should've detonated that whole gas building earlier. When I look back, I see a lot of delay, poaching, obstruction and lawsuits. This also has to do with the way in which the whole governance, which I never know how to translate into Dutch, is regulated. Does the Minister not think that this is also a point which has not really been given much attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u103	No, I myself was the first to say that I should also be expected to do so, because I am in that place because, in view of the situation in Groningen, the amount of natural gas extracted and the amount of natural gas that will or will not be extracted, it is good to look at the structure agreed for that purpose in the 1960s. Can we continue to hold on to that structure or should something be changed in that structure? There are a number of things going on with it. Agreements have been made that are beneficial for NAM, Shell and Exxon, but which are also beneficial for the government. There is therefore a balance of interests and this must be done properly. Other than that, I don't have much to do with that gas building. I've never felt obstructed by that gas building either. I have to make sure that the Netherlands is not in the cold. I had to reduce the extraction of natural gas in Groningen as quickly as possible. I have never felt obstructed by the gas building or by parties in the gas building.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u104	Last year we discussed with the Minister in September the possibility of building a nitrogen plant. For example, you can import more gas from Norway and further reduce the gas extraction of the Groningen gas. The Minister states that it is hugely complex to further strengthen all homes and also to make them sustainable. Is it not wise, then, that the Minister should take a decision on this nitrogen plant as soon as possible, so that we can create the room for ourselves to shape it properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u105	I'll be back at that nitrogen factory. I wonder whether I should do so now as a result of an interruption. I come back to the points raised by Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u106	I suggest that you continue to answer the questions. Then you will come to Mrs Mulder's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u107	Okay, we'll do it in a minute. Let me start with Mrs Van Tongeren. It is a pity that gas exports increased in 2016, as shown by the statistics of the CBS. The Netherlands is a gas roundabout. Gas is being imported into the Netherlands and it is being transited. As you can see, gas imports have increased and transit has also increased, so gas exports have increased. It is particularly high-caloric gas. If you only look at the Groningengas, you will see that in 2016 less exports were made than in 2015. That makes sense, because less gas has been extracted from Groningen. In this respect, there is nothing to worry about by Mrs Van Tongeren. Mrs Van Tongeren and others say I need to revisit the contracts. I don't have much to do with those contracts. I am concerned that I cannot put people in the cold in the Netherlands, but also in Germany, France and Belgium: people who have equipment that is only useful for the Groningen gas, for the low-caloric gas. This must be handled with care. I have to deal with the actual need for gas abroad. I'll send it to you, too. Agreements have been made with Germany, France and Belgium to tackle and change that. This leads to less demand coming from those countries. Together with what we are doing in the Netherlands, this means that the demand for gas from Groningen for security of supply will decrease by 2 billion m per year to a level of 7 billion m in the year 2029. Mrs Van Tongeren asked a question about the Structural Vision Underground. She says that it should be included, which always takes priority in a sustainable way. The Netherlands is the only country in the world that also has a structural vision for the subsurface, which also has planological spatial ambitions for the subsurface. There is no other country in the world that does. We have a very rich history of spatial planning at the top and are now the first to do so. It concerns that structural vision about developments that may take place because the potential is present in that subsurface. We've visualized what might play there. Renewable energy is on the agenda. During the transitional period we still have fossil energy, which is used to a decreasing extent between now and 2050. In addition, we have the major interests of drinking water supply. What happens in the Structure Vision Underground is that they are weighed against each other. It is said what you have to take into account, what is not possible in some places and how other places should be considered. I think that we are doing this very carefully and that it deserves the support of the Chamber that it has received so far. Mrs Van Tongeren, like Mrs Van Veldhoven, Mr Vos and Mrs Mulder, asked for a plan to further reduce gas extraction. I've really hit the bottom with that 24 billion m. The State surveillance of the Mines and the Mines Council tell me that it is now at a level where you can get away with it in 50% of winters. In colder winters a different situation arises. If there's another situation, you have to win more. If you lower the level of 24 billion m further, you get larger fluctuations in the extraction than there are at a level of 24 billion m. There's some advantage of sitting below 24 billion m, but then there's the big downside of those fluctuations. That set against each other, so says the State's supervision of the Mines and the Mining Council, that 24 billion m is the optimum. You'll be low and flat. You can do that right now. I have already said that I must take account of the security of supply and that it is established for a number of years. However, developments are taking place. From 2020 that changes. The period up to 2020 has not been poured into concrete for me. That's what we talked about in the Chamber. Every year in September, I say, memorized, we are going to see what the situation is at that time and whether there are new facts and new circumstances that should lead to new insights. Then we can turn that into a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u108	In fact, I would suggest that the Minister should first deal with all of Mrs Van Tongeren's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u109	Okay, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u110	I have a point of order, Mr President. At this point, too, it is relevant to bring forward such a nitrogen factory. After all, you give yourself space to finally be able to go down in total. The Minister is giving answers now, but this is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u111	I would like to say in the meantime that if it is decided to implement that nitrogen plant, I will say a few things about it later, which will run in the fourth quarter of 2021. This means that for this first period, i.e. until the fourth quarter of 2021, it has no influence. From 2020 onwards, we will get the drop in demand due to security of supply. That's the whole thing I'm going to go into later. So the fact that the problem is solved when that nitrogen plant is set up is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mrs. Mulder, he'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u113	I know, but I don't want to suggest here that the CDA says that with such a nitrogen plant all the problems have been solved at once. We could have made the decision on these nitrogen plants last year alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u114	Mrs. Mulder...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u115	We could have done it by 2020. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u116	Mrs Mulder, this was not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u117	About making suggestions. I understand that the motto of the Chamber is "not politically hacked." I think that's good. However, the motto is also 'no false expectations'. It has been said that if that gas bubble had been under The Hague, we would have stopped the gas extraction a long time ago. That means that we had put the whole of the Netherlands in the cold. You can't do that, can you? Surely we must take all relevant matters into account, all relevant interests? Mrs Van Tongeren asked me not to make irreversible decisions on the Twente soil. In particular, it means the injection of production waters. On the basis of an EIA established, authorisations were granted for an indefinite period in 2011 as regards the injection of production water. Two licences were granted by the College of Deputy States of Overijssel. One was granted by the then Minister of Economic Affairs. There were therefore three authorisations for an indefinite period; that was the situation. Once every six years, there would be an evaluation. I have now put forward this evaluation for a year and a half. At the time, it was said in the EIA that the most environmentally friendly solution for the production water is to inject it into the soil of Twente. I have now looked at whether we should come to a different understanding, whether there would be anything else more environmentally friendly. I am allowed to deviate from those permits and I may prescribe something else to the NAM, if that leads to a more environmentally friendly situation. I cannot simply intervene in an indefinite permit and prescribe things that are even worse for the environment. It can't be. So I had that checked out. I can assure the Chamber that I have looked very carefully and very thoroughly at this. I have involved many drivers and I myself have discussed the matter in depth three times directly with those directors. I have also spoken extensively three times to the people behind the citizens' initiative and I have gone over all the issues. I've also had things that have been given redefined. At the time, the NAM engaged Royal HaskoningDHV. We have the Commission for the m.e.r. enabled for that purpose. We've engaged Deltares. TNO has been there. State surveillance on the Mines has, of course, been there. We've brought in what expertise there is to see what conclusion to draw. We had investigated three alternatives. One alternative was what is happening now: the injection of the production water. Two alternatives were treatment alternatives. Those treatment alternatives have been found to be undeveloped. For the purification of the production water you also need as much electricity as for a municipality with 100,000 inhabitants, such as a city like Delft or Deventer. This purification is also accompanied by evaporation. Due to the fact that you need so much electricity and energy for this, it has been widely concluded that purification of that production water is not more environmentally friendly than injection into the soil of Twente. This conclusion was also drawn from second opinion, also drawn from further analyses carried out, and also from the Commission's opinion on the EIA. This means that I have drawn the conclusion from the evaluation.............................................................................................................................................................................. That doesn't mean the case is over. We have a top sector that interferes with this issue. We have knowledge institutions that interfere with that. And we will also, together with initiators who are interested in this, consider what further development of that technique is still possible. For this we will also work together, and we will see when it is also possible to make test settings for that. Businesses can decide for themselves, but we can also get involved through this top sector. But at the moment that technique is not sufficiently developed, even for a pilot. If that technique had been developed, I would still have the big problem of electricity consumption. Therefore, the conclusion regarding the injection of the production water in Twente has been drawn. This is what I say to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u118	Mrs. Van Tongeren wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u119	But I'm not finished with the answer to her question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u120	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says: this is the least bad of the evil opportunities. But the cabinet also signed the Paris Climate Treaty. It actually says that stocks of fossil fuels should remain underground. My first question is whether the Minister can guarantee that this is safe for the area. Can he also guarantee that if there is damage caused by earthquakes or leakages, that damage will be compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u122	Three authorisations were granted for an indefinite period in 2011. I'm bound by that, too. I have highlighted the evaluation of these permits for a year and a half. I had that looked at very extensively, and I could not reasonably come to the conclusion that if I were going to do something else, that would be more environmentally friendly, or better for the climate. On the contrary, it certainly wasn't. These permits are therefore used. There is a right to use the permits. Oil is being extracted in our country. Gas is being extracted in our country. It's about doing it responsibly. This is also the case here. It is justified, as can be seen from the new EIA that we have put in place and from all the investigations that have been carried out. That is the response to what Mrs Van Tongeren put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u123	There is a difference between "this is the least bad" and being sure that these people are 100% safe and that there will be no leakages, with the addition that if something should happen, there will be earthquake meters and good, adequate damage handling. Does the Minister say: I couldn't do otherwise, because the permits have been issued and this is the least bad? Or is this really an optimal, safe solution for the neighbors and for nature there? Is the damage settlement well arranged if something goes wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u124	The settlement of damages in our country is certainly well arranged. Anyone who causes damage in mining is required to compensate 100% for that damage. So that's not the problem. I didn't put the words "least bad" in my mouth. I said that something was chosen on the basis of the EIA at the time. Now it appears from the new EIA that this is still the environmentally friendly solution. That is why I have not been able to draw the conclusion that something else must be done. That's how it turned out. Between Schoonebeek and Twente, a plastic tube has been inserted into an existing tube. This is a renewal. By State supervision of the Mines, it has been verified whether this has been done in a responsible manner and whether there was another reason to draw other conclusions. That didn't turn out to be the case. That meant I finally had to draw the conclusion I drew. I guess I couldn't have done otherwise in a reasonable way. I think it is also important to keep looking at how the situation is developing over the next few years, whether alternatives are being developed and whether they are giving a lower environmental burden, because they need less electricity. I have also indicated in my letter to the Chamber that in that case I will not hesitate to make a different assessment with regard to the injection of production water.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u125	And now for the rest of the questions, because you are still dealing with Mrs Van Tongeren and you are talking for almost 40 minutes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u126	I have responded to Mrs Van Tongeren's contribution with this, I hope. Then I come to Mrs Van Veldhoven. She asked if I could say anything about the development fund and if I could say anything about the climate institute that could settle in Groningen. I've already done the last one. As far as the development fund is concerned, I think that Mrs Van Veldhoven means the amount that the Economic Board Groningen has obtained: EUR 97.5 million. I have followed this closely, discussed it with stakeholders and looked at projects. I think that's what they're doing very well. They have now committed themselves to over EUR 61 million. Important projects have been launched, such as a 5G test area and pre-working on strengthening houses in the earthquake area, developing alternatives to this. I think the Economic Board in Groningen is doing well. More generally, many economic activities are currently taking place in Groningen. In addition to the new activities in energy and chemistry, the Economic Board focuses on giving small entrepreneurs the opportunity to develop and to make additional facilities available, in addition to the facilities of the government. I think it's very good that they do. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked if I could confirm that the houses in Groningen are safe within five years from the extraction plan, not from the inspection. I cannot confirm that, because at the moment it is not possible to quantify exactly what the reinforcement call is. We have inspected a large number of houses now. Those houses are in the core area. We thought that there would be the greatest risks and that reinforcement would be the first to be dealt with there. In the first place, therefore, we have looked at what needs to be done there. We have found that all those homes that we have already identified should be strengthened. There are more homes in that area. There will be many more inspections to be carried out. This is about thorough inspections, because the consequences are great. They also lead to a lot of computational work, then to improvement proposals and then to consultation with the residents. It's all going as fast as possible, but it can't go any faster. I'm not going to raise false expectations about that. I can't get through that coats. It just needs to be properly inspected. It needs to be properly calculated. There's a meeting to be held. It needs to be placed in a bigger context. It's about a street or a neighborhood. In addition to the residents, you also consult with the municipality, which has ambitions to improve the situation there. We will all do so as soon as possible. The extraction plan does not state that all homes that are not currently earthquake-proof will be strengthened within five years. That is also not possible because not all houses have been inspected yet, but everything that needs to be inspected will be inspected as soon as possible. Then we'll know what it's like. This year in October, we are going to start large-scale implementation. We've already started with a number of rentals in Loppersum. We know how important this is, but we also know that it is necessary to deal with it carefully. I very much hope for the support for this difficult task of province, municipalities, corporations, the Empire and the House of Representatives. The National Coordinator is standing here for a giant call. He desperately needs that support to bring this to a successful conclusion for the Groningen people. That was Mrs Van Veldhoven's first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u127	The great gain in the debate is that we clarify what can be done. The five years of reinforcement, which is so directly linked to security, is important for people. The Minister says 'we are doing everything we can', but we can always look together for ideas that we have not yet used. Would the Minister ask all the people who are currently working on this, the big, the small contractors, the provinces and the inspectors, if they have any tips or ideas for further acceleration? If there are any barriers that people encounter in practice and which we can eliminate, I am sure the Minister will do so and that he will find the Chamber by his side. Can we look again at where further barriers can be removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u128	Yeah, but it's mostly about practice now. We know it has to be done. We already know what needs to be done about the first 1,475 homes. We are working towards a level of 5,000 inspections per year. So we will have a large reservoir of houses that all need to be strengthened. Getting it done in a larger and in a small individual context is a real challenge. I have made sure of this in a number of conversations with the National Coordinator. We have also spoken to the people who have to do that work in the neighbourhoods. We spoke to the people in the congregations. It's a really big job. I have no indication that anything is slowing down. If already working opportunities are seen to speed things up and others have ideas about them, that would be wonderful. The greatest contribution that governments can make to this is to work together together to enable the National Coordinator and the big club people around him to do this. It is also important for the National Coordinator to be able to press on at the moments when it stagnates, not only to corporations, municipalities and province, but also to us, towards the Empire. The strengthening of the position of the National Coordinator is laid down in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u129	I am very pleased with that last point, namely that that position is laid down in a law, including the possibility of pushing through certain things at some point, because people live in a house where they are not sure if it is safe. We must do this as quickly as possible. They must feel like we're taking everything out of the closet to do that. So do we at D66. We now have the first experience with the reinforcements. We know how it works and what the best practices are. We can perhaps do everything we can to spread it as widely as possible, so that we can speed it up as quickly as possible in all these municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u130	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u131	Yes. That seems to me to be the way we should do that. I come to the question of independent damages, which Mrs Van Veldhoven and others spoke about. I have already said in my introduction that I see very well how unreasonable the initial situation was. In the final situation, the Centre for Safe Living must be independent of the NAM. It should be directed exclusively by the National Coordinator, who takes the relevant decisions. That's how it's supposed to be. I think the way we're filling this out right now is what the people in Groningen want and what the Chamber wants. Mrs van Veldhoven spoke about Limburg and the rising mining water. The Empire has commissioned a large German research institute to present the problem. That's what happened. Prior to that study, consultations took place with the province and the municipalities. We've had the case analyzed, and now we know what's going on. What's that got to do with old vertical mine shafts? What's that got to do with old horizontal mine shafts? What about the rising mine water? This has led to a number of recommendations. I have reached agreement with the drivers in the area. We're going to implement those recommendations. We think that's how we can prevent damage. That's my belief. If there is damage, then those who caused the damage, or their successors in title, must compensate for that damage. There's also a damages fund. The amount contained in it is sufficient so far. I will discuss this with the directors in Limburg. I am already working on whether extra money is needed and, if so, how that money can be made available. On the basis of this careful investigation, the agreement on the package of measures and the joint approach we have reached with the drivers in the area, I can say that the situation in Limburg is under control. But there's still a lot to be done. There is a need to clean up and the drainage needs to be regulated. We're gonna implement all the recommendations. So much for the situation in Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u132	And Mrs Van Veldhoven's other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u133	I think I've dealt with all of her points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u134	I will put three very brief questions into one interruption. The Minister can answer yes or no. I thank him for what he has said about the situation in Limburg. There too, people need to be sure that the damage will be compensated. I assume the Minister will inform the Chamber when more money is needed and if so, how much money is involved. My second question concerns the injection of mining water. The minister says the technology hasn't been crystallized yet. Is he going to ensure that we continue to monitor the further development of that technology, so that if it turns out that it is better to purify rather than inject, we will? I come to my third short question on the strengthening of housing. The position of the Centre Safe Living has been a thorn in the eye for a long time. People had the idea that the center was still too much related to the NAM. Does the Minister give Hans Alders the room to transform the Safe Living Centre into his execution organisation in order to guarantee the independence of the NAM?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u135	On that last question: the National Coordinator oversees the operation of the Safe Living Centre. It shall establish the protocols on the basis of which work is to be carried out. The complex matters which he feels can not be left routine to the handling of the Centre for Safe Living, he draws to himself in order to fulfil the necessary intermediary role. The combination of the remote functioning of the NAM Safe Living Centre and the public direction that the National Coordinator is going to complete, and already fills in, plus the strengthening of his position vis-à-vis the NAM, creates the situation that Mrs Van Veldhoven wants and which the people in Groningen want. The second point concerns progress in Limburg. I think it is very useful to inform the Chamber regularly about progress in Limburg. I think the case is under control there. We do the good things that need to be done there. But it is very wise to keep following that and to have the Chamber share in it. I come to the injection of the production water and the possible alternative of purification in combination with evaporation. I certainly do not want to raise false expectations about this. Based on what I've seen of that, that's just not right. I do not think it is right to release the electricity from a city of 100,000 inhabitants on the treatment of that water which is 99.97% salt water. That doesn't feel right. It is also clear from all the studies that that is not good. The technique has not yet been developed. I think we should give it a chance. There will therefore be cooperation. If there are initiatives for a pilot, we will also be able to do so, but at the moment I do not see it coming to anything in the foreseeable future. If things are different, as I wrote in the letter to the Chamber, we can make another decision on how to proceed with the injection of that production water.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u136	Exactly. It was about that last one. Thinking does not stop and when there is reason to reconsider that decision, we do. I'd like that confirmation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u137	What I said about Limburg, I also said to Mrs Klever, who mentioned the fund and how to deal with the possible damage there. Mrs Klever once again talked about a buy-out arrangement. She also believes that there should be 100% compensation. There's 100% compensation. There must be 100% compensation. We have set up a complicated circuit, with an expert, another expert, a Technical Committee on Soil Movement, an arbitrator and eventually possibly the judge, where the evidence then applies. It's a complicated circuit with the best intentions, but the speed is off with that. So we need to look at how we can get that speed back, but everything that happens is clear that the damage must be paid 100%. I've talked about the buy-out arrangement before. I can do that again now. I'll leave all options open at the buyout schedule. In anticipation of decision-making, we have said that we would first like to look at all the ins and outs of such an arrangement. We've made $10 million available for a pilot, 50 homes are in on it. That pilot has been carried out and is now being evaluated. We will look at what is coming out of this evaluation and how we can follow it up. I don't rule out possibilities. For me, it is important that I want to respect the character of that Groningen area in all circumstances. It is terrible what is happening in that area now, but if you lose the social structure in that area, it will get worse. I would also like to ensure that the social cohesion and structure of this old area are properly monitored when implementing any follow-up buy-back arrangements. Gas extraction stops once, but that area, I hope, still exists into infinity. We must ensure that that remains a Groningen area with its own character. Mrs Klever also spoke about Twente and Limburg. I've already gone into that. Mrs Klever made another remark in between: the National Coordinator has just rustled 68 million for Forum, where he was also on the board. The issue with Forum was settled before the National Coordinator was in sight. Moreover, I have dealt with this issue with Forum itself. There has been no involvement of the National Coordinator in any way whatsoever. I don't think it's good to wake up that suggestion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u138	Nevertheless, it remains odd that there is 68 million available for Forum, while 37 families who meet all the conditions of the very limited buy-out scheme are empty-handed because they have fallen out of the boat because there is no money for them. The Minister is going to evaluate the buy-out scheme. Is the Minister prepared to meet at least those 37 families who meet all those conditions of this very limited buy-out scheme and still offer a buy-out scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u139	I am not going to anticipate the evaluation of that buy-out scheme and the decisions we are going to take on the basis of that evaluation. I want to see that first and then make decisions. That's how I always do it, and that's how I'm gonna do it now. Then I get to the 68 million. It's not like 68 million has been settled for a while. All kinds of things had to be arranged and while we were doing research and developing policies, the construction of the Forum stopped at some point. Something had to be done with that. There are a number of other large buildings in Groningen with which something had to happen. A provision has therefore been made for this. At some point the corporations had to make an agreement about a large number of homes that would be converted into zero-on-the-meter houses. This was also agreed at the time, all supported and funded by the NAM. The same goes for the schools. In large projects, and there are a number of major projects, the things that had to be done have been done. In addition, we have done what I have described in detail before and with which we will also continue to work. That is what I want to say to Mrs Klever. I have one final point to make. As I have already said, I do not comment on the housing that is not eligible for the scheme, because I want to wait for the evaluation. Let's see what it was all about. We said we're gonna do a pilot with 50 properties. A certain amount was available for this purpose. We've been looking into all of them. Of the 87 applications, 50 have been selected, which have been used to do a good pilot. That was the plan. It's a pilot; it's limited. There are often more applications and more possibilities, but you have to make a choice and it has been made. That's what we've been working on. We must now conclude this evaluation as soon as possible and draw conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u140	Then I'm very curious when that evaluation will come. Maybe the Minister can report that. I continue to find it particularly poignant that people who meet all these conditions are still empty-handed, while 68 million have gone to the Groningen Forum from the pot for damage recovery. Anyway, we'll wait for the evaluation. I have another question about the buy-out scheme. The Minister says that I consider social cohesion in Groningen to be so important and that is why I do not want to go further in this buy-out scheme. But does the Minister agree with me that people should always have the choice where they want to live, and that they cannot be held captive against their will in an area where they do not want to live, purely and exclusively for social cohesion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u141	Mrs. Klever talks about a pot for damage recovery, but then she doesn't have it right on her retina. There's no pot for damage recovery. Damage is just paid 100%. There are estimates and estimates, but I do not have much to do with them. If 500 million is estimated and I need 800 million, then 800 million is spent. So there's no potty. I think that social cohesion in the area is important. We are already taking action in the area with all the earthquakes that are being faced. Now we have the great challenge of reinforcement that we are about to face. If there is also a difficult manageable process of buying out and leaving people, we need to look closely at it. If we set up a buyout scheme, which variants are there, which variant has more advantages than disadvantages and what could we decide? So I just want to leave that open. I come to the functioning of the housing market in the area. A few years ago, I received the first report on the situation on the housing market in Groningen. This showed that there were no indications that the housing market was worse there than in comparable areas. I said at the time that this report was there, with these conclusions, but I also said that as far as I was concerned it was not the answer to the problem and that we would continue to investigate. The follow-up studies indeed showed that there was this problem of the housing market. It's still there, and so it needs to be solved. This problem can be solved by reducing gas extraction, by strengthening it, by making sufficient compensation and possibly also by means of a buy-out scheme. We have already done that, we are working on it and we will have to take decisions on it. As far as the buy-out scheme is concerned, I do not rule out anything, but I would like to await the evaluation. I think it is necessary to complete it in the first quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u142	Mrs. Klever, finalizing. So far, you haven't made any interruptions, so I'm a little overprotective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u143	I would just like to conclude by saying that I am convinced that most Groningers do not want to leave at all, provided they live in a safe and strengthened house. The buy-out scheme is therefore purely and exclusively for those who do want to leave. I really want to say that we cannot allow people to be trapped against their will in an area purely and exclusively for social cohesion. We still have freedom of choice in this country. There won't be many, because most Groningen love their province, but people who want to leave should be able to leave, right? Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u144	Mrs Mulder explains a buy-out scheme...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u145	Mrs. Klever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u146	Sorry, Mrs. Klever is explaining the buyout arrangement as she sees it. I'd like to take note of that. We will examine in the evaluation what variants there are and what, according to the cabinet, and later according to the Chamber, we should decide on. It's not like there's just a housing market in that area. At present, the price level is back to 2012 levels. So there's been a recovery. It is also the case that compensatory measures work in the area. Furthermore, the gas extraction is halved and the reinforcement operation is handled very seriously and responsibly. I think that the whole package of measures should ultimately lead to the housing market situation for the people in Groningen being no worse than that for people elsewhere in the country in similar areas. One of our homage lights to the people in Groningen is to reach that situation as soon as possible. That's how I see it. I will see to what extent a variant of the buy-out scheme can play a role in this. I just mentioned Mrs Mulder. I am now ready to deal with the points raised by Mrs Mulder. She wondered where the independent knowledge programme remained. That point has been raised by the Security Research Council. We agreed with the OVV that this was important. The expertise should initially be provided by the NAM, because it is the holder of the authorisation. She has to do the job and deliver it. This is then accompanied and provided with a second opinion. Opinions are also requested on this subject. However, it is important to develop separate expertise as well. The design of the knowledge programme is ready. That pre-work is done. The members of the committee responsible for steering the programme have been requested. So that's done, too. This means that this programme of knowledge can be useful as soon as possible. That was my answer to Mrs Mulder's first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u147	We know that several studies are already taking place at the University of Groningen. We have asked in previous debates with the Minister how we can ensure that all of them are as closely linked as possible. All this independent knowledge must be properly secured, so that we eventually get good comparisons. The Minister just indicated that the value of the houses is back to the level of 2012. Last year we received figures from the University of Groningen from which a different picture emerged. I like being able to judge that in a good way. How's the Minister gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u148	In any case, I will ensure that all such reports come to the Chamber so that the Chamber can take note of the report itself. I also put these reports on the Internet so that everyone can learn about them and have views about them. I'll do my own analysis and share it with the Chamber. It is imperative that we are 100% transparent about what is happening in Groningen. I'm not gonna say there's no problem at the housing market in Groningen. I never said that, and I won't say that. If there are major problems in the area and people have major problems, then there are also problems in the housing market. Those problems need to be solved. I have said what we are doing for this and that it is also possible that a form of a buy-back scheme, following the pilot, can contribute to this. I am not going to say that certain things that we can have investigated through the independent knowledge programme should not be investigated. I would first like to leave that to the scientific committee that is going to lead the case there. This is created in line with the advice of the OVV. The setup's ready. The people have been visited. They can do their job. What needs to be done there, they can decide for themselves with the other stakeholders in the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u149	Mrs Mulder, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u150	When can the Chamber expect more information so that we can keep track in a good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u151	The Chamber is here now, because I have told you what the current situation is. I think it would be useful to give the Court at least once a year an insight into the progress of the research programme and its results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u152	And now for Mrs Mulder's other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u153	She said she wanted tilt meters to be used in small gas fields. I've spoken to the Chamber a number of times about tilt meters. I think that measurement data should be provided, but in order to determine whether that happens to one meter or another, I am not in favour of that. Those who take responsibility for it must decide that. In particular, State supervision of the Mines must assess this and assess whether it is being done in the right way. I would therefore like to leave that to the experts. I do know that tilt meters are not suitable for determining soil descent by gas extraction. That bottom descent extends over a larger area. That's not what tilt meters are designed for. So I do not think they have any added value in this case. Anyway, it's not about one technique or another. It's about what information you want and how best to obtain it with what tools. Mrs Mulder has said that contracts with foreign countries must be dealt with. I told you, those low-caloric gas contracts are not relevant. Relevant is the physical need for gas abroad, as is the physical need in the Netherlands. I spoke with her about the ruling on a possible gas bubble under The Hague. I also went to Twente and Limburg. I'm coming to the salt extraction by Akzo. Mrs Mulder asked about the consequences for Akzo of what is happening in the area. I think that is a very relevant question. There's three things playing out there right now. Cavernes are forming underground in Twente. Experts and State surveillance of the Mines consider it necessary to cover the water in those caverns with a thin layer of diesel oil during the extraction of salt, in order to prevent the ceiling of the caverns being eroded and possible accidents. As soon as a cavern, or a well, is no longer in use, no water is added to dissolve salt, the diesel oil is removed and the case is stabilised. There should be no problem with that, but it has now been shown that there has been a leak. We have seen that this leakage of diesel oil has polluted 20 metres in the vicinity of the well in question to some extent. So it's a limited pollution, but still. This can play at a lot of wells, a total of about 550. That's where investigations are now taking place. Those are complicated investigations. It takes two weeks per well to understand the pollution. Even if you work with four installations in the area, it still takes a long time. We have been looking at which places are priority: what happens? That's a good picture. That must be provided with a response from Akzo. With this, the company does what is necessary, but also makes up for where it has failed in the past. Otherwise, these leaks would not have occurred. The second problem with Akzo is the horizontal pipes, which transports brackish water, i.e. the water with saline. There's leaks in there, too. The large leakage of July last year brought 1,400 m of brackish water into the country. That was not an isolated problem; it had occurred more often. So that too is a big problem for the company, because it didn't have that in hand in a good way. As a result, the State surveillance of the Mines placed AkzoNobel under enhanced supervision. This is a serious matter. A separate team has been set up to find out and provide the right response. That team has been placed under the direct direction of the Inspector General. I talked to AkzoNobel about it myself. They are well aware of it and have the ambition to ensure that it is put to an end, that it is resolved. It has been put back to me that the collaboration between SodM and AkzoNobel, where SodM says what needs to be done and AkzoNobel does, is good. The company is working to solve these problems. I think that's really necessary. It offers the opportunity to AkzoNobel to restore his good name at this point. It's been a serious problem for the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u154	Have you answered all of Mrs Mulder's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u155	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u156	I also asked about the calculation of group risk. It was due to come to the Chamber at the end of 2016, but I note that it is not yet there. It should be one of the conditions for the extraction of gas at all. I would like to get a response from the Minister; it can also be done in the second term. The Minister would also comment on the conversion capacity, on that plant to be built. I have deliberately kept my head down, but I would like to have a more detailed explanation of that. Does the Minister wish to take the decision earlier so that the factory can be built more quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u157	The Minister would indeed come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u158	I can't find anything on it for a while, so I do it out of my head; that's usually for the best. Around the nitrogen factory that might have to be built, the cabinet made a decision in 2014. GTS told us that on very cold Monday mornings when everyone lit up the stove and the offices and factories were running, there was a capacity problem. There may be insufficient gas available in the near future. We have come to the conclusion that we cannot have that. We cannot let the Netherlands fall silent on a Monday morning. GTS said a nitrogen plant was needed. The cabinet then initiated the process to build that factory. If we had brought it to an end in a straight line, we could have put it into operation by the end of the first quarter of 2020. Two years later, we were informed by GTS that due to other developments, especially around the peak load capacity in Alkmaar, it was no longer necessary for the capacity problem to build that nitrogen plant. But that nitrogen plant also has the ability to contribute by default to meeting the need for low-caloric gas. Imported Russian or Norwegian gas can be converted into the quality of low-caloric gas. You can then make that available to the Dutch customers. There is that possibility. The cabinet then considered when that possibility would become available. That is from the end of the first quarter of 2020. We knew that from that moment on, for security of supply, gas demand is declining by 2 billion m3 per year to 7 billion m3 in the year 2029. At that time, we could not reasonably decide to build a factory for around 500 million, 480 million to be precise, which will only be available in 2020 and then deliver something that can be solved in another way. We did not want to take a negative decision on this. We have left it out in view of the current developments. For that nitrogen plant and what's relevant to it, things still need to be figured out. Developments have yet to be assessed. This means that a new cabinet will have to look at the situation in a year's time and how the balance will be weighed. Perhaps such a new cabinet is of the opinion that a positive decision can be taken. We offer room for that, but because we have not made a decision, the moment of commissioning of the factory has moved to the fourth quarter of 2021. This is in response to what Mrs Mulder asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u159	The Minister is hearing today that the entire Chamber is of the opinion that gas extraction should continue to go down. We ask the Minister to map out all the possibilities for this and I can imagine that the Minister sees this as one of the possibilities for that. After all, it saves 5 to 7 billion cubic tons of gas. By having that factory running from 2021 you can achieve a significant reduction in the number of cuubs. So you have a structural reduction of your own Groninger gas extraction. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u160	That is true, but that plant with a capacity of 5 to 7 billion cubic metres comes, if decided, available at the end of the year 2021. In that year and the years after, demand always goes back by 2 billion cubic metres and that means that the plant has only a few years of added value. On the other hand, there is an investment of EUR 480 million, which means that serious consideration must be given. This could not lead to a positive decision in the cabinet, but we did not want to cut off this possibility either. That is why we have taken the decision we have taken. We also exchanged this with the Chamber at the time, so that the balance for the Chamber is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u161	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u162	Mr President, I have some other questions to ask. Maybe this is the time to ask those questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u163	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the second term, I will get an answer to my question about group risk. What does the Minister need to speed up the start of the waste water treatment pilot? I know that the Minister is not currently enthusiastic about the idea of doing everything in Twente through wastewater treatment, but what is needed to start a small-scale pilot? If we do that, we will have experience with waste water treatment when the permit will have to be revised and we will be able to take waste water treatment as a real possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u165	It is not possible to set up a pilot now, because the technology for this is not sufficiently developed. That pilot can't get there until the technology is developed. In any decision on this pilot, I also keep in mind that it does not directly provide an environmental advantage if we need the electricity of a city of 100,000 inhabitants for that. But we'll see about that. Delft University of Technology has views on the possibility of purification. There is also a company in Twente that has ideas about this. We are now going to talk to them first, because we are available to discuss further development of this technique with the experts from the Water top sector and the institutions. When the time comes for a pilot to come, I will absolutely not stop it. On the contrary! If that leads to new insights, I am also prepared to make a new assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u166	You said this earlier in reply to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u167	I'm sorry, but the chairman didn't let me ask any follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u168	Then I'll give you room for one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u169	I have another question about the disaster fund and the damage in Limburg. When can people really make use of that? Those people just wait and wait and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u170	I don't know which people are waiting and waiting. I'm not familiar with that. In some cases, people have called for this. Those cases were then dealt with as well. If it is established that something is not caused by former mining and therefore has another cause, you cannot go to that calamity fund. It is simply a matter of substance. I have already said that there are three layers if the resources available are insufficient. The first layer is the measures we have adopted in accordance with the investigation. This was agreed with the directors in Limburg. Furthermore, we take measures to prevent damage. We think that's possible. If there is damage, those who have caused it or their successors in title must compensate for it. Finally, we are discussing it with the directors in Groningen to see whether it is necessary to use a fund and whether there is enough money available for it and, if not, how that money can be made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u171	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u172	In response to what Mr Smaling has said, I have already discussed the research programme and the reduction in gas extraction. I also dealt with the question of a possible buy-back scheme, which Mr Smaling raised. I think I have dealt with Mr Smaling's questions. Mr Bruins spoke of a legal aid fund, which he felt should be put in place. As far as the legal aid fund is concerned, Groningen has the following to play. People in Groningen, like everyone else in the country, can take out legal aid insurance. Those possibilities exist, with several insurers. But my intention is that these people don't need it. I want the damage experts to function in such a way that people are already being justiced at the very first stage, and that they are therefore done with it. I believe that 80% of the cases are successful, and this should be done in all cases. If that doesn't work, I don't think people should go to a judge. I believe that there should be a free and accessible arbitrator, to whom people can then present their case. So you don't need legal aid insurance. That arbitrator is currently working, and there are already 40 cases in the picture and in the process. If people eventually came to court, they would have the possibility of legal aid insurance. The National Coordinator will also speak with the insurers to see if there are any bottlenecks and, if so, what solutions are possible. This is in response to what Mr Bruins said on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u173	I understand from the Groningen people that the point of the supply criterion is particularly important here. You can't claim your legal aid insurance if you already know you're in trouble, if you're already in conflict. Is the Minister prepared to consider with a favourable eye whether a solution can also be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u174	In these cases, we have really created the arbitrator. The arbitrators are people who have acted as judges in the past. They are therefore able to create a solution for those concerned. Therefore, these parties did not accept the outcome of an injury expert the first time. After that, a second damage expert was added, and that did not lead to a solution either. Then they can go to the arbitrator. If the arbiter thinks that these people are right, they are right; the appointment is made. Then the damage shall also be compensated in accordance with what the arbitrator has said. If the people do not agree and if they do not want to accept the verdict of that arbitrator, they can go to court. They could have taken out insurance for legal aid costs. The law also provides that there is a presumption of evidence, i.e. reversal of the burden of proof. I think that we have done a great deal of good in this regard. Whether there are any bottlenecks and implementation problems in practice will be reflected in the consultations which the National Coordinator conducts with the insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u175	I would appreciate it if the Minister could undertake that the identification of bottlenecks will focus on housing value, business insurance and legal aid insurance. Is there anything else you need to help the Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u176	I will pass on Mr Bruins's concerns to the National Coordinator with the request to pay attention to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u177	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u178	Mr Bruins spoke about the mandate of the NCG. He will have taken note with agreement of the cabinet's intention to come to the Chamber with a legislative proposal strengthening the position of the National Coordinator. Mr Bruins wondered what it meant that the Prime Minister said that gas extraction was a national matter. This means that this is an important subject for the cabinet, which has led to me being four years and two months on this subject every week and almost every day as Minister for Economic Affairs. On behalf of the cabinet, I focus on this subject, because I know that what is going on in Groningen is not the Groningen problem but a problem for the country as a whole. I have already dealt with the mining decision. I have also mentioned the fact that there is currently no possibility of a phasing-out plan. I have dealt with the various aspects of this issue. Then I come to the idea that damages should be compensated. Some used the term "general pardon" in their mouths. We need to know from each other that whenever there is damage, that damage must be compensated 100%. But nothing human is foreign to the Groningen people and it is conceivable that compensation will be claimed higher than the damage. Problems arise in such cases. Then a second valuer may appear, an arbitrator and possibly another judge. I think it is unfair to the 80% of the people who have agreed to the damage report to now impose a general pardon and honor everything. Then you could have two people next to each other with the same damage. One gets an offer and accepts it; the other doesn't accept the offer because he wants more and eventually gets more through a general pardon. The first person has then been wronged. I do not think that is a good thing; in all cases we must act justly. It is our duty to ensure that we provide 100% compensation for damage cases and that we do so in a way that allows for the people who have damage. We've done it. We've done it, we've done it, we've done it, we've done it, Now we find out that the speed may not have had enough attention. The National Coordinator is now working on two pilots to see what the possibilities for improvement are. I see the need for improvements on this point in terms of compensation. We talked about removing the NAM and replacing the Centre for Safe Living, in combination with the National Coordinator. I think that's the answer and that a general's pardon isn't. Mr Bruins and Mr Bosman spoke about the issue of local contractors. I prefer local contractors. I believe that local contractors should do the work in their own region as much as possible. This means that if people are damaged and those who want to be repaired, the Centre for Safe Living will instruct them to do so, if those people agree to do so. The work must then be carried out by a contractor from the region. If people do not want it that way, they can also attract a contractor from the region themselves and let them do the work. They can also get money. It turns out that they often use that money to hire a contractor. As a rule, that's also a local contractor. That's how we took care of it. However, I do not think that things are going smoothly at the moment. There's a few things going around that need attention. I talked to the National Coordinator about that. He informed me that he knows what's going on, that he's going to discuss it and see if it's necessary to change things. I think the point of the local contractors is important. If there are new developments in this area or if there is further relevant information, I will inform the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u179	I would like to ask the Minister, in his conversation with the National Coordinator, to focus not so much on repairing damage but, above all, on what is called 'risky building elements' and on strengthening. That is where the procedure is not yet clearly regulated. I would like to see, particularly in those areas and also in the case of the major reinforcement operation, that subcontractors can and may have direct contact with the Safe Living Centre, so as to clarify the way in which contracts are given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u180	Mr Bruins' attention is clear. I have the impression that that is also the focus of the National Coordinator. We'll take it with us in the further development. There's always two things in there. We must ensure that, if large-scale activities are needed, we also organise them on a large scale so that it is efficient. Then it happens that you have a situation with contractor and subcontractor. Mr Bruins and I can both imagine the problems that might arise. I think Mr Bruins' attention is right. We will involve this in the discussions on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u181	Perhaps we can use the SME test presented this morning. Maybe we can look at whether the procedure used by the Safe Living Centre or whether that regulation is SME proof, now that the government has embraced the SME test.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u182	I live on the assumption that the SME test is primarily intended for the rules that the government lays down. It is now about the implementation by the Safe Living Centre. However, the idea of looking at this in the spirit of that execution test is not wrong at all. The important thing is that you do justice to small and medium-sized enterprises. I agree with Mr Bruins. Those were Mr Bruins' points. I have dealt with Mrs Ouwehand's points, namely the reinforcement and suggestion of a general's pardon. In addition, I would like to make one more point. Mrs Ouwehand said that the importance of the treasury would go beyond the interests of the citizens. I can assure you that, in the four years that I have been working on this dossier, I have not yet directed myself once on the importance of the treasury. That didn't happen by the Cabinet, nor by my associates. That just hasn't been in the picture. I have only sent to the safety of the people in Groningen and to the security of supply to prevent the Netherlands from being in the cold. The facts prove that, too. Due to the fall in the price of natural gas and the decline in production in the Groningenveld, the amount of revenue from gas extraction fell by 10 billion from 13 billion to 3 billion in this cabinet period. That has not been discussed. There has been no discussion that we might just have to get some extra gas to reduce that damage. That's out of the question. It was only about the importance of the safety of the people in Groningen and the importance of the security of supply for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u183	Some of my questions were answered by other spokesmen. I insist that the Minister keeps saying that it is safe and that all damages are dealt with. The experience of those involved is different. I am inclined to opt for the Groningen lecture and the Minister is not simply to believe that the damage is being dealt with properly. That's really different. Not everything gets reimbursed. That's why I don't understand why he's rejecting the proposal for a general's pardon. Of course there are problems in implementation. The Minister's reasoning was: people who agreed to a plan before the general pardoned us, we do wrong. No, we're doing the Groningen right now. Why would he turn that down so easily? Why isn't he more creative in looking for a way to actively take care of the existing cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u184	We have been very active in ensuring that everyone is done justice. We have established the Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator Groningen. As soon as someone reports to the Center for Safe Living, we'll send a damage expert there. If this does not lead to agreement, the person concerned may have recourse to a second injury expert. Even a third-party damage expert has been possible. The Technical Committee on Soil Movement can be used by the resident. The arbitrator may be called in. In court, the burden of proof is reversed. We have been very careful to do justice to every individual case of damage. In a number of cases this does not lead to agreement. That could be on either side. The arbitrator and the judge may repeat the judgment. We must not say that every claim that has been made must be honoured. Then I think you're wronging what's already been done and what's still to be done in the area. Besides, I don't think you'll be spending public money in a responsible way. Two thirds of the NAM money used to compensate for the damage comes from the government. It is therefore necessary to deal with this money carefully. If there is damage, I say without hesitation that it must be paid 100%. We're not gonna pay for any more damage. If you have more than €1,000 damage, you will be reimbursed €1,000 and €4,000 for a sustainability investment in your own home. We will. We have not done more damage compensation than the experts and possibly an arbitrator have determined, and I do not think we should do that either. That is why I have responded to this point as I have just done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u185	The Minister's making a real mistake of thinking. He describes all of the things we couldn't do here. What we can't do is leave people who have damage to their homes that they didn't cause, with that misery. That's the reality that still exists in Groningen. Or does the Minister say here that the appeal of the people in that damage zone for a general apology is really nothing and that they're just whining?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u186	I didn't put those words in my mouth. As Mrs Ouwehand takes it in her mouth, that is her choice. I don't take those words in my mouth. I'm not gonna say nothing's going on either, especially not. I said that it was absolutely necessary to report damage in that ratio and to do something to the NAM and I said what we did in it. The starting point is clear, namely 100% compensation. It is always possible to improve the way it is worked out. That's what I'm looking for, and that's what the National Coordinator is looking for. Yes, we will. However, the impact will not be such that people will receive less than 100% compensation. The Court has also already decided to maintain the value increase scheme for all 1,000-plus cases. So that's a fact, too. What I do not think is right, however, is to do more than have been established by an expert, by an arbitrator or, where appropriate, by a judge. I think you'll create legal inequality in the area. That is why I said that we must continue to pay attention to this damage management and continue to make improvements. We need to keep the starting point up. The value increase scheme remains in place. However, we should not take a step to create legal uncertainty and inequality in the area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u187	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u188	Mr Vos spoke about the NCG's perseverance force. That's what I've been working on. He also expressed how he felt that the approach of the people in Groningen and of the problem should be. I have done the same for myself, and I think that what I have said is in line with what Mr Vos and also the Chamber are looking at: reasoning from the people in the area and trying to do justice to it. He was wondering how I'd look back on it. At the beginning of my reply I addressed the question of how I look back on it. I've gone into Limburg. As far as Schiermonnikoog is concerned, it is clear that, because of the existing licence issued by the Council of State, there was a situation different from that laid down in the revised Mining Act. The Council of State's ruling that the old licence may be implemented and the company renounces it means that for the whole area, including Schiermonnikoog, the situation created by the legislative amendment is now emerging. I think that gives us some clarity. Then I come to Mr Bosman. He also discussed the contractors in detail. I did, too. He also talked about communication in the area. I think that, as Mr Bosman said, this must remain a constant starting point. People's feelings that they are not being justiced, that they are being sent from the locker to the wall and that agreements are not being kept are not occasional. You hear that a lot in the area. I told you, people don't have long toes and they're not shy about problems. People face problems, so we have to do our job well and also communicate well about our work with the people. I'm sure things are still going wrong. The Centre for Safe Living and the National Coordinator Groningen is home to people from the area itself. Those aren't people who flew in from another part of the country. It's Groningers who are attracted and working there. They are very able to empathize with the people and know what needs to be done. They are also trained in communication. This is being dealt with in a planned manner. They're being escorted into that, too. I think it is necessary to do so and we should continue to do so. People often have to discuss difficult messages in difficult circumstances. This requires continued attention to and guidance in communication. I would like to say to Mr Bosman that the National Coordinator will continue to pay close attention to this. That is absolutely necessary. Mr Bosman discussed the relationship between what is going on in Groningen and the transition to renewable energy. I think that was rightly outlined by him. We are convinced that we need to make this transition to renewable energy. We invest an unprecedented amount of money in that. Last year, we made 12.5 billion commitments for the transition to renewable energy. That amount includes the money for the wind farms at sea. It's an unprecedented amount. My plan for this year is that I will make another 12 billion commitments, apart from the offshore wind farm, for which a third tender will also take place this year. We are therefore engaged in powerful violence to make this transition to renewable energy as soon as possible. We are now at 6% renewable energy, and we want to arrive at 0% fossil energy by 2050. It is just a fact that in the meantime a lot of fossil energy is still needed to keep society going. It is now a question of ensuring that it is acceptable in such a way, especially from the point of view of the safety of the people in Groningen. We must do justice to those who have been faced with the serious problems in that area for many years. Mr Bosman also spoke about AkzoNobel. He doesn't think what happened there is normal. It's not normal either. So there was also a correction there. The company understands that and the SodM is on top of that. What needs to be done is now being done. I believe that this is also absolutely necessary to restore the good name of the company concerned. That company has a really good name. It is also necessary to ensure that a repetition will not occur. Mr President, I believe that I have dealt with all the points raised by the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u189	Yeah, I got that impression, too. Thank you. We have come to the end of the government's first term. I suspect there's a need for a second term. But before we keep it, I'm gonna suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u190	We have arrived at the second term of office. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds, including tabling motions. I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u191	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas mining activities and other uses of land, such as agriculture, nature, water extraction and geothermal energy, do not always combine well;]] [[calls on the government, from the precautionary principle, to give priority to sustainable applications in the use of the substrate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are serious concerns in Twente and elsewhere about injecting waste water into empty fields and the associated risks to human health and the environment;]] [[calls on the Government not to make irreversible decisions on waste water injection into empty gas or oil fields and to leave these decisions to the next cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-102]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u192	Mr. Chairman. I have two short questions. The first is about the Dutch Practice Directive. The programme of the National Coordinator Groningen is currently based on the old practice directive of 2015. The plan runs until 2021. I would ask the Minister to do it on the basis of the new Dutch Practice Directive and to ask Mr Alders to adapt that plan accordingly. The second question is: have I heard correctly that the Minister is prepared to comply with my request for information, which was supported by the VVD, the PvdA, D66 and other parties, at least before the next formation? I would like to have a concrete roadmap on the table for the next formation on how you could come to a reduction in gas extraction and what the SodM will find. We are constantly talking about 12 billion cubs and I ask the Minister to clarify this. How could you get there? What's it gonna take?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u194	Mr. Chairman. Groningen's asking for a signal today. The signal about safety ahead, about gas extraction further down, about the NAM from the system, about rushing with reinforcement and about pulling together, for Groningen. As far as D66 is concerned, we all do. That is why we have signed a motion that will soon be tabled by Mr Vos on our behalf. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister about 'the further reduction of gas production'. Is he willing to work out what that looks like in a concrete plan? He has already outlined a number of things which had to do with reducing demand, but I would very much appreciate it if he would also elaborate it in a concrete plan for phasing out gas extraction, including the SodM's opinion on the 12 bcm. I also have a question about waste disposal. The Minister said the mind is not standing still. I'm very happy about that. But if you want to invest in a pilot as a company, you must of course also have a perspective on a period when a decision on the injection is being considered again. That is now a term of six years. I think that's a long time. Can the Minister, after three years, re-examine whether the state of technology is now such that we could possibly come to a different conclusion? I conclude with a promise to the Groningen people: you can rely on us. And then I guess I'm talking about the whole room. We want to deal with this problem with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u195	Mr. Chairman. After four years of debate about Groningen, after four years of hacking, after four years of delay, delay and investigations, there is now finally a Chamber-wide motion that will be tabled by Mr Vos. This reduces the extraction of gas and removes the NAM from the damage process. I am also particularly pleased that, after four years, we have managed to get a buy-out arrangement finally drawn up. There's a chamber-wide motion. The Chamber agrees. And not just for the 37 poignant cases, but for anyone who wants to leave the area. The minister doesn't want it yet, but the entire Chamber is supporting it now. We will hold the minister and the new minister and the new chamber to this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u196	Mr. Chairman. I'll file two motions first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the great unrest in Twente over waste water injection;]] [[Whereas the decision on the Minister's evaluation does not take any steps towards a fundamentally better treatment of waste water, such as treatment;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of the evaluation, to include the condition in NAM's permit that it should launch a pilot for the treatment of waste water from the Schoonebeek field within two years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to use tilt meters in the zero measurement carried out in relation to gas extraction in Oppenhuizen, so that they are involved in monitoring the possible consequences of this gas extraction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-104]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u197	I'll be back in Limburg. I understand from our people in Limburg that people who had previously applied for compensation have been rejected on the basis of the previous fund. They must re-apply because the criteria have been extended. Now is our wish, our request: can these people simply make the same request and then can the assessment be made on the basis of those broader criteria? Those people have had so much trouble because of this. Would the Minister agree to that? I have another question about the conversion of industry. At what time could this possibly happen more quickly in Groningen? Then we can further reduce the gas extraction. Would the Minister perhaps like to comment on that, as well as on the group risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u198	Mr President, my first term sounded like a farewell speech, according to you. I didn't mean to, but you're gonna look back a little when you're in front of a room change. Our name, the name of the SP, is also under the motion that Mr Jan Vos will be reciting shortly. I'm glad there's a very large group of people under here. I can only see Mrs Ouwehand not standing under it, but she will explain that. As far as the SP is concerned, it is a start-up bid, a low bid, because if it comes to negotiations at some point after the elections, then it must be firm. And solid is 12 billion cuub at the end of the next cabinet period. Sturdy also means that in case of damage we do not continue to work with contour cards, not with A-, B- and C-damages, not with protocols and stuff. I just felt a slight hesitation when the Minister began to say again: we are not going to compensate for the damage done to people who are not entitled to it. That is precisely the point, because a lot of people suffer damage but fall outside the contour or end up in a Kafkaesque route where they don't know who's standing up for them at some point and who's not. Finally, I wonder if the Minister has seen the movie The silent quake and what he thinks about it, because that movie shows how the area really is, what lives in the area and how people feel day in, day out. That's not to be underestimated. How does the Minister feel about that? And what does he think of the Prime Minister's performance at Jinek not so long ago? We all have less performances. I'd still like to get his vision on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u199	Mr Smaling asked for an explanation. I will also sign the joint motion, but I also have my own motions, because the things mentioned in Mr Jan Vos' motion are good but also a little vague. We can't send the Groningen home with false expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u200	Then you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u201	I'd like to say something about that. We have, of course, had consultations with all the groups on how we would do this. There is also very clear "no chops" on that plea. I think this is a pity, because that is going to give rise to the suggestion that only the Party for Animals will stand up for the people in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u202	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u203	I'd like to fight that signal, because that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u204	No, Mrs. Ouwehand. The debate went very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u205	In that sense, I find it a pity. Let me be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u206	Shall we leave it at that, Mrs Ouwehand? 'Cause it's too bad, since everyone warned about chopping. Anyway, a brief remark without entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u207	I don't think it's in any way chop-chop when you make proposals that are concrete. I support the joint motion, but it is therefore a motion under which the Animal Party stands together with the VVD. I also think it would be a good idea if we also put forward proposals which make it clear that there are differences between the parties, so that Groningers know what they can count on and perhaps not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u208	Yeah, but we always have differences here. That is why we are different parties. Now we bring it up once to stand under such a motion and then the Party for the Animals will follow its own route again!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u210	I could have done that, too. I could have tabled motions for 12 billion in the coming years. They will then be discouraged and then voted away. We will have elections in a month's time and we will still have this joint motion. I would like to express my disappointment at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u211	You made that very clear. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u212	Mr. Chairman. Mr Vos will shortly present a Chamberwide motion, which includes the Christian Union. We welcome the unity that the Chamber radiates with that. That motion is a good basis but also a bit economical. She gives me a bit of a double feeling, doesn't she? As Mrs Ouwehand said, she is little concrete. Yet the Christian Union says: it is moving in the right direction. I support Mr Smaling, who also wants to move forward, like the Christian Union, when he says that we want to radiate unity here and not a bite. I would like to thank the Minister for his verbal commitment to look together with the National Coordinator at how local subcontractors can talk directly to the CVW about strengthening and risky building elements, and to look at bottlenecks in housing values, business insurance and legal expenses insurance. We will certainly remind the new Minister for Economic Affairs of this. As I said, the Christian Union would like to move on. We want a clear phasing-out plan to 12 billion cubic metres. Safety and damage prevention must be at the forefront. There needs to be more legal support for residents in damage handling and fair access for small, local contractors to the elements I mentioned. But for now, unit comes first. We will support the House-wide motion to show the Groningen people that the entire Chamber is behind them, that the gas extraction will be reduced and that their safety is paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u213	Mr. Chairman. If the Chamber decides that the extraction of gas must be reduced, the Party for Animals would like to make it concrete. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current natural gas extraction decision is valid for five years;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the extraction decision for five years;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a clear phasing-out plan for natural gas extraction in the Netherlands with concrete intermediate targets for the coming years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan for a "general pardon" for all existing damages cases in Groningen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the extraction of gas in Groningen poses significant risks to residents;]] [[calls on the Government, from the precautionary principle, to develop scenarios on gas extraction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need to adapt the structure of the gas building according to the Security Research Council;]] [[noting that the cabinet is discussing the revision of the gas building with Shell and ExxonMobil and will not comment on it;]] [[calls on the Government to cease talks with Shell and ExxonMobil and to achieve a fundamental review of the gas building in a transparent, independent manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-106]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-107]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-108]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u214	Finally. I have not seen the submission of proposals by an individual group seen as political whining. We're making proposals for the Groningen people. You can be for or against that, but it's not more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u215	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Jan Vos. Oh, Mr. Smaling would like to respond first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u216	I kind of see this as entrapment. Mrs Ouwehand states that the SP only supports the central motion. As far as I am concerned, I would point out that it has to go further, but I am using my deadline for this. It's not a hard agreement that we're just gonna support that one motion. Mrs Ouwehand is now on a path which gives the impression that only the Party for Animals goes far in her concern for the Groningen. I find that disappointing, because that is not only true for the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u217	That's not what we're trying to do. I sincerely believe that it is not my primary task as a Member of Parliament to radiate together. It's my job to watch out for what's important to the Groningen people. The joint motion contains good points, such as the statement that there should be a buy-out mechanism, but it also states very vaguely that the extraction of gas must be reduced. The VVD can explain that quite differently than the SP; I already know that. They've been messing with the Groningers for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u218	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u219	For those people, you can't stay vague now. I really see it as my job to provide clarity. But that does not affect the efforts of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u220	I think I agree with all the motions that Mrs Ouwehand has just tabled, but many of these motions and legislative proposals have already been tabled and voted away in the past. What does it intend to do to retable these motions? They're probably not gonna make it again. The consensus that was needed today is broken. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u221	You have noted this and shared it with the rest, so I would like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u222	No, Mr. Chairman, I really don't understand. The Chamber declares that the gas extraction must go down. This is the result of a list-leading debate, because the elections are on the way. It is wonderful that we are saying this now, but how the various parties are going to explain it will only become apparent after the elections. I think the Groningers have been messed with for too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u223	That's what you said. Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Jan Vos, who speaks on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u224	Mr. Chairman. There's a debt of honor to Groningen. I think everyone feels that way. And as Mrs Van Veldhoven put it very nicely, we need to build a new basis for the future with each other. That is why, on behalf of almost all the parties in this Chamber, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[that Groningen has made an urgent appeal to national politics to improve the position of the Groningers affected by gas extraction;]] [[the catastrophic consequences of the extraction of natural gas in Groningen;]] [[that the identification and handling of the mining damage by the NAM has often been poor, which has resulted in endless and powerless waiting;]] [[Speaks:]] [[the need to further reduce gas extraction;]] [[that the NAM is to be removed from the claims settlement process, in full the civil liability of the NAM in accordance with the Mining Act;]] [[the need for a buy-out scheme for all those who wish to leave the area;]] [[that everything must be done to regain the confidence of the Groningen people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Jan Vos, Bosman, Klever, Smaling, Agnes Mulder, Van Veldhoven, Bruins, Van Tongeren, Dijkgraaf, Klein, Krol and Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32849-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u225	This motion was also signed on behalf of my colleagues Bosman, Klever, Smaling, Agnes Mulder, Van Veldhoven, Bruins, Van Tongeren, Dijkgraaf, Klein, Krol and Ouwehand. I would like to thank my colleagues very much for their cooperation. There is an expensive duty for the cabinet, and I think also for the reformers, in the next period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u226	Mr. Chairman. This is the 127th energy debate of this minister in plenary and probably the last with the current energy speakers in plenary. I would like to thank the Minister for his cooperation and information. I welcome the commitments to address concerns regarding subcontractors and communication by the National Coordinator Groningen. It's important it's been picked up. It was also important today to hang out together. Many Groningers have come to The Hague to say that we must get out of this together and we must all take steps in this. That is why I welcome this joint motion, which at least radiates it and which lays the foundations for actually taking those steps. It is an important signal to the next cabinet to put it on the agenda, to speak clearly about it and to make good agreements on it. While this cabinet may have been attacked by the Groningen problem, the next cabinet must set the frameworks and have the ambition to solve the problems in Groningen, in order to do justice to what happened in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u227	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u228	Mr. Chairman. In her motion in part No. 102 Mrs Van Tongeren said that priority should be given to sustainable applications in the use of subsurface. I have said that in this subsurface there are energy interests in the broad sense, that there are drinking water interests and that the Netherlands, as the first country in the world, has created a framework for weighing these interests against each other in terms of future developments, and that we still have a certain amount of... Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I have a very bad cough. You're getting sick and I'm just getting better. That's the difference. The Netherlands has taken the lead to planologically regulate things for the subsurface as well so that there is a framework for trade-offs. Because we will have to continue to use fossil energy to some extent in the next few decades, it is necessary to make that assessment objective and not to say in advance that it takes precedence over the other. I think that the whole structural vision has been created to do this in a good way and within a good framework. I therefore reject Mrs Van Tongeren's motion. In her second motion, in part No. 103, she and Mrs Mulder asked the government not to take irreversible decisions on what she called "waste water injection into empty gas or oil fields." I am talking about "injection of production water"; it is 99.97% salt water. Two permits have been granted for this purpose by the Deputy State of Overijssel and one permit has been granted by my predecessor as Minister of Economic Affairs for an indefinite period. That's a fact. There is a possibility to evaluate once every six years. I brought that up early. I have now considered whether within the existing permit there was the possibility of doing something more environmentally friendly than the permit requires. The evaluation showed that this was not the case. I have drawn that conclusion from the evaluation; that is my job. In addition, these licences shall remain in place for an indefinite period. The conditions for this will also continue to apply. So I don't make separate decisions about that. That is why I reject this motion by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mrs Mulder. Mrs van Tongeren also asked about the NPR. She said: you have an old NPR and there's going to be a new NPR; is the National Coordinator going to take that new NPR into account? We have an NPR. There's gonna be an update on that NPR. It's not a new one. It's an update. The National Coordinator will certainly continue on the basis of that update. We are constantly trying to find out and develop things further. Based on the latest insights and beliefs, we try to do our work as well as possible. This will also be the case. I can confirm that to Mrs Van Tongeren. She had also understood that I would come up with a plan to cut back on gas. We have now set a period in the mining decision where it has been said: this is now the minimum, but we are going to look every year at whether there is new information that would give us a new insight in the interim, which would require us to consider a new decision. Moreover, I said that after the period from now until 2021, i.e. from 2020-2021, the annual reduction of 2 billion in demand for security of supply will take place. That's the analysis I made. I shared it with the room, too. That is what I can and want to do at this point. That is the explanation I gave in the first term, and I can only repeat it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u229	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u230	It's actually a question. The magic number 12 sings everywhere. A number of parties, including mine, have in their accounts that we can finance it to go that way, but then you want to know what's possible and when it's safe. Is the Minister prepared to ask the SodM to take a look at this, without prejudging a final decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u231	The SodM is watching all the time. This is constantly involved in developments. It has also been given more and more information over the last few years and has done more and more research, and adapted its own findings to the new insights. Indeed, in 2013 a piece was discussed about 12 billion, but after that other things were advised. It is recommended that the extraction at Loppersum be returned as much as possible. It has now been specifically advised to find the right balance between low extraction and flat extraction. According to the SodM, it came at 24. I did that. It means that the SodM will certainly not be put out of play. In the future, too, I will ask the SodM for advice on developments and on assessments to be made and we will consider the insights of the SodM. Mrs Van Veldhoven also spoke about the situation in Twente. She said six years is too long, but those six years are in the permits for an indefinite period. On the basis of good governance and case law, I can deviate from the provisions of those permits if they lead to better environmental results. I have studied this very well, with an EIA and with everything I've done, I've done an unprecedented amount to find out, and it doesn't come out at all that environmental hygiene can do better than it is now in the permits. So I don't have a title right now to shorten those six years. However, on the basis of what has been developed at Delft University of Technology and Salttech, I have said: it is not developed and it costs too much electricity, but I will be working with the Water and Knowledge Institutions top sector in the coming years to see how that develops. If there is new information from this which leads me to conclude that it is possible that it is environmentally better to do it differently, then we should be open to doing so. In the meantime, I certainly won't stand in the way of the pilots. I can't do that right now. I'll help you move that forward. If a pilot makes sense, it will certainly take place. The permit conditions do not need to be changed separately. I can't do that right now. But that will happen in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u232	A short question or response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u233	What the Minister says, I understand. All I ask him is that after three years the thermometer be put back into the state of the art and at that time assess whether the technique has been developed to the extent that there is a further reason to look at the permits again. I asked the Minister that question. So I did not ask to evaluate the entire permit after three years. I said keep track of the state of the art, take a look at it after three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u234	That seems to me to be a good suggestion from Mrs Van Veldhoven. This means that after three years we must say what has happened in the last three years on this subject and how we judge it. That is what we need to discuss with the Chamber. I'd be happy to admit it. Mrs. Klever hasn't brought in any of the things I need to respond to right now. I'm coming to see Mrs. Mulder now. She's filed two motions. In her motion in part No. 104, co-signed by Mrs Van Tongeren, asks the government to include in the terms of the licence a pilot. I have just said the necessary thing to Mrs Van Veldhoven. I therefore advise against what is stated in the motion. The motion in part No. 105 by Mrs Mulder was co-signed by Mr Smaling. In this motion they ask the government to use tilt meters in the gas extraction in Oppenhuizen. I have already said that tilt meters have no function in the extraction of gas in Oppenhuizen. They cannot indicate what is possible to play there. Moreover, I do not intend to prescribe to the SodM and other bodies which measuring instruments they should use. They have the expertise and can best assess it. I don't rule out tilt meters in any way, but I'm not going to say they should be used, especially if I think they don't make sense at some point. That is why I reject this motion by Mrs Mulder and Mr Smaling. Mrs Mulder is still entitled to an answer to her question on the "group risks" in Groningen, as she calls it. She wants to see calculations of that. That's a fair question. Today, after the Meijdam Committee, we call that'social risk'. A deadline has been given, but it's very difficult to calculate. Everyone involved knows that. We have given the NAM a deadline to come up with the calculation of the social risk. That's November 1, 2017. Then the SodM gives an opinion on that. Conclusions will be drawn from this early 2018. From now on it will take about a year. The experts working in this field know what this problem is and what calculations are needed for it. They think this is a reasonable time under the control of the SodM. We shall therefore proceed with this timetable. Mrs Mulder also spoke about industrial conversion. We made an assessment of low-caloric gas about a year ago, I estimate. The results that can be achieved and the expenditure that needs to be incurred are not in proportion to each other. There is no profit there for the problem we are dealing with. That is why, in the current situation, we have come to the conclusion that separate control of industrial conversion should not be carried out. If industry has to rebuild itself, because something has to be done, it can, of course, decide to do so. But the question was whether we should continue to steer it. The conclusion is that we should not. Those were Mrs Mulder's questions. Mr Smaling came up with a few questions. He said that people who are outside the contour will not be compensated for any damage. That's out of the question. For the damage, I have nothing to do with that contour. If you have damage caused by gas extraction, that damage must be compensated. You may have damage that is not caused by gas extraction. If you are further away from the gas extraction and there are other relevant causes that could cause damage, that should simply be looked at in terms of content. If the conclusion is that damage has been caused by gas extraction, the damage will be compensated. Mr Smaling asked me to comment on a film and a television broadcast. I want to stick to the line that I have held for 12 years as a minister, namely that I am not a political commentator. I am not going to comment on television broadcasts, colleagues or films; I am not. I did mention how I looked at everything that's going on in Groningen. I tried to do that in my own words at the beginning. I am very, very aware of everything that has happened and of how it has been experienced, of the injustice felt there and of the need as a government to do justice to what has been done to people. Mrs Ouwehand has tabled four motions. In the motion in part No. 106 she says that the mining decision should be repealed. I don't want to do that. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 107 is about a general's pardon. I said the necessary thing in the first term. On that basis, I also advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 108 Mrs Ouwehand says that the precautionary principle requires the government to develop scenarios for gas extraction. The first is the safety of the people in Groningen and the second is the safety risk. I'm gonna sit at the bottom of that. That's what I've been doing for this entire cabinet period. Every time it was justified to go downstairs, I did. Last but not least, I did so with the 24 billion m. That's what I can do now. I have already outlined what will happen in the future, from the year 2020 onwards, and what can be assessed annually between now and 2020 on the basis of possible new facts and circumstances. The motion in part No. I therefore advise against 108 by Mrs Ouwehand. In the motion in part No. 109 says Mrs Ouwehand that the talks with Shell and Exxon should be stopped. I don't see why it's okay to stop talking. I have already indicated that the gas building dates back to the 1960s, that there is a new situation and that we and they have interests. We have contractual obligations to each other. It is good to discuss this with each other in the light of the current situation. I do not want to anticipate the results, but it is in no one's interest to stop the talks. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. So is Mrs Ouwehand's 109. Mr Vos, together with all the other spokesmen, even from a few political groups which are not present but have nevertheless signed up, has tabled the motion in part No. 110. I note that with this motion the Chamber is trying to lay the groundwork for a subsequent cabinet period, and possibly for negotiation of a government agreement. With the ruling in the motion, the Chamber itself says what should be done. There's no specific request from the cabinet. I have said what I think in the first term and I am therefore not going to provide this motion with a cabinet judgment. I will leave this motion to the Chamber, having heard what I said on behalf of the cabinet and with full conviction in the first term on the various subjects. In doing so, I responded to what the spokesmen put forward in the second term. Thank you for that opportunity, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u235	Mrs. Ouwehand, has there been a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u236	I have a specific question on the joint motion on item No. 110, of which the Minister says not to comment on it. The motion has been signed Chamberwide and will therefore be adopted. So there will be a motion for a resolution in which the Chamber says that gas extraction must be further reduced. I wonder what the Minister will do, partly in view of the discouragement of my motion in part No. 106 with the request to withdraw the gas extraction decision for the next five years. So the Minister doesn't intend to do that. What is he going to do about the motion that has been adopted, which says that gas extraction needs to be reduced further?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u237	The Chamber has not ruled that I should increase seismicity in the area. SodM has said to me: if you are currently sitting below 24 billion m, you run the big risk of increasing seismicity in the area. I just need to narrow down the seismicity in the area. Nor did the Chamber say to me that I should leave part of the Netherlands or the whole of the Netherlands in the cold. The Chamber says that the extraction of gas in Groningen must be reduced. I have made two comments. The first is that there is an annual review of new facts and circumstances. The second is that from 2020 up to 2029 there is a possibility of phasing out on the basis of reduced demand for security of supply to 7 billion m3. Those are the elements I could provide for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u238	We're not going to have that discussion again. This has been discussed extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u239	No, Mr. Chairman, that's the point. What does this statement, which includes my name, mean that gas extraction must be further reduced? I do not think we can make it clear. If I listen to the Minister correctly, he says: a fine statement, but I'm not going to do anything with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u240	What that statement means is a view of the Chamber. The Chamber expresses its opinion on what should be done. I was given the opportunity to respond in the first place. That's what I can add.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u241	It's a chamber-wide verdict. I'm going to go to the time after the election and to install a new cabinet. The Minister heard this statement from the Chamber. I suppose he's acting up to the new cabinet in the light of this motion, isn't he? There is no doubt that the Minister can undertake to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u242	What does Mrs Mulder mean in concrete terms? I have made my contribution to all the points raised in the motion. I have indicated what the expectations and possibilities are and what I have to take into account. I really can't add anything to that. I don't want to try to give smart answers to smart questions either. In the first term, I tried to respond as fully as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u243	I am a little surprised at the Minister's obstinate reaction. We come with this motion and then suddenly the seismicity goes up when we sit under 24. I can remember another figure of the SodM itself, in which 21 billion is already safer than 24 billion, but the SodM has not bothered to pass on the 12 billion m scenario. We are slipping from a slope in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u244	I don't have the impression that the Chamber is slipping off a slope. The Chamber makes a statement that is widely supported. I have already said that the 12 billion in 2013 was mentioned by the SodM in a particular context. Afterwards, the SodM gave a number of other advice on the basis of progressive insight. One of those advices was: you should focus on Loppersum. And now, in order to keep seismicity as low as possible, there is the advice to find a balance between low and flat. The advice of the SodM to me says 24 billion. It's also in the advice of the Mining Council. I'm just giving you the facts. That 24 billion has also been analysed by GTS as the amount of gas you need to prevent parts of the Netherlands from falling into the cold. So I got that involved. That is the substantive response I gave in the first instance on this subject, without denying the Chamber the right to make a joint decision as it intends to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u245	Finally, Mr Jan Vos' final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u246	The Chamber operated together today. I ask the cabinet to act in the spirit of the motion, despite the formal constitutional position that the minister is now in. My request to the Minister is: can he act in the spirit of the motion which has been supported by Parliament today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u247	I think it is necessary, if this statement is made by the Chamber, to discuss it in the Cabinet. We need to see how we can act in the light of the situation that arises after the elections and the practical decisions that are then being taken, in accordance with what the Chamber has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u248	I'm sure the Minister would like to send a letter to our house after the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u249	That goes without saying when the motion is adopted. I'm sure I'll see one of you walking forward to ask for a response to that. Then he comes to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u250	That will only be the case if something else is decided in the cabinet than I have said now. And I have said that I imagine that we are discussing this in the Cabinet and that we are looking at it, in the light of the situation that arises after the elections, how, in the practical situations that may then arise, we can act as a outgoing cabinet in the spirit of this motion. I estimate that will be the outcome of the discussion in the cabinet. If the outcome is different, I will let the Chamber know in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u251	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate. We are not going to have the debate again, Mr Vos!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u252	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I thank the Minister for the commitment that he will discuss the motion in the Cabinet, that he will act in the spirit of the motion and that a letter will otherwise be sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u253	The motion will be put to the vote on Tuesday. Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u254	Mr President, I have a motion on a parliamentary inquiry that has been held. I'll send the number to the Registry, because I'll put that motion to the vote next Tuesday. I think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u255	That brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-15-tweedekamer-6.u256	I thank the Minister. I would like to thank the people in the gallery and all the people in Groningen who have followed this debate through another medium. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
