ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The key to the medicine cabinet is in the hands of the pharmacist in our country, and rightly so. We must be able to rely on the safe delivery of medicines by a professional trained to do so. Among other things, this safety includes that medicinal products should only be given if they have been prescribed by a doctor. Some medicines are covered by the Opium Act, and they are subject to additional requirements regarding the supply of the product and the registration of the stock. These funds are addictive and could also be traded on the illegal circuit. Given the requirements, you would expect this: if a TV program based on a random doctor's false recipe, including a few deliberate errors, including a wrong dosage, were to try to get heavy painkillers at pharmacies where the patient is also unknown, this would not work. But what is our surprise? The TV-program Radar made fifteen attempts with such recipes and received the required resources each time, in ten cases the half-opiate tramadol and in five cases the opiate oxycodone. Both are highly addictive. Oxycodone is even on list I of the Opium Act and is considered a hard drug. The VVD Group is very shocked by these findings. She therefore has the following questions to the Secretary of State. What does the Secretary of State think of Radar's findings? Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that it is unacceptable for half-copyes and opiates to be given on the basis of an obvious false prescription, especially if 15 attempts are made in 15 different pharmacies? Does the Secretary of State share the opinion of the VVD Group that this 100% score suggests that checks on the legality of this type of prescription in pharmacists are insufficient? Is the Secretary of State prepared to instruct the IGZ to investigate this as soon as possible and have the IGZ enforced where necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I think that we have all looked at the broadcast with surprise and sometimes bewilderment. Pharmacists should always assess the delivery of recipes: are they readable, authentic, efficient and rational? In the case of opiates in particular, additional monitoring is necessary. Pharmacies rely on the patient's confidence. When someone comes by with a need for medicine, you don't immediately think: that's probably not right. The provision of care is paramount and therefore also the duty of care of the pharmacist, but that does not mean that this really must be a wake-up call for pharmacists. My view is not that this is going to go wrong on a large scale. Of the 250 million recipes, 60 have been reported to the IGZ as possible forgeries. Of course, that doesn't say everything, but it does say something, namely that things are going well in general. I would also point out that we are increasingly exchanging electronic prescription and information, so that there is in fact no possibility of manual forgery because the doctor immediately reports the prescription to the pharmacist. The patient can then pick up the medicine. This does not alter the fact that extra attention is needed to see whether this can be improved. I am very willing to ask the IGZ to look together with the KNMP at what can be improved and whether further measures are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	In any case, it is good to hear that the Secretary of State shares the concerns and that he is prepared to give the IGZ a mandate to do further research. I think that's necessary, too. I agree with the Secretary of State that many people want to have their medicines quickly and efficiently, with good advice from the pharmacy, and that they would like to be able to go out as soon as possible. That confidence should be there, but the fact that there are only 60 registrations of fraud, while in one week there have been 15 cases of fraud, suggests that fraud registration is not quite in order. It'd be good if the IGZ would check that out, too. A pharmacist isn't a box pusher, it's a health care provider. These include checks on the legality of the distribution of medicinal products. It therefore seems very sensible for the VVD not only to order the IGZ, but also to contact the pharmacist organisation KNMP in the near future in order to find a way of preventing Radar's findings from occurring. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	Besides the fact that I will ask the IGZ what improvements are possible, I would also like to consult with the KNMP. It is right for the profession to take credit for its knowledge of the provision of medicines. The profession can check whether there are contradictions and whether checks are needed, for example whether the doctor is correct. If there are any questions about the recipe, the pharmacist can take an active look at the recipe itself. This seems to me to be something we will discuss with both the IGZ and the KNMP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. People need to be able to trust that medicines are safely provided based on real prescription from a real doctor. This is particularly true of opiates. It is very good to hear that the Secretary of State is taking the action requested. There is one question left for me: when does he intend to inform the Chamber about the outcome of these actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	Of course, I still have to talk to the IGZ and the KNMP, but I intend to inform the Chamber about the outcome before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	If Mr Rutte had not asked these questions, I would have asked the same questions. I very much welcome the undertaking that an investigation will be carried out from the inspection and that the pharmacists' industry will be involved. I think this is important. I would like to put one more question to the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has just indicated that digitisation is very important, but it cannot be done in the case of drugs on the opium list. Will the Secretary of State please take this particular point? If this is a solution to tackle fraud without making the work more difficult for pharmacists, we should consider whether digitisation can also apply to medicines listed in the Opium Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	I am very willing to take that with me, but I would like to make a comment. Digitisation helps because electronic prescription does not cause write errors, so that there can be no discussion about them. But not every GP is digitally connected to every pharmacy. People should be able to choose which pharmacy they want to go to. This means that a patient sometimes asks for a printout of the electronically prescribed prescription, so that he can go to the pharmacy of his choice. However, Mrs Bergkamp is absolutely right. Digitisation can help, and that is why I am very willing to take this point with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	Digitisation is particularly well regulated within the region. She's regionalized. It is easy for general practitioners to send prescriptions digitally to pharmacists within the region. Can the Secretary of State say a little more about developments outside these regions? I understand from general practitioners that the digital provision of prescriptions outside the region is still complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	The linking of the infrastructure of the general practitioners with that of pharmacists in the region is easy because you know each other's systems and you can also make agreements about them. Outside the region the weather is different, although you also have something like just the Internet and you can check if you can exchange things that way, if safe. It's a bit of a balance between the security that's needed and the appointments you have to make versus what else can be arranged. You remember the incident that surprised us that the fax was still being used; yes, it still exists! That's more of a matter of being safe. I will ask the inspection to take the state of the country with regard to digitisation outside the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, after which we shall vote.
