ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The poison of exclusion sneaks into our organization. These were the words of the recently deceased police chief Gerard Bouman about his own police organisation in 2015. Mr Bouman also spoke in a blog about colleagues who are excluded and belittled by other agents. The chief of police warned against a breach of trust between the police and part of society in 2015. A supervisor who asks a colleague with a beard in front of dozens of policemen if he is sometimes radicalising. Colleagues who talk with each other without any hesitation about the fucking Muslims and that these mosques should only be torched. For the record, Mr President, these are not my words. It's cops saying this. It's these cops who screw it up for their colleagues who are committed to our safety with heart and soul. Against this background, reports appeared Saturday in the AD about an investigation at the police organisation. It says that the image of the police in young people with a migration background is extremely bad. The research concludes that there are hardly any potential agents with a migration background left. With these new figures, the breach of confidence that Gerard Bouman warned about two years ago seems to be true. I would like to ask the Minister the following questions. Is it true that the people questioned in the investigation indicate that the police mostly have a racist and discriminatory image? Does this scare him as much as I do? What is the Minister going to do to make the police organisation an employer where there is room for all Dutch people? Is it true that Chief Constable Erik Akerboom indicated that in 2018 25% of the influx agents should be with a migration background?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Azarkan refers to a publication in the Algemeen Dagblad earlier this week in which a police investigation is cited in relation to the picture of potential applicants for police work; a subject that we have often discussed in this Chamber. The subject is also important enough. The study shows that of the target group young people who could potentially work among immigrants 56% say they do not want to work in the police force and 31% among natives. This is a considerable difference although there are people in both groups who have a different ambition than to work in the police. That doesn't seem surprising to me either. Mr Azarkan then asks me if I think there should be a police station for all Dutch people. He already knows my answer because we've talked about it a lot, but I'd like to say it again. I think it is crucial that the composition of the police, without compromising the quality, is a reflection of the Dutch population, so that every origin, every belief there is welcome, that gays are welcome, that lesbians are welcome there, as we all accept in the Netherlands. We set quality standards for certain professions, but we make sure that everyone is really welcome and that the police are a reflection of the Dutch people, because then you can do your job best. Whether it's about tackling the common crime, terrorism or everything in between, you're more effective as a police when you have a cross-section of the population. Mr Azarkan asked whether it was true that the Chief Constable's objective, Mr Akerboom, was 25% ethnic influx. With my full support, Mr Akerboom has an objective of 25% inflow with a diversity background. That could be ethnic, that could be gay, that could be lesbian, that could be an unusual professional background. However great the value of the traditional career pattern, starting after school at the Police College, it is also very important that people with a financial background should flow into people who can understand organised crime and those with an ICT background that can understand cybercrime. So we are talking about 25% influx of people from different backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. You're giving us a different number. Is it true that the report states that only 12% of the Antilian-Dutch young people and 15% of Moroccan-Dutch young people consider it possible to work in the police force one day, compared with 39% of young people without a migration background? Do you know those numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u4	I didn't memorize the report. I know that the totals are as they have just been mentioned: the 56% among the immigrant population and the 31% among the indigenous population. I'm fine with it. In the autumn, as usual, I will give you a progress report on the national police. Then I'll add the report. I can then go into these figures a little more in depth. Some of the young people say they'd rather be carpenters or pilots than police officers, and that's allowed in a free country. For me, the crux is that that is a relatively larger proportion among the immigrant young people. That's why the police have modified her recruitment on a number of points. It's not for nothing that she's having an investigation like this. If you have the ambition to recruit more people from different backgrounds, you also need to know where possible barriers are. Are those images, is it the training or is it something else? The picture is that there is a difference in the perception between native and immigrant young people. Due to the importance of diverse staff, the ambition remains and targeted recruitment measures are taken to give the police a more mixed composition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u5	I can see that the Minister is hiding behind the idea: it has to be much more diverse and it is going quite nicely. I do not see that the Minister feels the urgency to really want to do something. I think the Minister has two choices. Either he keeps mopping with the crane open with half solutions or there will be really decisive solutions that will put an end to ethnic profiling, stereotype jokes, exclusion, racism and discrimination within the police. I really think it's time to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Azarkan is completely ignoring the debate we are having here. I'm all for diversity. This applies both to origin and to gays and lesbians. They're all part of it, including the police. It also applies to people with a different education. Diversity by ethnic origin is important, but is not the only one. It is important, and that is why research has been carried out. But I miss Mr Azarkan's contribution that he says: we also like it when gays and lesbians join the police and when people of different origin join the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mr Azarkan. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u8	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u9	No? Thank you. Mrs Özütok, GroenLinks has already asked questions. Mrs Buitenweg asked two questions. I give the floor to Mrs Van Engelshoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I very much agree with the Minister that the better the police is a reflection of society, the more effective it can operate and that we therefore need to pay attention to diversity in the police in full width. I very much agree with that. We have had debates on this before. There are really good steps to be taken at the moment. Nevertheless, the report by Motivation.. I hope that we as a Chamber still have cause for concern.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Does the Minister not agree with me that it would be a good idea for the police to pay attention to diversity among young people in secondary schools and to link it better with young people with a non-Western background in order to attract interest in the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mrs Van Engelshoven is right in saying that the report gives rise to action. That was also the purpose of the report. A logical route is to influence the image of the police as an employer who is attractive to everyone in education, where potential men and women, new agents, are wandering around. Mrs Van Engelshoven asked if the Chamber would receive the report. I suggest that we send this along with the progress report this autumn. I shall then go into more detail on the measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u12	I have just been deeply disturbed by the Minister's last reply to Mr Azarkan's question. Because every time we put this issue on the agenda, even in the previous period, the example of homosexuals and lesbians in the police force is given. I want to make it clear once and for all that my party stands for all forms of diversity. That's also about this issue. So I never want to hear this frame of a ruler again, in which the problem of diversity and culture within the police organisation is snowed under. I therefore have another very specific question for the Minister. We see an atmosphere of racism and discrimination in the police. It's gonna be commonplace, and then there's gonna be action. Then there's got to be an approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u13	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u14	The question is this. The Minister should start working on an approach to improve that culture within the organisation. That should not be just words. That must also be done in action. When is the Minister finally going to start doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Azarkan's question dealt exclusively with ethnic diversity. That was why I dealt with other aspects of diversity, such as gays and lesbians and a different background. I am only very pleased that this is now being supported. Then we agree. For example, the action we are taking is why we are standing here: this research has been carried out in the context of this action. What are the images that live with young people and how can we influence them? As I said earlier, Chief Constable Akerboom, with my full support, is aiming at 25% influx of people from various backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u16	A number of police leaders are aware that diversity is incredibly important for the quality of police work, but they also note that it is not self-evident. At the same time, there are also police leaders who do not realise that diversity does not come naturally and that it is necessary. My question, therefore, is whether the progress report published in this autumn, which the new police minister will have to work on, also looks at cultural and managerial aspects that play a role in promoting diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mrs Kuik is right in saying that executives are very strong about whether the atmosphere in the team is so that everyone feels at home. I know that there are training courses in that, but I will also be happy to go into this in more detail in the autumn report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
