ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the VAO Telecom Council. The 29th was your AO, I understand. A warm word of welcome, also to the Secretary of State. Thank you for joining us. We have four speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Paternotte. Like everyone else, he has two minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the next decade we will be nowhere without 5G. It is the absolute prerequisite for the innovations of the next ten years: the self-driving car, drones and the Internet of Things. And the Netherlands, Europe's fastest growing economy, can only lead the way. The European Commission has set out an action plan for this and rightly so, because the roll-out of 4G in Europe was far too slow. In 2015, two years ago, three quarters of Americans had 4G and only a quarter of Europeans. We cannot afford such a slow roll-out again. The Action Plan includes the ambition that all Member States will publish their 5G cities next year. Those are the cities that already have 5G live in 2020. The Commission expects countries to publish their cities before 2018. So far, the Netherlands did not want to name cities and not participate in this ambition. As far as we are concerned, we must do so. We hope to find the new Secretary of State on our side. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the deployment of very high capacity communication networks is necessary to maximise the growth potential of the digital economy;]] [[Whereas more and more companies and industries need to be able to rely on gigabit connectivity to make and maintain their business models future-proof;]] [[Whereas there is a European objective to offer 5G connectivity as a commercial service in at least one city per Member State by 2020;]] [[whereas the Netherlands is and should remain one of the European leaders in connectivity;]] [[noting that the EU expects each Member State to have designated a 5G city by the end of 2018;]] [[noting that there is also interest from high-tech cities such as Enschede and Eindhoven;]] [[Calls on the Government to encourage and support all interested potential 5G cities so that there are one or more Dutch 5G cities in 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Weverling, Mr Bruins, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-33-676]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u3	That's changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u4	That's changed. That's okay. Mr. Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From our constructive role of opposition, I am very pleased with the good cooperation with the friends of the coalition on this dossier. I'm talking about the roll-out of 5G. I am therefore delighted to be under Mr Paternotte's motion. Soon Mr Weverling will also table a motion which I wholeheartedly support. This has to do with the fact that we in Parliament are keen to see a rapid roll-out. This is important for our economy, for our competitiveness, but also for the huge transition we are facing when it comes to tackling climate change and the energy transition. I would like to emphasise this in particular. 73 million tonnes of CO could be saved in the Netherlands with optimal use of digital applications. For this reason, too, I would like to see progress and support both motions. I would like to make one other point. This is what we discussed in general consultation this morning. Nevertheless, I would like to call on the Secretary of State to think about the whole entrance of the Netherlands and Belgium to the article on the approach to duopolies. Are you sure it's wise to go through with that? Is it not better to follow the solution put forward by the European Parliament, if only to speed up this dossier and thus clarify it for large investors who will soon have to provide the capital to achieve this roll-out throughout Europe? I hope you will take my call to the Council in Brussels later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u6	And "you" is the Secretary of State, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That is indeed through you the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u8	Very good. Mrs. Van den Berg from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Van der Lee has just correctly indicated the importance of the digital developments. That's why the CDA supports both Mr. Weverling's motion and Mr. Paternotte's motion. Digital development must prevail, but it is also important to be able to protect citizens in their use. In that case, we would like to ask another question about the e-privacy regulation. We wholeheartedly support that regulation. Of course, it is important for the end user to give consent before certain data can be processed. On the other hand, we would also like to stress that the companies that make all these beautiful, new, innovative and user-friendly applications should be able to further improve and develop those applications and also to create new applications. They can't if they can't have that data. The Secretary of State wishes to maintain a restrictive list of exceptions when it comes to the question of which data companies can use. How does the Secretary of State intend to ensure that, on the one hand, those companies can continue to do their work and, on the other hand, that the end user remains protected and therefore has to give permission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u10	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Weverling from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for being so clear in her reply this morning in general consultation and for the fact that there is so much consensus between the parties, as Mr Van der Lee said. The Secretary of State also endorses that. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is important that the follow-up steps be clarified quickly, so that the market can prepare itself for the auctions and the investments involved this morning. One of the most important things we need to know is when which auction will take place. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the roll-out of 5G as well as the auction of various megahertz bands is of great importance for connectivity in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy considers the importance and role of the market to be important in this roll-out and auctions;]] [[Whereas several countries are already engaged in the auctions of various megahertz bands and thus the roll-out of 5G;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should not lose its leading position in the field of high-quality connectivity;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Chamber with an insight into the intended dates for auctioning both the 700, 2,100 and the 3,500 megahertz bands and the interrelationship between those intended auctioning moments;]] [[invites the Government to send this summary to the Chamber by the spring 2018 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Weverling, Mr Paternotte, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-33-677]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u12	Thank you. So much for the Chamber's term. Two motions have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u13	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll go into the motions. The motion in part No. 676 members Paternotte, Weverling, Bruins, Van der Lee and Van den Berg deal with potential 5G cities. We shared extensively this morning that 5G is very important; it is of the utmost importance that this is also rolled out. Several cities and areas are working on specific connectivity projects. Amsterdam, for example, wants to make 5G applications around the Amsterdam Arena possible as a playground for the EK 2020. In the port of Rotterdam, several companies are working on specific mobile solutions and a safe network for business is being considered. Schiphol is also working on this. In cities such as Eindhoven and Enschede, the technology behind 5G is being developed and in the context of 5Groningen, experiments are being carried out with various applications. I support that, too. It is therefore my expectation that the most modern technology will be available in several cities by 2020, but also in other areas such as the port and the outskirts. My role is to have the right framework conditions in order, such as the availability of sufficient spectrum and a policy framework for investment security. It is good to say here that the European Commission's plan is not so much about identifying cities as about identifying them. That's why I'm also expanding the national frequency auction in autumn 2019 and working on making other, even higher frequency bands available, such as the 3.5GHz and the 26GHz. With this I support all the different cities in possible applications of 5G. I therefore take encouraging, as expressed in the motion, as a follow-up to the action plan as a support for policy. I will therefore leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Paternotte, one question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u16	Until now, it has been so called "Telecommunication Paper" that the Ministry didn't want to name a city that could be 5G city by 2020. My question is whether you will do so next year. You call it "identifying." I would also ask you to discuss with your German colleague at the Telecom Council how the German government supports Berlin in this ambition, because next year it will call Berlin the 5G city of that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u17	To stimulate, as stated in the motion, I take it in such a way that I will discuss the possibilities and see if there are any obstacles that can be removed. For that, of course, I also need to talk to the mentioned cities and other cities that are still reporting for it. But I'm having some trouble pointing out a city. Anyway, I have to choose, and of course all cities are just as sweet to me. So I think it would be much better, and that also fits in with what Mr Paternotte is trying to do, to see where we can encourage cities that want to encourage it and that we will talk to them about it instead of making some sort of wagers and pointing out a city. I think that would be a failure to take the initiative of the cities and the will of the cities to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u18	Fine, the motion in part No. 677.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u19	Can I ask you another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u20	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u21	What about a correction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u22	If it's a point of order, in this case. But it must be a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u23	Not necessarily of order, but at least no one has used the word 'instruction'. It is important that the city it will then be in 2020 also has 5G live throughout the city and not only in a part of the city at a stadium or port.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u24	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u25	The second motion, in part No. 677, as you also mentioned, is from Mr Weverling, Mr Paternotte and Mr Van der Lee. This motion is in line with the commitment I made during the AA, namely that I will include this information in the Note Mobile Communication and send it to the Chamber. The Note Mobile Communication is the policy framework within which I will issue the 700, 1,400 and 2,100MHz and 3,5GHz bands. I'm sorry about all the technique, but that's the subject. The concept of the Nota Mobile Communication was publicly consulted on the Internet at the beginning of this year and can also be seen in it. In the final note, I will give as much clarity as possible as to when those bands will become available and the conditions under which they will be made available. The auction of 700, 1,400 and 2,100MHz tyres will take place in 2019. In the Note Mobile Communication I will give the Chamber an insight into the current use and considerations that need to be made around that band specifically for the 3.5GHz band. As described in the progress letter to your Chamber for the note of 3 July 2017, I will complete the note once the advice I have requested from the ACM has been finalised. The ACM has recently consulted a concept of its advice, but is still in the process of completing it. Unless the ACM has not completed its advice for the Spring Note, you can expect the requested summary on the deadline you requested. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u27	Then there was a question from Mrs Van den Berg. She asked me how to ensure a good connection between innovation and protection in the context of e-privacy. In Mrs van den Berg's words, I am listening to the concern that it will at some point become so complicated for business, that innovation will stand in the way. So here is actually a contradiction between the importance of business and the protection of privacy, while at the same time innovation can also be in the interests of consumers. However, the importance of privacy is paramount in the EU Privacy Regulation, because you never know in advance what is on peripheral equipment. So you're gonna have to be protective of that where it's absolutely necessary. Where innovation improvements are at stake, people can, of course, always approve them. These plans also make it possible to make it easier in the future. That brings me to the end of my reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u28	And that brings us to the end of this debate. Thank you for joining us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-8.u29	Next Tuesday, no, tomorrow we will vote on both motions. I'm suspending until the 7:00 clock. Then we continue with the infrastructure and water budget.
