ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now turn to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66. He has a question on data collection of citizens to the Minister for Legal Protection, whom I would also like to welcome in section K.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. What a lively Question Time thanks to the contribution of the SP. That's good to see. I'd like to talk about digitization. The world is digitizing at a rapid rate. Think of big data, blockchain, cryptocoins, the internet of things, artificial intelligence, robotization and automation, drones and self-driving cars, and of course also smart industry and smart cities. These developments, of course, all offer opportunities, convenience and fun, but there is also a downside to this technology. That's what we talk about a lot in this room. One of them is the undermining of our privacy and the restriction of our freedom, by commercial companies, but also increasingly by a controlling government. Mr. Chairman. A not so often heard example of this is digital cities, i.e. smart cities. This phenomenon is rapidly gaining ground. These are smart cities that are full of sensors, trackers and cameras to monitor traffic flows, to coordinate parking capacity, to measure downtown visits, to control noise and light and to increase safety. Those all look like great goals. It's also a bit of a hype among aldermen. As an alderman, you used to start a real estate project as a local totem pole. These days, you're going digital. It often seems very targeted, but there is often little clarity about the agreements with the suppliers of these instruments and devices. Municipalities themselves often don't even know where all these devices are and what data they collect. Utrecht knows only a quarter of its projects and Rotterdam doesn't even know where all these Wi-Fi trackers are. In other words: those smart cities are a lot like black boxes. Mr. Chairman. I have some questions for this Minister of Privacy. What does he think of the smart-city hype? Does he think there's some kind of wild growth? To what extent is his ministry involved in these local initiatives? And is there enough grip, or are smart cities going to be the next ICT drama in the government? I'd like him to answer that when he's done writing along, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr President, thank you. Smart cities are a topical theme. There are indeed a lot of municipalities that do something with that. Moreover, I have the impression that in the cities you mention, D66 is also in the colleges of mayor and aldermen. I can also imagine, because it is a very new, modern way to deal with a lot of issues in your city. Moreover, I have the impression that D66 also thinks these issues are important. Think of environmental zones, for example. Besides, you have to keep track of who's going into and out of your city. Think about how you make sure cars don't drive around the city endlessly. You might be able to help by showing me where there's another parking spot in a garage. Or: how do we make sure that the light masts don't burn if there's no need because there's no one on the street? Those are light towers that detect movement and can respond to it. Fortunately, modern technology offers a lot of opportunities in this respect. So I wouldn't like to talk about hype or wild growth. On the contrary, I think it is very sensible for municipalities to reflect on these new developments. It is important, however, that Mr Verhoeven's concern is that, in all these applications of new technology, consideration should always be given to how to deal with the subject of privacy. The article in Trouw, to which you refer, talks about different techniques. Some of them do not really do that much with the processing of personal data. Then you talk a lot more about things like motion detectors. But some do process personal data. It just needs to be properly monitored. There is also a legal framework: the Personal Data Protection Act and from May European legislation, which is even more stringent. And the Personal Data Authority will see to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	Of course, I think it is very positive that we are running more and more municipalities. It is also nice that the Minister reminds me of that. I'm a dual-minded person, though. So I check not only this minister but also things in the country that are not going well, even if D66 directors are involved in the local administration. I can also see that it is a positive development that more and more digital opportunities are being exploited. However, I would like to go into two more details. First of all, the fact that a lot of municipalities do not know where these sensors are, is quite a strange situation. So you don't have an overview in your own town of where all these devices are. Shouldn't people be warned by the congregation? And how can municipalities warn if they don't even know where those devices are? I would like an answer to that question anyway. The second is about the safety of these devices. We have talked here about the Internet of Things: all things connected to the Internet. Often they are consumer goods that are not safe. But this is also about products from manufacturers who simply want to sell their products to municipalities. These producers are not always interested in safe products. They simply want to sell as many products as possible. Aldermen may be sensitive to beautifully reflective projects, which they will have to implement quickly. So what about the safety of these products? I'd like to know more about that. Where are they? Shouldn't the municipalities know? And how safe are those devices?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	Let me start with the latter: safety. Perhaps that also refers to the ICT debacle Mr Verhoeven mentioned. I really think it is a local responsibility of aldermen: if they spend money on a project, they should also think carefully about whether it is well-spent. Fortunately, we have very critical municipal councils in the Netherlands, which have to keep their aldermen sharp on that point. I don't rule out the fact that there's sometimes an alderman who puts money into a project that fails fatally. I'd think that was stupid and a waste of local money. But the city council is at that time the appropriate authority to spit an alderman on his jacket for that. It is then about an overview of all the techniques available in a city. There's a lot of them, of course. I don't know if the municipality is the appropriate authority to map that completely. Any processor, whether that is a government, a company or a shop with Wi-Fi tracking where you walk, is covered by the Personal Data Protection Act. According to that law, you have to comply with a number of things. For example, you need a legal basis to process those personal data. Then you should think of consent that is necessary, or proper execution of an agreement, or a legitimate interest, or performance of a public task. The law is very clear about that. I sometimes see that: when I get on an NS station, there is a sign saying "Watch out: here's Wi-Fi tracking." Then the municipality does not necessarily have to have the overall overview, or the responsibility to warn people. The person who eventually processes the data must do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	The Minister mentions the example of getting off the train. There are also examples of departures from the train where there is a very large billboard that shows that it is filming you and following your movements. That's the other side of the story. This also has several sides. I fully agree that local responsibility is leading. Local administrators' knowledge of ICT is not always as good. I also see a role for the Ministry. As far as D66 is concerned, there should be three principles: municipalities should have control over these projects, citizens should be well informed and privacy should be one of the central themes at the start of such a project. Is the Minister prepared to talk to the municipalities on this subject and to see where he can be of added value on the basis of these three principles? In this way, the national government can offer a little more help in countering a proliferation of opportunities that could be at the expense of privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	Some of the conditions mentioned by Mr Verhoeven are simply legal conditions. They have already been secured, for example when it comes to information to people, to citizens. I strongly doubt whether municipalities should have a complete overview of everything that is going on. Then you will be given two more bodies that will be involved in the protection of personal data. I would like to dwell a little longer and more deeply on issues of horizontal and vertical privacy in connection with technological developments, but that is in the context of a commitment I made last week in the budget to Mr Sven Koopmans. You mentioned drones yourself. I think a lot of these kinds of questions are getting more and more topical. In this context, I will speak with municipalities, but also with companies and other governments. I'll come back to you in the spring with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	I heard the Minister say that he doubted whether municipalities should have an overall picture of.I quote everything that is going on. Well, that does go a long way, doesn't it? Companies have their own responsibility. But it can't be that municipalities, aldermen or city council members decide on a project in their own municipality and do not have the overall overview of what they have decided to do? I hope that the Minister agrees with me that municipalities should have that overview, including with regard to security, because for that the mayor is the competent authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	I agree with Mrs Helder that there must be an overview of the things that the municipality itself does, even for democratic control. But the article to which Mr Verhoeven referred concerns everything that happens in cities. You should imagine coming into a parking garage, for example from Q-Park. There's sensors there, too. For example, they look at your license plate when you enter and exit, so you don't have to stand in line for a very long time to pay your ticket. That will automatically be debited from your credit card. Then the question is: does the municipality have to keep track of all this stuff? I almost think that this will be an unsuitable task and that it will provide some sort of false control or false security. I don't think that makes any sense either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	I hear the Minister saying that he wants to talk to municipalities about it, but I have already said that I also think it is very important to clarify the role of the Personal Data Authority in this. I think there is a huge need for information and guidance in this sort of thing. Would the Minister also pay attention to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	A brief answer: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	The article we are talking about is called something with big brother, but the examples that are mentioned are very often about companies, sometimes small companies, that are watching people. So isn't it good to broaden the discussion and not talk about big brother anymore, so the vertical privacy, the state watching, but about citizens and companies looking at each other? May I also remind the Minister that next Thursday we will have a round table on horizontal privacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	I fully agree with Mr Koopmans. It is not just about the relationship between citizen and government, but also about the task of the government to regulate and ensure the relationship between you and your neighbor or between you and a company. I therefore welcome the broadening of the debate. I am also very pleased to hear a number of parties say that this is not just a debate about threats, but that we should also look at the opportunities that this offers. What municipalities do here makes the lives of many inhabitants and visitors of these municipalities better, easier and more enjoyable. It can also be good for the environment. It can also be good for a city to handle its money smarter, more efficient and more efficiently. So there are a lot of opportunities in the applications, but there must always be a balance of interests. It should not unduly infringe people's personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Den Boer of D66 for her question to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations on pressure council members.
