ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome Mr Klein. He was supported by Ms Schouten of the Ministry of the Interior and Ms Hansen, assistant to Mr Klein, in the defence of this initiative bill in trade union K. Welcome aboard. I would also, of course, like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who is acting as an advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first-term answer and then the second-term answer. Mr Klein delivered part of the reply in writing on 12 January. I now give him the floor for the remaining questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the groups for their first-term contributions. There was a distinction between a number of technical aspects: what are the electoral circles and what are their effects? On the other hand, there are a number of political questions: how do we deal with our electoral system? I hope that I have answered some of the technical questions in writing, as you said, and that I have clarified them. If necessary, I can answer further questions about this in the second period. The discussion that has emerged from the spokesmen and which we have had over the past period was about the question: why did we do this? Why do you, as initiator, raise such a specific technical issue as the abolition of electoral circles? Our electoral system is actually the engine block of our democracy. It's the technique, the tool that allows people to figure out which way we're going. People in this country have a right to vote or to stand as a candidate. That's what they're gonna use, and you're gonna need a technique for that. That's the electoral system. As with any technology, think of the engine block............................................................................................................ innovation and..................................... In that respect, it is good to recall the Opinion of the Election Board of April 2014 on the full amendment of the Election Act. The Election Board considers that the Election Act is partly outdated, unclear, inconsistent and contains some unnecessary obstacles to the effective conduct of the electoral process. Furthermore, according to the Election Council, the Election Act does not provide an adequate response to a number of topical issues, such as whether voting is allowed in the voting room. It is therefore recommended to make the Election Act more readable and to make the electoral process more efficient. For example, the use of digital tools enables political parties to submit lists of candidates electronically and the main polling office no longer needs to be involved in the calculation of the election results. In addition, there is simplification through the abolition of electoral circles. That 2014 opinion was not picked up by the Minister of the Interior; it actually just ended up in the drawer. However, I think it is a very important opinion, which needs to be worked on. The trust of our constituents, our society, in our democracy lies primarily in the confidence of the representatives of the people, the politicians. But people's behavior is linked to rules within which they must act. In fact, that is at the heart of the legislation we are working on here. The laws we make every day in the Lower House make it possible to control people's behaviour. That is what we do with traffic legislation, with tax legislation, with spatial planning legislation and with healthcare legislation. Well, then it wouldn't be weird for people to act within the limits of that law, would it? If there are outdated things in it, the aim of the Election Act, namely to work as a reliable engine for our democracy, will be undermined. That is why I have incorporated two elements of the opinion into the Own-initiative Act. The first is the proposal to digitize the candidate procedure. That trajectory's still running. The second is the abolition of the electoral circles, which we are talking about today. The electoral circles are a remnant of the nineteenth century district system and do not fit into the twenty-first century. Circles of choice even lead to unwanted effects. In response to questions raised by the various spokesmen, I will deal with them in a moment. The lists of candidates do not give the electorate the correct picture of the candidate on whom he or she votes. They don't give the right picture, because would a candidate want to be a representative of the people? They also do not clearly indicate whether a vote cast on a candidate has any real value. Our democracy in which people trust requires transparency and clarity. Try explaining to a random voter how our electoral system really works; he will drop out halfway, because it is far too complicated and inimitable. That is why we are trying, through the abolition of the electoral system, to simplify the electoral system. In concrete terms, abolishing the electoral circles means that instead of the present twenty electoral circles, there will now be one electoral circle, the whole country as one electoral circle as it were. The area for a list of candidates for elections is now formed by the administrative boundaries of those elections. So for the European elections and for the Lower House elections, the national borders, including the BES islands, apply. The provincial state elections will then be subject to the limits of the respective provinces. Also for the First Parliament elections, the Netherlands will now function as a single constituency. Separate lists per province, up to twelve of them at the moment, will therefore lapse. The border of the European part of the Netherlands will now be the border of the electoral zone. Moreover, it would be wise to remove their involvement in the elections of the First Chamber in the amendment of the Constitution which is necessary to remove the current uncertainty for the voters in the Caribbean Netherlands. The first reading on that bill and the amendment of the Constitution was. The second reading will hopefully be successfully completed during a subsequent cabinet period. In particular, the VVD and the PVV have asked questions about the problems with the support statements. In the current system there are 30 declarations of support per constituency and 10 for the BES islands, Caribbean Netherlands. There's a constituency Bonaire. The question is: how does it work in the new situation? Should we maintain the current 580 declarations of support or not? My answer is yes. The current legislative proposal is based on the enforcement of those 580 declarations of support. We simply need to ensure that these declarations of support are there. Isn't it going to be too low if you're going to spread it, for example in a single municipality? That question was asked. Will the demand for acceptance be adjusted far too much at some point? Present: that requirement remains. Besides, it's not that serious. Firstly, there is the requirement for 30 declarations of support to be sufficient for European elections at the moment. The bill aims to equalize that number. At that time, the European elections will also require 580 declarations of support. That means an increase and, in fact, an increase in the demand. In doing so, we make it clear that there will also have to be support for European elections. At the moment, 30 declarations of support are needed if you are participating in one constituency, for example. In the new situation, parties participating in one constituency in the national elections will need 580 declarations of support. An example of this is Tamara's Open Party, who participated in the Dutch Parliament elections in 2006 only in the Haarlem constituency. This party will have to receive 580 declarations of support in the new situation. At that time, the party was able to complete it with 30 statements of support, with which it eventually collected 114 votes. The question of the VVD and the PVV is whether it would be a bad thing to spread that. Regional bond is not linked to statements of support, but to the question of how a party builds the list of candidates. How does a party provide the list of candidates for regional representation? At the moment, I have a lot of experience in collecting declarations of support for my party: it is not so much about acceptance, but much more about whether people agree that a party participates in the elections. A statement of support is not a statement on whether or not someone supports a party, but it is much more about whether someone in charge would like to support our open system, allowing new parties to participate in the elections. Moreover, it remains to be seen whether regionality is a criterion. Couldn't you also say that we should have statements of support for a certain percentage of men and women in order to show support? The only criterion should be for voters, regardless of where they come from, to actually give a declaration of support. That is why I think it is very sensible to hold on to a support base based on 580 declarations of support. If parties feel that we should increase that number, or that we should do it in a different way, then I would like to hear it. But that is not part of this legislative proposal, because we are only relying on the current system of 580 declarations of support, with only a huge increase for the election of the European Parliament. The SP, the VVD and the PVV asked if it wouldn't be much easier for parties to participate in the elections if you need few declarations of support per region, so if you come from 580 declarations of support from one area. Wouldn't we be getting long ballots? According to this bill, nothing is going to change that at all. At present, the parties can put 80 candidates on a list. We'll talk about the candidates for the sitting parties, the smaller parties excluded. In our proposal, we say that all parties directly elected in this Parliament should put 80 candidates on their list of candidates. New parties, as well as my party, could only present up to 50 candidates. There is therefore a difference between my second letter of amendment and Mr Bosma's amendment of the PVV, which seeks to broaden it. I really want to limit it to 80 candidates for the sitting parties and 50 for the new parties. Another question is how is election participation going? At the moment, about 81 parties are registered with the Election Council, but that doesn't say anything about whether or not they participate. For example, the Democratic Political Point of Reference is still on the list of registered parties, but I understand that it is quite clear that Mr Brinkman does not want to participate in these elections with the Democratic Political Point of Reference. On average, between 25 and 30 parties have submitted lists in the last few years, and I expect that will not change. In fact, that will be reduced because a list is no longer submitted per constituency. For example, a party that claims to be able to obtain 30 declarations of support only in the Haarlem constituency, but still has €11,250 left to pay a deposit, can register there. In the new situation this is discouraged, because, even if you wanted to participate in one constituency, you would have to hand in 580 declarations of support. I should also like to take a look at the political groups that have been mentioned here. It should not be a problem that there are many parties or many lists of candidates on a ballot. It is a sign of strength and a sign that our democracy works. It's only fear of one's own position to try to stop this. The point is that we have an open electoral system, within which political involvement of citizens can take place and which does not undermine the right to stand as a candidate. Moreover, a diverse parliament reflects the diversity of society. The People's Assembly is like a mirror for this society. Political leaders must explain to their supporters why they do so politically. This stays, this stays on us, and you have to give that space, too. You have to prevent traditional parties from being afraid of competition by turning it into some kind of closed shop. It's part of the election battle or how you're going to give it substance. The system and the technique, the fundamental way in which we organized our electoral system, are not the subject of this debate. On the contrary, competition can be refreshing and purifying and generate innovation. For example, parties may be hornets, a hoax to ensure that this Parliament remains active and up-to-date. I do not understand the remarks made by the PVV in this respect, because the PVV was also a hornet at the start, but has now become part of the political elite.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u3	We have even become such a part of the elite that Mr Klein has borrowed his election slogan from us, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u4	I do not understand what Mr Bosma is referring to. The words "less, less, less" are just Dutch words. I have not seen any posters to which that is explicitly stated. It seems to me very sensible that the good Dutch words should be spoken with the good Dutch intention and that good content should be given to them. However, this is separate from this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u5	That's what I was about to say. Mr Klein continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr Bosma has also asked whether there is no room for happiness seekers. I have no idea what happiness seekers are. The Tickets Act is just a motorbike. How can we make use of the right to stand as a candidate, the right to be elected? According to the political debate and for competition reasons in the fight between the parties, you can of course distribute all kinds of qualifications, such as viewers, grabs and happiness seekers. This is part of the political debate. This bill does not give any value judgment; we are happy to leave that to the political debate. The SP, but also the VVD and the PVV have asked whether there is no opportunism in relation to this bill. I have been asked to what extent I would like to make it easier for the Liberal Party to participate in this election debate. This cannot be the case. There is a two-year journey to bring forward this bill at all. We are only now working on the first deadline and it is not at all the issue that this can play a role in the upcoming elections. We are, of course, busy working normally through those rules, and so we take into account those electoral circles. Mr Bosma asked what administrative burden relief would be provided by this proposal. This is a very essential part. The existence of electoral circles makes the system complicated and not transparent. Moreover, it creates additional burdens. 20 constituents can produce 1,000 lists of 50 lots to be processed, checked and distributed. Without the electoral circles, 50 parties would produce up to 50 lists. This means that 950 lists are less processed, controlled and distributed. Then there is also less work in counting votes and less risk of errors during that process. It is not complicated to have electoral circles, but they do create a very complicated burden during the electoral process. There is a reduction in charges for new parties. The various groups have thrown me in the face of the fact that it would be easier for me. I have indicated that this is not at all the case. If it were already on the agenda, we would not be talking about 2021. The Labour Party has rightly raised the question of whether we actually have a problem. Are we solving a problem by abolishing the electorate? It is always good to keep democratic processes under review and bring them up to date. In addition to the administrative burden, the electoral system is very complex. There is also an unfair allocation of seats to regional candidates by transferring seats. It is absolutely not transparent for the electorate. The electorate is being sent with a bunch of shit and is even at risk of being presented with so-called fake candidates. That is why Council of State, VNG and the Election Council endorsed this bill. They support my arguments. It is about how we can achieve this better. How can we ensure transparency for the electorate? Transparency is particularly concerned with the lists. If you have a list as a voter in a constituency, it can be quite different than in another constituency. Because of this possibility to submit different lists, you will see list pushers especially at the bottom of the lists. They are candidates who, above all, have to vote, but who do not intend or even stand a chance of having a seat. However, this is not the purpose of the electoral system. It is not intended to present as many candidates as possible from whom one can reasonably assume that they are never needed. The intention of the electoral system was to promote regional bonding at a time when it was possible to put only 10 candidates on a list. Right now, they're 50 or 80 candidates. In the 1998 elections, the CDA presented as many as 239 candidates, while we only have 150 seats. What are you doing with all these people? So that's really not about anything. In the previous elections, the Labour Party presented 169 candidates. In the coming elections, the Labour Party will present 172 candidates to the electorate. We have 150 seats here; we do not change that with this bill either. In the Labour Party, it happens to be the MP Mrs Vermeij on the list, while she has indicated that she is no longer available to the Chamber. However, it is on the list for the constituency of The Hague. Mrs Vermeij is a valued and very sensible Member of Parliament. The voters could want her back in the Chamber. Then the question is whether that is realistic and whether the voter is actually served by being elected. In short, our electoral system really needs to be respected, and that means putting real candidates on the electoral lists in my eyes. Those are candidates who would actually be able to carry out the work of the people's representative not only in the coming period but also in the future. That is why it is wise to abolish these constituencies. It will then also be possible to place regional candidates on these lists. Put on each list of candidates that is more of a call to the parties and not a wish for the system of the Election Act itself your regional candidates. Let that regional spread be reflected in such a list if you have an interest or value as a party to it. In addition, it will be much easier to get people to vote in the different areas on their own candidates or on the candidates from the area where they come from. Is it logical, for example, that a Limburger, who might now be on the Maastricht electoral list, should also be on a list in all provinces, i.e. all over the country? The Limburger who lives in Amsterdam can then quietly vote for a Limburger. That seems much more sensible to me, because then you will rule out the fact that favourites are only distributed regionally, while the Dutch reality is that the mobility of Dutch people has been increased. Different people live in different places, but can always support their own regional candidates. The abolition limits the number of candidates you can present. However, the proposal also calls for an increase in the number of candidates. We have just discussed this in the second letter of amendment. The Labour Party has also asked a question about the link between the electorate and the elected one: should it not be different? What is wrong with the current system in which political parties are given the opportunity to fill it out by region? What is wrong with that and how should we do that? In itself there is nothing wrong with that; I have just indicated it. But it is up to the party, the one submitting the list of candidates, to determine to what extent it intends to give substance to it. At the moment, of course, that can be achieved very well. We'll talk about about about six candidates per province if you add it to the number of candidates you could submit. What could be a change is that you also add the province where the candidate comes from on the electoral bill next to the municipality. I did not include that in a letter of amendment, because that is a part that you should change through a General Measure of Management. It is an adaptation of Article h2 of the Decision and of the Decision on a consultative referendum. It could be a question for the Minister whether he is prepared to implement such an AMvB, so that on a electoral list not only the residence but also the province. I was born in Hengelo (O), but there is also a Hengelo in Gelderland. This means that you can make it clearer that it is not Hengelo but Hengelo Overijssel or Hengelo Gelderland. I think that's a good idea to do, but we're not doing that in this law. D66, SGP and CDA have asked questions about the unfair results of the consequences of the electorate. What's so unfair about the system? Firstly, it is, of course, a very unfair system because it allows you to move over seats. It concerns the phenomenon that there is always a seat as a result of the submission of different or almost different candidates. Regional candidates depend on the allocation of seats to the national candidates. Because it is so illogical, it is impossible to predict whether or not a candidate you vote for will be in, for example, the House of Representatives. It is possible that a regional candidate with more votes than another regional candidate will miss a seat, because in the constituency in which he had raised more votes than the other candidate, the seat is already forgiven. That's unfair. For example, a SP candidate from Limburg missed his seat during the 2006 elections. It is therefore not transparent and not clear to the electorate. In fact, the electorate should have taken a vote in another constituency in order to ensure that the candidate of his preference would be elected. It could be done with a voice-passing action. The problem, however, is that, of course, the electorate never knows in advance in which constituency he could have voted best in order to get the candidate of his preference to come forward without being affected by the whole system. In fact, therefore, there is an act against the will of the electorate. This is put forward by both the Council of State and the UNG and the Election Council, I say in the direction of the Labour Party. I come to the phenomenon of list pushers and other well-known Dutch people being parachuted at the bottom of a list, with the effect: wow, vote for me, because that is so interesting. It is a kind of statement of acceptance of candidates, less about whether the candidate really wants to become a Member of Parliament. In fact, I remember an interview with Maarten 't Hart, who was a candidate for the Party for Animals. In it he said he did it out of sympathy for the Party for the Animals, not to become MPs. Still, he's on the list of candidates. Voters don't know what intention candidates are on the list of candidates. In my view, it should be so that a list of candidates makes it clear that all candidates are actually candidates. Then why would it be necessary to present more than 100 additional candidates? I think it is important to ensure that transparency comes back to the electoral system by abolishing the electoral system. Transparency is also one of the five safeguards set out by the 2007 election process by the Advisory Committee. The citizen keeps a closer eye on his voice. It has to do with the problem of passing over which I have just spoken in response to the questions of the Labour Party. As far as the citizen is concerned, he does not have to cast a fake vote in his constituency, and he does not have to vote for a fake candidate. That really makes his voice a real voice. The citizen, the voter, will have to be presented with a fair picture. Then he gets clarity and gets a clear list of up to 80 candidates, or 50 candidates in the case of a new party. I come to the conclusion of my first term. The abolition of electoral circles would be a very sensible choice. However, there is still a question from the CDA, which is not so directly addressed in this context. In the first term, the CDA asked whether the applicant considered it justified that a candidate on whom 3,511 votes were cast should withdraw a seat from a political group. I cannot quite place that question in the light of this law, my initiative law. We also held a wide-ranging exchange of views on this subject when we discussed the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. So I'm gonna leave this question for what it is. With this I hope to have answered the questions of the various spokesmen sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you very much for the first-term response. Before we complete the first deadline, I will give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who will act as an advisor in the examination of the initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. With all due respect and appreciation for Mr Klein's zeal, it is always good to take initiatives. I refer to the considerations which my distant predecessor, Mr Donner, has already put forward, namely that the electoral circles are not superfluous. Apparently they're being used. The legislator's intention in abolishing the district system in 1918 was to allow a form of regional connection in a system of proportional representation by bringing together parties in different regions with slightly different lists. I note that before the Dutch Parliamentary elections in 2015, the Labour Party and the SP at least took place. Within a province there are also different electoral circles. In the state elections it was also done by the VVD, GroenLinks, the CDA, the SP and the Labour Party. Apparently, there's a broad need for it. The lead lies with political parties. So I see no reason to abolish the electoral circles. I should like to comment on Mr Bosma's amendment. I think that is an understandable and sympathetic amendment. I also said this when he tabled the amendment to the experimental law on a new ballot. That experiment did not pass because Mr Bosma's group did not support it either. Otherwise it would have been, so that's too bad. Mr Klein has now included in his own proposal the intention of Mr Bosma's amendment by letter of amendment. Let me remind you of Mr Bosma's reasoning. It is a bit strange that "large" parties, namely parties with more than fifteen seats in the present House of Representatives, should be allowed to list 80 candidates and "small" parties only 50, while we know that because of volatility the concepts "large" and "small" are no longer what they may have been. Then you'd have to pull that right away. It's an understandable intention. Mr Bosma's amendment makes it possible for parties who now have zero seats in the Lower House to come forward with 80 candidates, while the letter of amendment makes that possible if you have at least one seat in the Chamber. It's a fine difference. It doesn't matter because I'm betraying the whole initiative proposal, with all due respect. However, I would like to say once again that I hope that Mr Bosma will be able to link his amendment to a legislative proposal which he will support, so that this understandable wish can be realised. I thought I could leave it at this point. There are many other issues involved, but I should like to confine myself to the proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you, short but powerful and clear. We shall begin with the second term, in which I shall give the floor to Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u10	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Klein for his detailed reply, following on from the written answers he gave us earlier. The VVD Group has taken it well. I heard his oral additions to that tonight. I would like to repeat my compliments from my first term to Mr Klein. He wants to see what can be improved about our electoral process and what can be modernised. I did that on another part myself. It is a particular responsibility for the members of the Chamber to keep an eye on the way in which we end up here and also in representative bodies elsewhere in the country. The same applies to the way in which people can cast their votes and how the voting process works. This must be optimal and accessible. Having said that, my group is still critical of the fact that it is precisely on the subject of electoral circles that such modernisation is needed. In short, our question concerns the necessity and usefulness of the proposal. I do not think that Mr Klein is going to go along with the idea that the VVD Group is going to vote in favour of this proposal. I will, of course, discuss it again with my group. I think, however, that there is a good chance that we will maintain our position that electoral circles are indeed being used after the occupation of the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and that this will seem to meet a need. Its use is not necessary. You don't have to do it. The parties can also fill in the regional distribution, for which they are now used in particular, in a different way. My own party is an example of that. However, I do not want to deprive other parties of the opportunity to use those electoral circles. I shall once again weigh up the answer with the members of my group. I assume we will be able to make a final assessment of this in this Chamber next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you for your second-term contribution, Mr Taverne. Only Mr Amhaouch of the CDA Group still needs a second-term contribution. I shall give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mr. Chairman. The CDA also thanked Mr Klein and the staff for answering the questions. We also thank him for the full passion and surrender with which he almost tirelessly defended this initiative legislative proposal. We have already said in the first instance that the CDA is going to use the forthcoming elections to the electoral circles in the past, and several parties have already done so in order to strengthen the regional link. For us, we can even take a step further in terms of strengthening the regional character. As far as the modernisation of the electoral system is concerned, I do not think that the whole of the Netherlands is watching and awakening today. We do run into people on the streets who really don't understand that we have 17 parties in the Chamber today and that 81 parties have signed up for the upcoming elections. We certainly shouldn't make that any easier. We really need to see how we can get the Netherlands back to control. Our congress even updated our electoral programme last Saturday to bring the electoral threshold from two to three seats. If there are any proposals from Mr Klein in the future, perhaps we could work together to modernise the electoral system, which would be our priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u13	I see that Mr Klein can respond directly in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. In view of the responses, we do not need a comprehensive suspension for technical consultations on the complex questions. In fact, two points have been raised by both the Minister and Mr Taverne: they are being used, so there is a need for them. That is a rather curious reasoning. There are a lot of avoidance schemes in this country, so people are using schemes when we actually think they should have been different. That is, of course, the reversal of the situation with regard to these electoral circles: because they are being used, they must not be abolished. No. You need to see how you can make sure that our democratic system is strengthened, how the transparency of our electoral system is strengthened, so that the parties such as those sitting here in the Chamber will soon be able to enter the elections with 80 candidates. They must be able to show that there is sufficient regional distribution, that there are sufficient candidates and that there is quality. You don't get that out of the fact that you may or may not list people in electoral circles as list pushers or as regional voters. The reasoning regarding the need therefore does not justify the existence of electoral circles. I come to Mr Amhaouch's comment on the number of parties. We need to make a clear distinction between how our electoral system really works and other things. We have eleven political groups elected in this Chamber. The fact that other groups have been added as a result of splits is another subject and separate from the electoral system. The electoral system has the possibility of reaching eleven political groups. That open system will continue to exist. The fact that 81 parties have been registered does not mean anything; it is ultimately about the participation of parties. It is perfectly logical that all parties in this country should have the opportunity and every citizen should have the opportunity to fill in the right to stand as a candidate by issuing their own list of candidates. A completely different discussion is about whether to set a threshold for voting. I can agree with Mr Amhaouch on this and I would also like to consult him on a further period. So should you ensure that a group has a certain size before it can sit in the Chamber? That is the subject of discussion. For example, there is a lot of work to be done on a single member of parliament. It may not be as good for a Member of Parliament to carry out the task of controlling the government as it is for a Member of Parliament who is in a group with more people. I therefore think it is very reasonable to discuss such a question with each other. However, this is separate from the question of access to our electoral system. Any citizen of the Netherlands, together with other citizens, must be able to provide a party and participate in the elections. In doing so, it is logical that there can be a restriction by abolishing electoral circles. After all, a party will always have to participate in the elections nationwide. Then it will no longer be possible for a party to participate only in one constituency. I certainly wouldn't want to disrupt that democratic process. In fact, I would like to strengthen it by modernising the Election Act which abolishes the electoral circles.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u15	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. In the Court's second term, his contribution has not really been specifically addressed. I see from him that he wants to refrain from making a contribution in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-8.u16	I would like to thank Mr Klein very much for his contribution both in the first term and in the second. We are going to vote on the proposed amendment and the legislative proposal next Tuesday. I shall now suspend the sitting briefly. We will proceed immediately with the treatment of another bill. The Minister who has to take the floor is already here. That's very convenient.
