ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u1	I welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science and I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. On Tuesday, 5,500 schools started their classes an hour later. A petition from the PO front calling for investment in salaries and reducing the excessive workload has already been signed almost 370,000 times. The need is high, we can all see that, but the debate is sensitive now that there is no new cabinet and the current leaders are mainly causing uncertainty. Where the PvdA Minister for Education says there is no extra money for salary increases, the PvdA Minister for Social Affairs promises that the government will increase salaries. The fact that the present cabinet does not conduct the debate on the budget for Princess Day among themselves, but via the media, creates a great deal of uncertainty as to what the cabinet position actually is. I would like to challenge the cabinet and, in particular, Minister Asscher, to take action in order to make an assessment of the desired wage developments in the next budget and to take a first step, for example by releasing 500 million for wage increases and job cuts. I'd like a response. I'm considering a motion on this point. I did not ask for this debate just to talk about salaries, but to look at how we can deal with the shortage of teachers now. Because that lack of teachers is due to the fact that the government has been pursuing a erratic policy for decades. Until 1958, there was a law prohibiting married women from standing in front of the classroom. When this law was abolished, it was already too late. Working women had left for business. I also remember the 1.1 billion from Education Minister Plasterk in 2008. That money would go to higher salaries and career opportunities, but the zero line that that same cabinet then introduced destroyed this investment. For example, there are numerous examples of cabinet measures that create uncertainty. The administrative burden, rules and control from the Ministry, as well as from the Lower House, also make the appeal less attractive. The influx into the pabo decreased by a third in 2015 compared to the previous year. We see that there is little recovery and that students who want to go to the pabo are deterred by the new influx requirements. Just to be clear: despite the fact that GroenLinks is not happy with the calculation and language test in its current form, we are mainly concerned with the knowledge tests of nature and technology, history and geography. I ask the Minister whether she also thinks that this measure has not worked out well. Do we have better teachers for the class now? I don't think so. You become a good teacher through experience and a good education. That is why we would like to see pabo students who want to rethink their mathematics and language or one of the knowledge tests not have to pay extra for that. Does the Minister see anything in a system of vouchers so that pabo students who want to can get a free review? The Minister also states in her letter that the lack of career opportunities is a reason not to opt for education. Is she talking to schools about this? Staff policy is far from being set up in such a way that teachers can do what they are good at. One teacher likes to stand in front of the class full-time, while others would like to spend part of their time developing teaching material or coaching less experienced colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u3	I see that Mr Rog wants to interrupt, but are you almost ready for your conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'm almost finishing up, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u5	Then I suggest you finish your story first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u6	We ask the Minister to what extent schools adjust their schedules when teachers with a teacher's scholarship want to receive additional training. I'd like to close with a wish list for the new Minister of Education. Despite the need to take measures now, I would also think it wise to come up with a plan, let us say, for the next 25 years. We can predict a little bit how many children are born. From that we can derive about how many teachers are needed. It seems wise for GroenLinks not only to develop cabinet policy for the next four years, but also to ensure a stable labour market in the longer term. This gives certainty to teachers and is therefore also good for our education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mrs Westerveld has requested this debate on the shortage of teachers. I'm just trying to distill what she's actually proposing. With me, she insists on relaxing the influx requirements on the pabo. To be honest, I find that extremely worrying. Does Mrs Westerveld understand what this means for the quality and status of teaching? And does she also realise that in the long term it will have a negative impact on the shortage of teachers? In Finland, one of the features of the system is, after all, a high level of education. Many people can't do it and only the very best go to teacher training. What's her reaction to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u8	The House of Representatives decided a few years ago to increase the influx requirements. That has a terrifying effect. Let me be clear: we are not proposing to adjust the final level of pabo students. We would like students who come from the HAVO not to have to take a test first, or to have to take a test to show what deficiencies they still have, so that, in the following years, for example, a nickname course can be offered. So we really want to abolish the influx tests, but we do not want to interfere with what teachers should be able and know at the end of the training.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u9	But does Mrs Westerveld also know what the positive consequences of these increased inflow requirements have been? Does she have any knowledge of the fact that in the first year the number of students falling from over 18% to 11%? Does she want to go back to dropping out of students who can't actually handle the level?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u10	The drop-out in the first year has indeed decreased, but the number of students entering the programme has fallen even more dramatically, by about 30% in that one year. We think that is a big problem. Our proposal is to start by looking at the points where a student still lacks essential knowledge and to ensure that the student acquires that knowledge in the years that he goes to the pabo. So we really want to improve education and not take a test at the beginning and thus deter new students from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u11	Can you handle the microphone, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u12	All these new MPs know exactly where the button is, but don't you? Go ahead!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u13	Haha! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. In 2008, there was a expectation that within ten years a teacher shortage of several tens of thousands of teachers would arise. Fortunately, it has not come to this, but where some Paboa students are still shy about work, the deficits in different growth centres are already painfully palpable. The outgoing cabinet rightly opposes the use of unauthorized pabo students as full teachers, but initiatives such as in Rotterdam-Zuid, where pabo students are offered a job guarantee, welcomes the CDA wholeheartedly. We support the policies of in-, through- and out-flow of teacher training, the promotion of side influx and the preservation of teachers, and the activation of silent reserves. How do the ambitions of the rulers for more side-insurgents relate to the competence requirements of teachers? For the CDA, it is clear: we want to avoid the blackmailing of the requirements of competence. Encouraging side-intromers is good, but we do not want to lower quality standards. The same goes for the influx at the pabo. What about the initiative of the Christian University of Ede, the school of teaching, in which students, and especially boys and students with a migrant background, are prepared for teachership? Can we expect such initiatives to be extended? What are the rulers going to do for that? Do they agree with me that the attractiveness of the primary school teacher's profession would increase if students could choose between teacher training aimed at the young child and teacher training aimed at the older child? We know that male teachers are particularly interested in teaching older children. They may be tempted to opt for primary education. EUR 100 million is spent on education to further enhance the WW benefit for unemployed teachers. Is there any idea whether the social partners are prepared to agree that educational money now being used for super-legal collective agreements will be invested in extra hands in the classroom? In addition to more confidence in the profession, more hands in the classroom and less interference from the government, a good remuneration policy and career prospects can contribute to preventing the shortage of teachers. In 2009, the Balkenende IV cabinet with the Covenant LeerKracht gave an impetus of 1 billion euros to avert the teacher shortage and to further promote the quality of teachership. One of these measures was the function mix. Government, trade unions and the PO Council agreed that by 2015 48% of primary school teachers would be scaled one scale higher. It is now 2017, and not 48%, but only 26% of primary school teachers have been placed in that higher LB scale, while Rinda the Best of the PO Council in Nieuwsuur said: "Money that comes for salaries goes to salaries. This has been the case in recent years." I'd like a response from the rulers. How many times have they talked to the social partners about non-compliance with this agreement? How do they appreciate the fact that trade unions and PO Council have taken action behind PO and are now calling for 100% of primary school teachers in LB, while they themselves have failed to comply with the agreement to scale 48% of teachers in LB?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. Larger classes, higher workload, more drop-out, less guidance, the merging of classes and simply worse education, they are just for the fist away a few consequences of the threat and in some places already existing teacher shortage in primary education, the basic education that is already on clapping and this week massively laid down the work for an hour and with thousands came to Malieveld with absolutely justified demands: more pay and less work pressure. All the support for this from the SP and fantastic that they make themselves heard. This demonstrates the difficulty of this debate: a structural, thorough approach to the shortage of teachers simply cannot be achieved without additional money. I therefore strongly recommend to the Chamber my amendment which I will table next week during the discussion of the Spring Note, which everyone has received. Half a billion more to abolish that detestable lowest scale for masters and damsels. They deserve that, and they also deserve a Lower House that doesn't keep staring at the Tower, but looks at the school square. What they don't deserve is the twisting and whining of this cabinet, which is or isn't for more money, whether or not it thinks teachers shouldn't complain or not, and whether or not the difference between teachers in primary school and high school is justified or not. On all these discrepancies, please have a reaction from both directors, independently of each other, because their reactions sometimes differ. Then we can read in the newspapers what the vice prime minister thinks. More specifically, I would like to receive the job evaluation on which this difference is based. Because I haven't been able to find it. That should be just public information. It is not for nothing that the shortage of teachers in primary education is so much greater than in secondary schools. That has everything to do with this. However, this cabinet is outgoing, and as long as this cabinet does not pay out any more money, we will see what we can do now within the margins. There are some suggestions to be made. For example, there is a suitable examination for side-intromers. Very well, but that research can cost many thousands of euros, which either have to be paid by the institution or by the prospective teacher, if it turns out that someone is not suitable. That scares you, doesn't it? In principle, that test is only taken after someone has been appointed. I can imagine it'd be a hindrance to hiring a teacher if you don't know if he or she'll finally pass that test. The financial space for accompanying side-intromers is also rather limited. I read that the total pot of helping side-intromers in primary education is a total of eight tons. That's not that much, if you're going to think it costs about $20,000. And then there's money left, which I find completely amazing. What the hell is wrong with this arrangement that such a small amount is still not drawn up? We can't find people who want to go to the p.o. One more thing about teaching assistants: ladies and gentlemen who already have experience in the classroom, know what to expect and we know it all secretly too, but who have to pay for their pabo themselves and would prefer to take lessons in the evenings, but that is not always possible. They're having too much trouble with that little retraining spot. There's got to be a profit there, right? I'm not gonna say here that every teaching assistant is gonna make it eventually to stand in front of the classroom. We certainly weren't going to lower the demands for teachers. But I hear from a lot of teachers and directors that they see a lot of potential in the qualities of the teaching assistants. Let's start there. If I understand correctly, an HBO will receive compensation during his retraining for any income he has missed. Then I think it's a good start to say: if an MBO is going to be educated to finally get the pabo, why don't we? Finally, I would like to say something about the workload and the collective agreement. Something's gonna go wrong, too. That leads to failure, especially with starters. This only leads to a shortage of teachers. What is the cabinet going to do to improve guidance, especially for flexers and teachers working at multiple locations? You know how that goes: one establishment shifts responsibility to another and ultimately nothing happens. If there is guidance, it is sometimes done by someone who is at the same time a supervisor and ultimately conducts the work interviews. I do not think that is in line with the collective agreement. I would like something to be done about that. Let's show our teeth as a room for everything. The cabinet is outgoing, and we are not, so I'm counting on your support for my proposal to raise teachers' salaries next week in the Spring Paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u15	Am I to understand that next week Mr Kwint is going to propose that, from a one-off pot, teachers' salaries should be increased structurally?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u16	No, you don't understand. I am now making money available once for increasing teacher salaries in the run-up to the new collective agreement negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u17	How is that paid out of the SP in the years after?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u18	I assume that together we will eventually adopt a budget that will provide more resources for teachers. But I want to take a first step now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u19	I find that interesting. We agreed with each other that structural funds should also be set in motion for structural funding. What I find particularly special is that the SP cannot structurally justify the abolition of that LA scale anywhere in its electoral programme. It seems a little like you're doing something fun once, and then leaving others with the problems. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u20	It would be a little crazy if I said yes right now. Of course that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u21	It would be fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u22	I will leave that judgment to you when I give my own answer. No, of course that's not what's going on. I believe that we have all seen on Tuesday that a great deal is needed in primary education. I've heard lots of parties say nice things about that at the Malieveld. The fact that you are now taking a first step to tackle that problem makes perfect sense to me. The only alternative is that we stay here, that we want to make it structural and put it on the formation table and that we say to teachers: you will hear from us, we wish you a pleasant summer holiday. I'll pass for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u23	You're trying to imagine something beautiful here. But if it is a one-off payment, why not do it with a one-off payment corresponding to this amount? Why place others at the expense of a structural measure which you only pay for one year? Then be honest: you want to give these teachers a one-time bonus of half a billion; or you want to place them once in a higher scale and then put them back again. You're not gonna settle for the future. You act like you're gonna take care of it, but in reality you're not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u24	We all know that collective bargaining is coming, so I think it would be wise to make half a billion extra available for teacher salaries. That seems to me to be a good point for the teachers, so that at least they enter into these negotiations with an extra half a billion. I am confident that the social partners will at least take care of the rest in the follow-up. Teachers have a right to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u25	I do not think Mr Kwint fully understands that the social partners are only negotiating with money from the government. So they can talk until they weigh one on us, but there is no euro added. That money's gonna have to come from here. Frankly, I am disturbed by the constant denial by Mr Kwint of the fact that what he is doing is extremely cheap. He wants us all to make a one-off sum of half a billion for a salary increase, and expects the social partners to resolve it afterwards. No, if we're gonna fix that, it's gonna have to happen here. Here, in this Chamber, that half billion will have to be spent structurally. As Mr Kwint may know, staff expenditure is structural. It's not like you're gonna get a raise this year, and it's gonna go away next year. If that were to happen, the SP would blow on horns again and wave flags. So I ask Mr Kwint one more time: is that half a billion, which he is asking for in his amendment, an incentive for a structural salary? And if so, where does he get the money from?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u26	The interruptions must be really short. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u27	Yeah, but I have to explain something to him first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u28	No. This applies to everyone: the interruptions must be short. I'm really gonna watch that very closely today. So it gets really annoying, I'm afraid. The answers must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u29	Okay. In that case it would be a good thing that the interruption was so long, because the answer to Mr Van Meenen's questions was already in his questions: it is indeed a start, and yes, it will eventually have to be structured, but I do not think that it relieves us of the responsibility to take occasional steps where we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u30	It is not to be hoped that Mr Kwint will ever become an employer, because then I wish his staff a great deal of strength. If he happens to have a good year, his staff will get a structural salary increase, but if the next year is not good, it will be gone. That's not how it works. In order to save time, I do not need to hear the same answer again, but I have never heard any greater nonsense on this subject in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u31	Let me not make too much of Mr Van Meenen's hearing capacity. It's hard to judge, but I'd advise him to pay more attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u32	A brief question: if Mr Kwint thinks this is the right idea for the teachers, why is this not in the SP election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u33	There are a lot of good ideas to do something about the shortage of teachers. This is one of them. You have just heard, for example, about the class assistants. Anyone who says that at the push of a button, you solve the teacher problem, you lie. You have a lot of things to do, but it seems undeniable to me that the appreciation of a profession is also related to the salary that goes with it. So yes, this is one of the solutions you need to think about when dealing with the shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u34	But you specifically put forward this proposal. Then it is interesting to hear why the SP has not made the choice to go to the electorate with this proposal as well as to indicate in the election programme how the SP makes structural money available for this. Or is it perhaps that the CPB didn't want to award this? Can Mr Kwint indicate whether the SP had always wanted to do this or whether this was too expensive for the SP to arrange and that the SP now wants to make a nice decoration by selling it as a gift only once?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u35	If Mrs Becker finds this 'beautiful decoration' and 'a once-in-a-lifetime present', I see no reason why she should vote against my amendment. After all, I do not think anyone can be against a beautiful gift, especially for the teachers who earn it so much. So I'm counting on her support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u36	Mr. Chairman. It is not so long ago that young teachers in primary education and paboafstudies had difficulty in getting to work, because there are fewer and fewer pupils. Now, in the short term, many teachers are retiring and there are too few paboafstuden to counter the threat of shortages. It is a huge challenge to maintain the quality of education. The workload already problematic in primary education will only increase. There are several reasons for the shortage of teachers. The influx on the pabo has dropped dramatically. The main reason is to raise the demands. The influx is one-sided: few men, hardly students with a migration background and few graduates with a profile in nature or technique. The minister said proudly recently that the percentage of male influx on the pabo is rising, but if you look at the absolute figures, you see that this is because women are apparently deterred by the math test, not because more men are coming to the pabo. I am not in favour of lowering the inflow requirements, but I am asking the Secretary of State and the Minister what can be done to bring MBO and HAVO closer to the pabo. Surely it can't be that our teachers and masters can't count? The Christian Union would like structural measures to be taken to ensure that there are more classroom guys, as my own initiative paper was called. Both male and female teachers perform better in teams with diversity. Strong teams need men and women. Lack of career prospects are the main reason for students to opt for another profession. In addition, the reward also plays a role. The Netherlands lags behind in developing career opportunities for teachers. This is part of the Teachers' Agenda. I read in the letters what is being done, but I would like to know what has actually been achieved on this point and what prospects the Secretary of State sees for better career prospects. In addition to attracting new talent, the preservation of teachers is of great importance for the profession. Guide and relieve novice teachers and side-intromers. Provide more and better opportunities to professionalize. And lower the workload. The workload is one of the aspects that make life difficult for teachers. This is an appeal from me to the administrators and school leaders, as much as or perhaps more so than to the Secretary of State. After the event at the Malieveld last Tuesday, I got up a bit with an experienced teacher from Zeist. She's retired and now she's working as a substitute. She found the pleasure in the trade again. Why? Because she doesn't have to think about all the obligations and administration. She's freed from the risk-avoiding culture at her school. Teachers suffer from administrative obligations imposed, inter alia, by boards or partnerships. The partnerships exist on the basis of cooperation and should not be additional supervisory bodies imposing unnecessary administrative burdens. How does the Secretary of State ensure that partnerships do not require unnecessary administration of teachers? What possibilities does he have to adjust these links if necessary? For my part, I am prepared to debate less about appropriate education if it reduces the accountability burden on schools. A school in Harderwijk called on me to show courage and to take action: do not come to such a debate, because then we do not have to fill in accountability documents! I'm closing up. Good education is worth a lot to the Christian Union. This was demonstrated by the autumn agreement, which made hundreds of millions more available for education, partly thanks to the Christian Union, on top of the extra money that has already been invested in education in recent years. But it is clear that not all the problems like snow have disappeared before the sun. For this, the problems of workload and shortage of teachers are too tough. It is clear that there is a problem in education. I think we should not make education happy today with a dead sparrow of one-off money. We have to take care of this right now. It is one of the major challenges of the next cabinet to take steps on this issue, together with employers, in the PO Council and with school leaders and teachers. And yes, then extra money is needed for education, which should be targeted to reduce work pressure and increase quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mr. Chairman. The profession of teacher is a subject which many speak with warm words. That's right. It is a great honor and a fantastic calling to contribute to the knowledge and skill of the next generation, which will contribute to our country. So the teacher's profession deserves respect. I think everyone agrees on that. Yet many in our country are not warm to become a teacher. This problem is urgent. Due to the decline in the outflow to the pabo and an increase in pension outflow from education, there will be an increasing teacher shortage from 2017. In 2025, there may be a shortage of 10,000 full-time employees in primary education. This puts pressure on the personal attention and support of students and may not be able to benefit the next generation from education such as the present generation. Action is therefore needed to reduce the shortage of teachers. Firstly, this calls for a better financial appreciation of teachers in primary education. For years these passionate and involved people have been on the zero line and a teacher in secondary education still deserves more than a teacher in primary education. A third of the havists, vwo'ers and mbo-4 students rightly say that a teacher's starting salary should be higher and there should be more opportunities for growth in wages to consider a career as a teacher. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether she agrees with her party colleague and fellow Minister Asscher that measures should be taken in the forthcoming budget to increase teachers' salaries. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Secondly, it is necessary to offer teachers more career prospects. For 60% of vwo'ers, the lack of intellectual challenge and career prospects are the reason not to go into education. Many teachers want to develop into educational developer or researcher, but in practice there is not enough room for this. The Minister has a reconnaissance conducted to address this problem. Only in the autumn will we hear about possible solutions. In the meantime, we call on the Minister to encourage schools in partnerships to create space for specialist positions in which teachers can grow. Because if schools work together, there might be room for that research function. That may be the only reason for an academic to go into education. Thirdly, we need to reduce the workload. Stress, burnouts and diseases lead to outage. This contributes to the unattractiveness of the profession and to the shortage of teachers. That is why I repeat the call already made by DENK in previous debates today. Clear unnecessary rules. Set up class assistants and work on the inspection pressure. Finally, we must ensure that the influx of certain groups is increased, without compromising quality. In this context, I think we should first look at men, because education seems to be becoming more and more a women's profession. Women are twice as often interested in teacher training for primary education as men. A very large part of the Dutch population is therefore not warm to the beautiful profession of teacher. In addition, the teachers' corps is not a good reflection of society. Does the Minister have any idea why men choose this wonderful profession less often? If not, is she prepared to have this investigated? My second question on this point concerns the points of action. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union has produced a wonderful initiative paper on men for the classroom. In response, the government indicated that no additional measures would be taken. Why not? Why not a teacher ambassador? Think of Master Bart, immensely popular on Facebook. Why not do more work on sharing and encouraging working initiatives? Why no targets? I'd like to get a response on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the shortage of teachers in primary education and how to solve it. According to the Animal Party, you can't separate that from salaries. The deficit could reach 10,000 full-time jobs by 2025. It is about teachers, who work, watch, form, learn, protect, regulate, care and guide. It's about the most important part of our future, our children. That's incredibly important. I'll see if there's any kids in the public gallery. There's some older kids, I see. The deficits are not new. The OCW website contains a variety of measures that have been taken or are being taken. In the letter of 26 June, the Minister and the Secretary of State wrote down six measures, six solutions. What stands out in that letter of inquiry is that no attention is paid to why. Why is there so little inflow and therefore a shortage in the profession, when intrinsic remuneration is so high? What has happened in the past few decades? That analysis is completely lacking. We also understand that if the house is on fire, you're gonna put it out first. And let the rulers continue hard with their six lines, but we owe it to ourselves to understand the causes. I'd like to hear a reflection from the Minister. To speak in terms of education, why do we stay seated? The PO movement in action now tells us what it is about: fair salaries and fewer tasks. We also believe that this is the key to successfully tackling the shortage of teachers. Of course, some of the recommendations for what can happen next to the letter of inquiry have already been made in the past, such as the abolition of the LA scale. This is the subject of Mr Beertema's motion, which we will continue to support. That brings us to what we would like to propose. This is based on conversations with various teachers, on a four-year experience as a side-intromer and, of course, on the letter of inquiry, in which the rulers offer six lines of solution. We would first like to connect with a simple measure to line... Well, that's the problem with line thinking. Lighting the workload is not a separate learning line. In many schools, now I come to the proposal, the teachers themselves have to do the residence, because... Yes, why not? They're already here and they have to eat anyway. Let us abolish this obligation and give schools the means to solve it differently. Let's give teachers a quiet lunch. Think of it as some kind of driving time decision. Are the rulers prepared to do so? Then I come to two initiatives that would fit in with different organisation and innovative ideas, and that also fit within the Operation Rules Spare. Are the Minister and the Secretary of State prepared to make money available so that two groups from the p.o., i.e. from the field itself, can be financed and released? The first group will examine what completely unnecessary reporting rules can enter the trash. We get many examples of reports to be made and implemented in systems, but nothing else happens. But if you don't make them, they guarantee a lot of trouble and stress, because the warden thinks it's the right thing to do. Let's call that group the "Commission Trimming." The Minister and the Secretary of State may then say: that cannot be done, because that depends on what the inspection requires. We've been thinking about that, too. There will be a second group. It will examine the rules which the inspection considers necessary, but which in practice do not contribute to quality. Let us call it "the inspection committee." These two groups from the education themselves give us something that seems to have been replaced a long time ago by reports, administration, management and intermediate layers, namely trust. The confidence that things will improve and the workload will decrease if schools are allowed to take care of it themselves. This means that the results of both committees must be binding. Give me that confidence. That and a much better reward is what is being asked. Why didn't you give it to me? It could then be that a profession driven by intrinsic motivation, well-paid and well-organized, attracts tens of thousands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mr. Chairman. Parents want a school for their child with enough good teachers. But with the declining influx into the pabo and the rapidly expanding group of older teachers, there will be a shortage in the future. In some regions and in the Randstad this is already palpable. When you are confronted as a parent with changing teachers and emergency procedures such as larger classes and boarding trainees, you are concerned about the quality of education. The pressing question is: how do we provide more good teachers for primary education? The cabinet has been working on this for much longer than it is today. It has sent us another letter containing additional measures. It wants to make agreements with deficit regions, make it easier to influx them and encourage people with authority to get back in the classroom. We welcome this broad approach. However, we would like to know whether this package of measures is sufficient. Did the government calculate whether this would make the teacher deficit not 4,000 fte by 2020, but actually zero? What are commitments made in regions in concrete terms? Can the cabinet give an example of measures? How does the government see in practice the measure to encourage the competent people to return to education? What exactly is this available EUR 1.25 million spent on? How do we prevent students from becoming the victims of a difficult reintegration process? Some parties are calling today: solve the shortage of teachers and raise wages or lower inflow requirements. But it's not that simple. If you ask study voters what is their main reason not to choose the teacher course, a much given answer is the lack of career opportunities and professional development. The solution for the VVD is therefore to make the teaching profession more attractive. As a teacher, it should be normal for you to work in a professional, challenging work environment, where you don't have to leave the class to make a career and where you don't suffer from piles of administrative obligations, but have time to teach. Fortunately, the cabinet is improving the framework conditions for an attractive profession. Training requirements have been increased and work is being done to reduce the workload through, among other things, Operation Rules Spaaring. I am looking forward to the proposals for Operation Rules Spare 2.0 as a result of my motion. There is also work on professionalisation through the National Education Agreement and the Teacher Agenda. But if you continue to challenge yourself as a teacher and always take that extra step, you don't have to ask yourself at the end what you're actually doing it for. For each year a small step in the scale without a real growth perspective and without extra reward? The VVD wants teachers to be able to actually make a career for the class. I have a few questions about that. The strengthening of the function mix was once intended to offer more teachers in primary education the perspective on a higher scale. However, the 40% target has not been achieved. How do the rulers explain this? Another question is about an investigation that my colleague Duisenberg has asked the Secretary of State for more career paths in the wage building in education. The Secretary of State has promised the VVD to sit down with social partners to take concrete steps so that teachers can break through sectors and have more opportunities to make a career. Can we still expect the results of this after the summer? Could the Secretary of State give us a tip of the veil on how this is discussed with the social partners? Finally. In order to combat the shortage of teachers, the profession of teacher must become more attractive, but the key to this is certainly not only in The Hague. Schools make a lot of difference in practice. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many of the primary schools currently have regular meetings with their teachers and meet with them on a regular basis? What opportunities does the cabinet have to further promote schools in this area? Because every teacher deserves a challenging professional work environment in which he or she is challenged to the maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u40	The VVD, Mrs. Becker, is talking about making more career for the class. That's a nice plea. Indeed, many teachers say that they would like more career opportunities. Does Mrs Becker agree with me that this includes an appropriate salary? If so, does the VVD think that teachers' salaries can be raised?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u41	It is, of course, difficult to talk today about extra money for education, but I will try to do so on the basis of what is in the VVD's election programme. The VVD does not so much believe in abolishing, for example, the whole bottom scale. That's actually putting a big bag of money in education and giving everyone a little bit of it. This reduces the differences rather than broadening the perspective. We believe that you should invest specifically in teachers and have made various proposals for this. For example, we have made a proposal for more and more support for teachers in the early years. We also suggested that the best teacher could earn just a little more. If you look at the wage building and the possibility of more career paths, it may well be that individual teachers get a lot more opportunities, without necessarily having to cost extra money for education. 'Cause there's been a misunderstanding. People are pretending that not a lot of extra money has gone into education in recent years to improve salaries. There's never been any cuts in education. From 2015 onwards, wages in education will rise faster than the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u42	That was a very long answer. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u43	I do find it interesting that Mrs Becker is bringing up the incentive payment here again. We often hear the VVD say that you should give better teachers a better salary. Does Mrs Becker also know that many teachers and the educational field themselves say that they don't think that incentive payment is such a good idea at all? We should, in fact, make sure that the career perspective is improved, including through a generic salary increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u44	The VVD represents and-and. Look at the career paths. I think we can do that already. That doesn't depend on a formation or extra money. I wonder what the Secretary of State is going to say about the investigation and what that has resulted in. "Performance pay" may have become a bit of a polluted word, but it must be possible for a teacher to do an extra specialization or training or take a step further. Then you should be able to get a little extra reward. There is that possibility in schools themselves. If teachers themselves don't need it, they don't have to. But we think there should be that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr Kwint, at least, I think Mr Kwint has something to ask for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u46	Sure, I wasn't just hanging around here for recreational reasons. I thought Mrs Westerveld said it very nicely. I haven't heard a teacher get excited about that "Beckerbonus." No one's waiting for the competition in the teacher's room. My question is about making the profession attractive. I think we can find each other in that respect. How does the VVD explain the difference in the extent of the shortage of teachers between primary and secondary school, between primary and secondary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u47	I find this an interesting question. I have not investigated the motivations of people to opt for secondary education rather than primary education, because that is what Mr Kwint suggests. I don't know those numbers. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u48	It's also in the letters that were sent to us. If you look at the expected shortage of teachers, that is a factor 2.5 higher in primary education than in secondary education; I'm not saying this right now. Could the appeal's attractiveness also be expressed in the amount paid to you at the end of each month as a thanksgiving for carrying out the profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u49	The only factual data on which I can base myself is in the Compass investigation that the cabinet sent along. Study voters have been asked about their motivation not to choose the profession of teacher. In response to this, the salary was sometimes mentioned, but it is also remarkable that when students were asked what salary was earned in their opinion, which was very often underestimated. I believe that there is still a chance there, too, by making sure that, among study voters, there is more clarity about the amount that a teacher deserves. That's part of it. The second part is the question of how to make the profession more attractive and offer more career prospects, because that is also an important reason why people do not ultimately opt for education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u50	I don't think we're gonna agree. In conclusion, I would strongly advise the cabinet not to communicate the salary of a primary school teacher too actively if it wants to recruit more teachers, because I fear that this might have a counterproductive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u51	We agree with the VVD on the career perspective; this needs to be improved and I have made proposals for that. The spokesperson of the VVD constantly talks about investigations, facts and all kinds of reports that have appeared in the past. Has Mrs Becker ever spoken to a teacher recently and, if so, what has come out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thanks for the question from DENK. By the way, we are all making proposals here today. DENK proposes to increase the starting salary, but she has made no proposals for this in her election programme. As a member of the VVD, I want to base myself on the actual data, but I also speak with teachers. I spoke to a teacher on the way back from Malieveld. I asked her why she was standing there that day. Maybe it was a coincidence, because of course there were many teachers there because of the salary, but she said: "It's not the salary that matters to me, it's the workload, because I don't get enough to teach. I mentioned this to the school board because I think I have way too much paperwork, but the board says it's me. I'm not getting out of there with the board. That's why I'm going to special education, where I get a smaller class and then I get to teach." That was an example for me that we really need to ensure that teachers are put more in a position to engage in the conversation at their own school in order to reduce that paper workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u53	It is remarkable to see how expert Mrs Becker tries to remove the discussion from the salary and immediately switch to work pressure and all kinds of other facets, which are certainly also very important. Surely she cannot think that in recent times she has not really spoken to any teacher who has spoken to her about the underpayment in primary education at this time? If not, I would like to open up a can of teachers who can tell her about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u54	I don't think I said I didn't talk to any teacher who said that. The spokesperson of DENK asked which teacher I last spoke to and what came out of it. I gave an honest answer to that. I think it is important that, when we talk to teachers, we also tell them the honest story. DENK is today proposing to increase starting salaries, but it has included zero euro in the electoral programme. The VVD does not stand for that; she wants to tell the honest story to teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u55	This will be your second interruption, Mr Kuzu. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u56	I recognize Mrs. Becker's story. Many teachers I speak to, especially teachers in primary school, start to say a little apology right away that it's not about the salary. Does Mrs Becker agree with me that she should immediately wash those people's ears, especially as a VVD, as a liberal, who still strives for something more in life than that below modal? Does she agree that you should wash your ears and say, "Don't do that?" You just have a profession, you have a profession, and you don't always get rid of the fact that it's not about the money. Of course it's about the money. Of course, there has to be a fair reward. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u57	No, I do not agree with Mr Beertema. If we, as politicians, tell people who tell us what they experience in practice what they should find, then we have a problem. I think it is very nice that there are teachers with intrinsic motivation for their profession, who say: it is not about the salary, but at the moment I am working my way around and sometimes see too little perspective on it. We have to do something about that. I brought that up today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u58	Yet these people, who are so financially self-deserving and simply saying that they are there for the children, make it very difficult for the other people to finally take action for a decent salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u59	Is Mrs. Beertema... Mrs. Becker, I apologize. Does Mrs Becker agree with me on the following? If the workload is reduced by 15%, let us say, and Mrs Becker is not going to argue for a 15% wage reduction, is that basically a salary increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u60	Well, no, actually, I don't. I'm thinking about that out loud. I think that the problem of workload is a separate problem and that we cannot say: if the workload goes down, we no longer need an improved career perspective. It's two things, and we have to deal with both of them. We need to reduce the workload the Cabinet is working hard on with Operation Rules Spare; I'm curious about Operation Rules Spare 2.0. In addition, there must be a career perspective. This can also mean that targeted investments can be made in the salary. Of course, we cannot anticipate this today, because it is being formed, but it is, as far as I am concerned, and-and-and-so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u61	But if the workload is not reduced by dropping tasks and those lost tasks are fulfilled by others, and if the teachers who no longer have to carry out these tasks continue to earn the same salary, then do you de facto speak of a salary increase? There's no other way. Or should we do the math test together again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u62	Perhaps Mr Van Raan and I have a different definition of workload. In my view, this is not so much about reducing tasks, but rather about removing the administrative burden that many teachers suffer from and the question of how to organise extra support in the classroom, so that there are additional hands for teachers so that they can come to what they are supposed to be: teaching. So that is not in less tasks, but in a different way in reducing work pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u63	I am glad that Mrs Becker said in her contribution that she does not want to abolish the LA scale. Some parties want that, but I think you're making the career perspective flatter. So it's okay to keep L.A. going. But does she agree with me that there should be fewer teachers in L.A.? See the arrangements for the function mix. If you're worth LB, that promotion has to be there and it can't be that because of financial problems you're not getting paid what you're supposed to earn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u64	In my view, Mr Bruins and I agree that it is a good idea to consider the reason why the 40% was not achieved. That's what I asked the Secretary of State. Money has become available and expectations have also been raised. I'm very curious if the school boards didn't want it, or if there was something on the teacher's side. So I would like to know the reason and wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr. Chairman. A good friend of mine is a primary school teacher. He prefers to call himself a teacher. He's a little younger than me, and he's only got a few minutes left. Then he can retire. He's eagerly looking forward to that. Because he's deeply unhappy. He's had so much fun in his work. For years he was such a passionate teacher, a teacher with a story, you know them, such a fallen bookcase who knew so much about history, our patriotic history above all, about which he could tell exciting stories. A teacher with whom his students and the parents could always go. Such a teacher you won't forget for the rest of your life. He was also difficult, especially in recent years, when he had to deal with managers and directors who had meanwhile become almost all women who worked part-time but wanted to control and fool him, not only in what he had to teach but above all in how to teach. With methods, models, endless consultations, meetings and especially written reporting and accountability, including in the form of action plans. There was no time to spontaneously move into the polder with his group and to give biology in nature. He has taught generations of students love nature, on the ditch side, in the polder forests. He laid with his pupils folk gardens and many of them only then understood that tomatoes and strawberries did not come from the factory. But none of that's been around for years. He writes action plans in his spare time. Education is sick, sick to death. It's made sick by meddling, control, bullying managers, directors and politicians. When I talk about politicians, of course I mean mainly left-wing politicians, because it is mainly PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks who have accepted education in a pathway that was already deployed in 1968. With the march through the institutions and then, yes, I'm just explaining. They have mastered the education. They've drawn high walls around that domain that no one gets past except our kind of people, as Pim Fortuyn called it so beautiful. With their ideology, they control teacher training, universities, and the educational umbrella. Mrs Den Besten, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr De Graaf and Mr Heerts, there are no PVVs among them, let me just say that they are in each other's supervisory councils, they are the administrators who travel through the country to do interim jobs that they get pushed through from their left-wing friends. We see a monoculture, an incestuous administrative culture that is solidified in left-wing conservative thinking, unable to make fundamental changes. That change is necessary, but I do not mean the eternal, large, comprehensive reforms that have to change everything, with which that left-wing educational elite always saddles up the teachers. The new learning, the second phase, the competence education, Education2032, the iPad schools. We have to go the other way. Throw out all those pedagogues who can't stand it. Send out all those process managers and innovators. We have way too many of those co-eaters from the educational grape that only have one interest, that smokes their own chimney. 'Cause where did we end up? At the point where education is heading towards disaster, a creeping disaster of teacher shortages. Something must be done about that. This workload, which I have already mentioned, is not caused by us but mainly by our own executives. They have to stop, but they're not going to. What it takes is for all those angry teachers to take matters into their own hands. Get angry but also be self-aware, I say to all teachers, be proud of your professionalism and finally turn against your own executives who make all that work of yours a visitation. Don't strike, don't stand on the Malieveld, because that's not helping. Yes, that only leads to a tough promise for Mr Asscher's conduct, who is suddenly about to commit blackmail in order to pick up higher salaries but who is now voting against our PVV motion to replace LA with LB. I'm gonna tell those teachers, help yourself, you're gonna hit the kids and the parents with stakes. Instead, do what that friend of mine did about who I just told you. He got a class handed over from a young colleague. He very proudly handed him a few thick files with stacks of action plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u66	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u67	Get in the polder if you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u68	It is always a pleasure to listen to Mr Beertema. I also very much agree with him on all this administrative burden. He's got a point about that. But Mr Bertema is doing an assailant here. Let's be honest. He is in favour of abolishing the LA scale. Looking back at the PVV election programme, I see EUR 1.9 billion savings in education, including EUR 1 billion on the lump sum in primary and secondary education. How is Mr Beertema going to pay for this wonderful plan, which has not yet been defended?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u69	The motion already stated that research showed that the growth of expenditure per pupil, 1.9% per year between 1998 and 2012 was 1.9% per year! However, the growth of non-teaching staff has resulted in a considerable increase, but never in smaller classes, never in more teachers and never in higher salaries. I would point out to Mr Rog that in 2002 total expenditure for OCW was 24.2 billion and in 2016 it was 38.7 billion. Those are huge differences. There's been so much money. Every year there is an overrun of 1 billion, 0.8 billion, 0.7 billion and so on. In 2005 it is 2.2 billion, in 2006 it is 1.4 billion. Those are huge amounts of money. No one can tell me that there's no money there to replace LB's L.A. scale. If we stop, I said that in the motion too, Mr Rog, and you should be able to endorse that... call a halt to the growth of the staff who are not working in the primary process. And do so not only in primary education, but also in vo and hbo. It can be paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u70	Then there is still a striking point that the PVV in the electoral programme cuts just EUR 1 billion in primary education and apparently wants to add EUR 1.8 billion to it. I don't know where it came from. I haven't read this point in the pass-through before. I think, if we get such a motion, we should be able to see where that money comes from properly and thoroughly. So far, you have only been cutting back on education and are going to spend more on education at the same time. This seems to me to be extremely complicated, especially in primary education, where the overhead, that low of all the administrative nomads, as Mr Beertema always calls it so beautiful, is, frankly, extremely limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u71	That's right. Primary education may not have listened very well to me, but it will have been prompted by necessity to call for the 80/20 distribution to be maintained. It was 80% for the primary process, for everything that happens between the teacher and the student, the core of education, and 20% for the hassle, as Secretary of State Rutte once called it. That's what primary school really is all about. In the vo that direction is already in sight, in the HBO a lot can happen. However, that is not entirely the story. The story is, of course, that all these exceedances, every year, are all spent on wrong things. We read it in the government's letter. The money's not gone, of course not. It's not gone, it's spent on all the wrong things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u73	It should have been spent on salaries for primary school teachers, just to more people in the classroom. The money's here. It is my appeal to all parties to support this motion, which I will, of course, table again this afternoon, unless the Secretary of State says that he is so delighted that I do not have to submit her anymore and that he is just going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you, Mr Beertema. I call Mrs van den Hul, on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mr. Chairman. This week I was with many of my colleagues here and thousands of teachers at the Malieveld. Two teachers of De Horizon from Amsterdam wore a banner with the text: "If you think knowledge is expensive, you don't know what stupidity costs." As far as I'm concerned, it's the best banner of the day. It sums up in one sentence why investing in education is always worthwhile. Investing in our children is the best investment for the future. Good education falls or stands with the teacher and master in front of the class. This means that we must be prepared to really support teachers, not only by saying that we appreciate the important work they are doing, but also by delivering butter to the fish. Because the elementary school teachers who came into action this week just have a point. With the support of D66, ChristenUnion and SGP, this cabinet has taken the zero line off the table, so that teachers have made a bit of progress. That was a good first step, but it is far from enough. The PvdA believes that all teachers in primary education should be better paid. As far as we are concerned, steps must be taken in this regard in the forthcoming budget. To this end, the PvdA will make every effort. Many teachers indicate that they are dealing with a towering workload. The numbers show that, too. Above average many teachers give to being overworked. There are many burn-outs, all of which have been mentioned. Master Peter of primary school De Zonnebloem here in The Hague, where I was a guest on Tuesday, described his work as a colander with eleven holes that he cannot close with ten fingers. Since we cannot give Master Peter an eleventh finger, there is only one thing on it: we need to close some holes. I therefore ask the Secretary of State what he is going to do with the General Education Association's plea to make the profession more attractive by guiding and relieving start-ups and side-instromers, making arrangements for older teachers, and providing teachers with greater autonomy. This debate was originally requested by Mrs Westerveld to discuss the shortage of teachers. Although salary improvement and work pressure reduction are essential to reduce the shortage of teachers, we are also facing an acute problem today. Some schools are already struggling to find qualified teachers. In the near future, the deficit will only increase. The rulers call the so-called green picking of the pabos undesirable, but they do not, as far as I am concerned, provide sufficient clarity as to how they intend to stop schools from attracting unauthorized pabo students to the classroom. Can they still do that here? The letter also contains a number of suggestions in the context of the six main lines of the teacher shortage approach plan. I would like to hear which of these possible solutions the Cabinet considers most promising and to what extent these solutions will contribute to reducing the deficit. I come to a conclusion, but not without saying once again that we as parliamentarians would not be sitting here today without the masters and teachers who taught us. I am thinking in particular of Miss Hannie, Miss Brenda and Master Bert, who encouraged me to get the best out of myself. That's exactly what you give every child: a teacher who gets the best out of them. And so now it's up to us to do something in return for all those teachers who do their stinking best every day, by providing an honest salary and less workload. That is what we stand for and I hope that the other parties in this Chamber will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u76	It's a lovely pleasing that I can't take anything off. We're all gonna see it. Mrs Van den Hul spoke to teachers. That's very good. Did they also say to her that it would be very nice if Minister Asscher finally came forward with an amendment to the Work and Security Act, so that it would also be possible to find replacements? This is one of the many causes of the overexcited situation in primary schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u77	No, the teachers didn't talk to me about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u78	That is strange, because with me, and I think with many here in the Chamber, they always talk about it. Well, then it passes. Apparently, they'd rather not talk about it with the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u79	Maybe. I have talked extensively with these teachers about the points I raised: shed with eleven holes and ten fingers to stop those holes, about the workload and indeed about the remaining reward. That's what I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u80	Isn't one of those 11 holes by any chance unable to find replacements? That wasn't a problem at that school?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u81	Not at that school.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u82	Like Mrs Van den Hul, I was at the Malieveld last Tuesday. That dull blow we heard when Asscher took the floor was the last remaining credibility of the Labour Party that fell. I find it really incredible that the Labour Party is making a number here, while in its own election programme it only increases the pay gap between primary and secondary education. In its own election programme, the PvdA does not say anything about abolishing the LA scale in primary education. In my view, the PvdA does not want to make any changes to the Spring Paper on this point, while the PvdA still has a responsibility. Can Mrs Van den Hul explain that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr Rog asks me to explain a lot of things. I'll start at the beginning. In recent years, we have invested continuously in education. We did that against the current, I might add, during the crisis years. Zero line's off the track. Everyone had to turn in, measures were needed across the board. We have taken that responsibility, and these measures have hurt, which all Dutch people can talk to. But as soon as we could, we got the teachers off the mark, thanks to the constructive cooperation of a number of parties in this Chamber. Unfortunately, the CDA wasn't there. As regards the discussions on the Spring Paper, that debate is scheduled for next week. I don't want to anticipate that. Why does the PvdA think this point is important? This can be read back in our election programme, in which we invest in salaries in vo and in p.o.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u84	I maintain my conclusion that the PvdA programme increases the pay gap between primary and secondary education and that in a motion the PvdA calls on the next cabinet to make all kinds of investments. So far it has not taken any initiative to do so in the Spring paper. To be honest, I find this a little cheap, especially for a party that refuses to talk to itself in the place where the lines for the future are now being explained, and here it smears syrup around the mouths of teachers, actually adding nothing financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u85	I find it quite appalling how we are taking the same approach here on a subject on which I read virtually nothing back in the CDA election programme. The PvdA was the only party that made structuralally more money in the election programme for an increase in teacher salaries. In this respect, our current position for the teachers can only be seen as a logical follow-up to our course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u86	Mr. Chairman. How do you become a good teacher? Then you must not only have the necessary knowledge and skills, but above all you must have inspiration. That's not something you artificially generate, what you order or what you can get out of a jar, any more than you can open a can of extra teachers. But that spirit can be transferred. Now that we see the shortage of teachers coming towards us, it is good to try to get that spark that is needed to jump to as many potential teachers as possible. But we shouldn't be jumping like a cat in the tights. It is important that the cabinet writes at the beginning of the letter that we should not add water to the wine when recruiting teachers. In recent years, the pabo has been working on a firmer image of the pabo, inter alia through strengthened demands. The SGP sees the risk that we will reverse these efforts with all kinds of well-intentioned initiatives. Think of the so-called crash courses. How do you come up with such a name for an emergency school teacher? That name alone gives little confidence in success in education. Why are public funds being made available to such initiatives? Don't you think this is a good teacher? Or we're doing it all wrong in standard teacher training; but I don't believe that. In the media we see examples of teachers who are already placed in class during their training. The SGP is a warm supporter of dual forms of training, but with a too early picking of teachers, we can finally get sour grapes. The SGP considers it important for the public authorities to monitor the compliance of schools with teachers' competence requirements. Can the cabinet confirm that the inspection will be extra alert to teachers' competence in the coming years? After all, that is a basic necessity. The SGP considers it important for skilled teachers who have found work outside education to be returned to education as much as possible. The cabinet shares this commitment and identifies a number of instruments. The problem is that many teachers have almost reached retirement age. Why should this retirement age be taken as a terminal? In this cabinet period, a bill was adopted to facilitate work after reaching the AOW age. There are therefore more opportunities for this target group to make an appropriate contribution to education in a creative way. Is the Secretary of State prepared to elaborate this line of thought? In the letter, the directors elaborate six lines in order to counter the threat and sometimes already manifesting shortage of teachers in primary education. In this respect, the conviction of the SGP is not in line. The recognition of professional space is crucial for the status of a profession. A recent report by TIAS, the Tilburg Institute of Academic Studies, shows that teachers and school leaders are conned by an overdose of control. That's a very enlightening investigation. There is above all a one-way movement of expectations from the world of policy towards the school. That image does not encourage you to opt for a job in education. On the contrary, this will put out the fire. Does the Cabinet endorse the findings of this report and what possibilities does the Cabinet see for the overload I did not invent that term, but it is used to reduce it and further increase the autonomy of education professionals, teachers and school leaders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u87	Mr. Chairman. Miss Ilse often works ten hours a day. She teaches a composite class of groups 6 and 7 in Rotterdam-Zuid. Many children have a language disadvantage, but she doesn't always have time to pay extra attention to those children, because she doesn't have support in class. Once in a while, Miss Ilse has Corvee: washing, dishwasher cleaning and making coffee and tea. Those are tasks that a janitor could do fine, but she works at a small school where there's no money for a janitor. Administrative chores also take a lot of time, so she can often prepare her lessons at home in the evening. She does all this for €200 net per month. Why would a student choose the pabo? The example I have just outlined in practice is no exception. You only have to turn on the TV or open the newspaper and it explains why you should not choose the teacher's profession. Of course someone chooses to teach the profession out of passion, to be able to mean something for children, but that passion cannot be lived by a teacher. That same passion is now eagerly abused. Teachers take on all these extra tasks and work those hours extra, because who else is gonna do that? Teachers don't want the kids getting hurt. If they didn't have that much passion for their profession, primary education would have collapsed a long time ago as a house of cards, but it's been enough and they're really taking action right now. We were able to see that last Tuesday. One hour of strike had a lot of impact and shows that a solution must now be found. In his letter, the Secretary of State has listed all kinds of initiatives to get more people into education, but should he not first make the profession more attractive with a higher salary and better working conditions? I would like to return to our debate on 10 May on the workload in education. In that I quoted Annelies as a poignant example. She had received 26 contracts in the last 6 years. She had a burnout at home because of it. Today, the sequel was in the newspaper: Annelies got right from the judge and the school has to offer her a permanent contract. It's sad that you have to go to court for a permanent contract. So many teachers start out: as a substitute, without a view or a view of a permanent job. Of the graduate pabo students from 2014, only 21% have a permanent contract. Maintaining teachers also plays an important role in the deficit. Many young teachers quit in the first year because of the high workload. Shame! Good guidance in the first year is essential. The Secretary of State states that guidance of starting teachers is a priority and that discussions are being held between the PO Council and OCW. When can we expect concrete action? For this good guidance it is important that the workload is reduced and that there should be help in the classroom. Why is there no generation pact in education? Link young teachers to older teachers. The older teachers can work less and the younger can be offered a permanent contract. That seems to us to be a win-win situation. We have talked about the huge shortage of teachers, but I also mention those who support education. They are available but are not used enough. They can ensure that teachers' workload is reduced, can't they? Then teachers can concentrate on what matters: teaching. The Secretary of State has indicated that the money goes well into education, but why can't some schools hire that janitor? 50PLUS likes to hear from the Secretary of State how that is possible. Once again, we would like to recall that the PO Council reports that EUR 375 million is required every year to cover reasonably the costs. Is this recognised by the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u88	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u89	Yeah, I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS has a lot of sympathy for the actions and will continue to support the teachers in their struggle. I complimented Secretary Asscher yesterday. He promised the teachers a raise. That sounds good and quite right, but can I assume that Mr Asscher's colleagues share this view?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr. Chairman. Last Tuesday we received in action 351,860 signatures from teachers and parents who are seriously concerned about the workload, shortage of teachers and salaries in primary education. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation and respect for the initiators of PO in action. They have been able to bring the concerns that live in primary education to the attention of the whole of the Netherlands in a short space of time, in addition to their busy and difficult work in education. I understand the points they raise very well. D66 shares those concerns. That is why we have allocated a great deal of money in our election programme to reduce the workload of teachers. Smaller classes to give children more attention, more time for the teacher to deepen and improve in the profession, extra hands in and to the class to lighten the work, for example through the use of indispensable janitors and class assistants: D66 makes more money for this than any of the previous parties that have spoken here. There is also a call for the pay gap between p.o. and to close it. I understand that appeal, because the work of a teacher in primary education is hard and important. Good education starts from a very good base. However, I would also like to be honest, and I have said this more often, and I have not made false promises, promises that I cannot deliver. Beautiful words are nice on a stage or in a newspaper, but if you don't want to turn those words into deeds, then teachers have nothing to do with that. There is now some uncertainty as to whether or not the outgoing cabinet is going to make extra money available for salaries. For the moment, I see only a reduction in education in the Spring Paper. My question to the Minister is: is the outgoing cabinet going back on this austerity? Vice Prime Minister Asscher said yesterday that the PvdA ministers in the cabinet will not sign the budget until teachers' salaries go up. That's right, that's how I'm gonna ask the PvdA Minister present today. And I'll ask the Secretary of State what he thinks of that. The Wwz, the Work and Security Act, remains a pain. I will leave it for a moment, given the time, but it could perhaps offer some relief as to which, to name but a few, eleven holes in the cobblestone. I come up with what this is all about: the shortage of teachers in primary education. That is a big and threatening problem. We've stood still for too long. Steps need to be taken. This means making the profession more attractive: less workload, more time, more trust and a good reward. I would add that the key to all of this is the workload. Indeed, if we manage to reduce the workload, we will also succeed in making many more people in education work full-time or more than we do now. The problem is not that there are too few teachers, too few teachers and teachers. The problem is that they don't work enough. Well, that sounds crazy, but if you have a four-day job in education, you actually have to take a three-day job, because you already have four days' work. That's happening way too much. For me, a very important part of the solution to the shortage of teachers is currently in reducing the workload. If we do that, people may be able to take a somewhat bigger job in a very decent way. I think that's best. Then we don't need side-instromers. Because they are beautiful, but do not mistake what this profession requires. This means that we need to ensure a good position of starting teachers, with good guidance. It also means stimulating side influx, where it is important that quality is maintained. And it means checking out obstructive rules, such as the scheme for legally reduced tuition fees for a second study in the education sector. That applies to everyone, unless you already have a diploma in education. It is not possible for people who want to retrain within education, for example into a deficit class, to make use of this scheme. Do the rulers see opportunities to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u91	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u92	I come to my final question, Mr President. I would like to have a reaction from the directors to the delta plan, that is what I call it from the AOB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you. Very briefly, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr Van Meenen mentioned an interesting measure to reduce the high tuition fees. My group also had doubts as to whether we should do something about tuition in general. For example, we could think about saying to people who choose education: if you work in education for a number of years, the government will give you the tuition money back. That may be a wild way of thinking, but what does D66 have to say about such a plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u95	At the moment, of course, we must be careful to spend money too easily. Mrs Westerveld also understands this; her party has also sat at the table. In our election programme, however, there is the measure to reduce tuition fees for second studies to regular tuition fees, regardless of the study. We have money to pay for that. Not for this plan. I think it's a nice plan. It shows that raising our children is the most important profession in the Netherlands. But far beyond "sympathetic" I can't go right now. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-4.u96	We have come here at the end of the first term of office. After the suspension, we'll begin with Mr. Van Rossum's remembrance. The order of business is followed and the Minister and the State Secretary reply to the questions raised in the first period.
