ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin by saying goodbye to Mr Dijsselbloem. He wrote a suicide note. I'm gonna read it to you now. "Dear President, With this letter I inform you of my decision to deposit my parliamentary membership on 25 October. I therefore leave Dutch politics. And that's hard for me. I can only look back with gratitude on more than twelve years of parliamentary membership and almost five years of ministerial office. An intensive time, in which, under our eyes, society has changed rapidly and we had the task of constantly adapting the Netherlands, while preserving the achievements we are so proud of. I have tried to contribute to this in my "political time" from my social democratic ideals. I borrow the concept of "political time" from Saskia Stuiveling; the time given to us, the time available. And it doesn't relate to the many ambitions we have. As an optimist, I believe in continuous improvement of society, in small steps. But the crisis forced us to take bigger steps. And these brought us where we are now. The Netherlands is doing well again, we are in Europe's leading group and the euro area is again a driving force for the global economy. The Labour Party has once again contributed to this. And I'm proud of that. But the great steps of recent years have also left their mark. And the result of 15 March is the political price paid for that. This result brings us to a new period in which my party must set the course again for the future. It's never finished and that makes determining the moment of departure so difficult. This time it was harder than ever to put the balance back on the list. My neighbors also need attention, more than I have been able to give them in recent years. Loyalty to my party and the duty I felt to account in the campaign for the choices made in recent years, were decisive. After all, the election results of 15 March determined the time of departure. The Labour Party, my party, has to move on and needs nine guns for that. I have now come to the conclusion that in this role, at this stage, I do not have that firepower. Mr President, I am leaving the Chamber now. I will finish my mandate as President of the Eurogroup in the coming months until mid-January. It was an honour to have been a member of your Chamber for so many years, to be part of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet and to have been able to represent the Netherlands abroad. Thank you, the colleagues and all the staff for their cooperation. Take care of yourself. Jeroen Dijsselbloem."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-tweedekamer-2.u2	Now I'm gonna say something back. Dear Mr. Dijsselbloem. Dear Gerda, Josha and Sam, welcome. Dear Jeroen, When you were asked by the PvdA to be on the candidate list in 1998, you started talking to PvdA member Servaes Huys. He said to you, "You know, going into politics isn't a difficult decision at all. Get out. That's hard. When do you put it behind you and how?" That moment is now upon us. Today you leave the House of Representatives and national politics behind you. You do that with a heavy feeling, you said in your letter. But the fire is gone, and you want to make way for a new generation. Many people will remember you as Minister of Finance and President of the eurogroup. What is sometimes forgotten is that your history in the Chamber is considerably longer. It started in 1993 as a policy officer. You met the PvdA and the Chamber from the inside. Five years later, your MP became a portfolio of public transport, spatial planning and taxation and later security, integration and foreign policy. With your business and solution-oriented attitude, you managed to do things. In 2004, together with former colleague Mariëtte Hamer and Margot Kraneveldt, then from the LPF, you submitted an initiative bill in which schools were obliged to contribute to the integration of pupils into Dutch society. That proposal was adopted by the Upper House in 2005. In 2010 you were a member of the Parliamentary Working Group on Future Exploring Youth Care. The report produced by the working group has played an important role in the decentralisation of youth care. But you have received the most appreciation for your presidency of the Committee on Educational Renewals, in the popular sense: the Dijsselbloem Commission. With that research, you threw a rock in the water, and the circles we kept seeing for a long time. Since the presentation of the report, more than 100 debates have referred to the Dijsselbloem Committee. The question raised in debates on innovations in education to this day is: "Is it Dijsselbloem-proof?" One of the teachers who took part in a committee hearing e-mailed you afterwards. "Although I'm not a PvdA-camper," he wrote, "I would like to congratulate you on your performance as chairman of the Committee of Inquiry. Respectful, yet persistent and critically guarding the thread during the interviews." It's a qualification you hear about you more often. In 2013, the parliamentary press called you politician of the year. They called you "cool-blooded" and "good at extinguishing inside fires." Wouter Koolmees once said that you are business and factual, of the clear line. "Jeroen," Koolmies said, "has a lot of patience and is very straight. If he has an opinion on something or thinks something is bullshit, he says so." And according to Elbert Dijkgraaf, you're someone with strong ideals, but you know how to separate them from what's in your eyes in a deal. And, also, a quote from Dijkgraaf: when someone starts boxing, you fight back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-tweedekamer-2.u3	Yeah, you said all that, Elbert. Jeroen, you fight back, but always on the content. Jeroen, today you step out of the Chamber and out of politics shortly after the new Chamber has taken office. It's no secret that I'm sorry. Everyone makes their own decision, but I think your constituents will miss you. We're gonna miss you. I'm gonna miss you, too. For almost 20 years, I've worked closely with you. Whatever we're gonna miss is your heart for our democracy. "The Netherlands is a strong and prosperous country," you once said, "because at the end of the political debate we are able to reach agreement." That was the essence for you: the search for consensus. You dissected big problems into small cubes, and then step by step to work towards a common solution. That method combined you with a huge file knowledge. You knew everything, including the files of rulers and, I know from my own experience, also of all members of the political groups. That was sometimes pleasant, but sometimes very annoying. After almost twenty years in the center of power, full of spotlights, you're going to look for something that's gonna light up the fire again. You're gonna think about it in your garden in Wageningen, between the chickens and the pigs. Or maybe on the dance floor, during Sunday Salsa in Café Loburg. It'll cheer you up!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-tweedekamer-2.u4	Dear Jeroen, whatever comes your way, on behalf of the entire Chamber, I would like to thank you so much for your years of commitment and wish you all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-tweedekamer-2.u5	Now a boring announcement: this resignation has been made to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It's a weird moment, but we're gonna keep going anyway. We're going to the voting list.
