ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-eerstekamer-3.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. On 8 May last, Suzanne Steigenga-Kouwe, former senator of the Labour Party, died at the age of 96. She was a member of the First Chamber from 2 March 1976 until 13 September 1983. On 28 October 1920 Suzanna Elisabeth Kouwe was born in Zeeuwse Zuidzande. Her father was head of a public primary school, her mother was a teacher. Ms Steigenga-Kouwe studied social geography at the University of Utrecht at the age of 17. In her field she was the only student from Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. Due to her dedication and perseverance she also became one of the best students and obtained her candidates cum laude. After her studies, Ms Steigenga-Kouwe worked successively as a teacher of geography, socio-economic researcher and as an employee of the National Plan. In this latter function, she made monographs of the border regions devastated by the war. In 1947, Mrs Steigenga-Kouwe was fired because of the fact that she had married. It would be another ten years before married women were allowed to work as civil servants or in education. Mrs Steigenga-Kouwe continued her scientific work even after her resignation. In 1950 she obtained her PhD on a thesis on her native region of Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. From 1955 she worked as a part-time professor of sociology at higher vocational education in Rotterdam for thirteen years. Mrs Steigenga-Kouwe became a member of the Labour Party soon after the founding of the party. In the 1950s she held a number of commission positions and was secretary of the Kralingen district council. In 1959, Ms Steigenga-Kouwe was appointed city council member in Rotterdam. In doing so, she was the fifth generation in her family to fulfill a political career. In the Rotterdam council she managed the Social Affairs portfolio. She was delighted to contribute to the reconstruction of the city. In 1962 the Rotterdam family traded for Naarden and Mrs Steigenga-Kouwe had to leave her political work to her regret. In her autobiography, she said that she had sometimes wished she had lived in a time when women's emancipation had improved. She observed that women had barely received paid employment, let alone career prospects. Mrs Steigenga-Kouwe therefore created her own opportunities. In 1970 she was appointed a member of the Provincial States of North Holland. Here she was very active in the field of spatial planning. On 2 March 1976, Mrs Steigenga-Kouwe was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber of the States General. In this house she was chairman of the permanent committee for development cooperation, deputy chairman of the permanent committee for agriculture and fisheries and member of the committee for Spatial Planning and Housing. She took her Chamberwork very carefully and made sure that she knew the background to every legislative change. The assessment of legislative proposals on their political-scientific merits greatly appealed to Mrs Steigenga-Kouwe. Playing political games all the less. She kept a great distance from the rulers, in order to be able to do her work as independently as possible. Preferably she didn't even talk to them. Mrs Steigenga-Kouwe has held several administrative positions during her working life. For example, she was Vice-President of the National Women's Council and of the Dutch Family Council. In that capacity, she arranged for family allowances to be paid to the mother instead of to the father. Furthermore, Ms Steigenga-Kouwe was administratively active for the Association of Free-Sense Reformed Persons, member of the Supervisory Board of the VARA, member of the Central Statistical Commission. She was also the first female chairman of the Royal Netherlands Geography Society. May our respect for her person and her merits for our parliamentary democracy be to support her family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
