ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The aim of this bill is to promote internationalisation in higher education. It empowers higher education and scientific research institutions to provide fully accredited training abroad in the Netherlands. These may include joint training courses, joint graduation courses and joint programmes provided by two or more Dutch institutions or by Dutch institutions with one or more foreign higher education institutions. The legislative proposal clarifies the arrangements to be made with partner institutions on the content and form of the programme and the prevention of double tuition fees. It aims to make the location climate in the Netherlands more attractive and to offer foreign and Dutch researchers a better career perspective. It is in line with policies in other European countries and with the future scenarios that the Rathenau Institute and VSNU have set out in the report entitled Choices for the Future of Dutch Science. The members of the CDA Group understand that this can contribute to further profiling of Dutch higher education, that it can strengthen international networks and that it can promote the international exchange of students and teachers. Members agree with the objective. They also know that universities have been waiting for an extension of internationalisation opportunities for some time. For the CDA, the main concerns were to ensure academic freedom, for example in education in countries like China, for which the University of Groningen now has plans, to prevent transnational education purely for financial or marketing reasons, of undesirable competitive relationships between Dutch and foreign establishments and of a possible brain drain of teachers at Dutch institutions and to ensure that Dutch tax money does not go to establishments abroad, even in case of bankruptcy. It was also important for the members that there is clarity about what happens to the proceeds, that Dutch supervision is secured by agreements in advance and that the consent requirements are legally anchored. Our group welcomes the clarification from the government, the letter of amendment and the adoption of amendments which will make these points more secure. The Group would like to take a closer look at one point. That is the ius PhD candidate, a fairly basic point. With the bill, promotions are no longer only reserved for professors, but may also be done by non-professors, provided that sufficient quality is guaranteed. Of course, members have taken note of the Minister's replies. It states that quality is guaranteed by the Promotional College, which, according to law, can only consist of professors and has the exclusive power to appoint a promoter. Thus, only professors can determine whether a university staff member is sufficiently competent. It also has a duty to draw up a promotional regulation governing the role and powers of those involved in promotion. However, members would like to hear from the Minister how the bill guarantees that there will be no sliding scale, as happened elsewhere in education with first and second graders. We can see that there are fewer and fewer first-graders and more and more unauthorized people in the classrooms. Members would also like to hear the Minister's response to the concern in the field that the bill would help to make it easier for institutions to recruit more PhD candidates and thus more finance, even if that is not the purpose of the law. Does the Minister agree with the members that that would be a wrong incentive? Recently, the Chamber received a letter from the VSNU. A further proposal is made to ensure the scientific status of the intended promoter better, now that the bill does not necessarily require a promoter to be a professor anymore. The proposal reads: "Before the dean makes the presentation, he/she ensures that the professor has been consulted in the field in question. The dean reports on the reaction of the professor concerned to the promotional college." Members would like to hear the Minister's response to this and, if the Minister can support the VSNU's proposal or vision, an answer to the question of how this can be secured or secured through the legislative proposal. Members would also like to hear the Minister's response to the definition proposed by the VSNU regarding "sufficient competence." Finally. Can the Minister comment on the state of play regarding the content and preparation of the AMVBs accompanying this bill? The University of Groningen intends to start training in China. By letter, she has promised that the University Council, the Faculty Councils and the Participation Council will have a right of assent to the decision to start a training programme in China. Can the Minister indicate whether these consent rights will also be part of the AMvBs, so that they are also secured in new cases at other universities? Would that not be in line with the planned increase in participation in the recently accepted Chamber Act strengthening the administrative power of educational institutions? Members look forward to the Minister's response as always with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u3	Mrs. Martens finished faster than I thought. I have one more question for her. Dependances abroad are not without risk. I think I have also heard Mrs Martens say that all the risks are covered. This also applies to questions about consent rights and the like. Does Mrs Martens think that the need for an annex abroad has been demonstrated? If so, what is the need?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u4	That's a good question. The Minister explained and explained this in several texts. I think it is a natural development in relation to other developments elsewhere in Europe. Maybe the Minister can explain it one more time. I had originally put this as a question in my contribution but finally deleted it, because I thought the Minister had already answered it sufficiently. I would like to ask the Minister to explain it again so that we can include it in the final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u5	Is Mrs Martens aware of the research carried out by the Rathenau Institute? This shows that Dutch education is very well on the map internationally and that there is no need for such an extension, but above all that there could be some improvement in other areas in order to maintain that position. Does she know this investigation and then what is her opinion on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u6	I have seen the texts of the Rathenau Institute and the VSNU concerning the choice for the future of Dutch science in particular in the light of the desirability they also formulate to follow this possibility of extending the ius PhD candidates. The fact that Dutch education is well on the map is well known; it is not intended for this purpose either. However, it is an additional possibility to extend it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u7	Then I really do read the research differently from Mrs Martens, because it more or less indicates that this is not the right route, that there would be need for reinforcement in other places and that it is actually a missed opportunity. At least that's how I read it between the lines. But I understand that Mrs Martens did not pay any attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. The proposed law aims to promote the internationalisation of higher education and scientific research. I should like to thank the Minister on behalf of my group for answering the questions put in writing. First of all, I would like to address the issue of ius PhD candidates in this debate. My group understands the desire of non-professionals to be able to act as a promoter instead of as a co-promotor, where appropriate. The written exchange of views on this matter between this Chamber and the Government has attracted the attention of field parties. Support for the bill has been expressed by the Academy and the Young Academy. My group has also taken note with approval of the adapted hand-outs for the VSNU promotional colleges on the proposal of the rector's college. This amended hand-out, combined with the government's replies, is to a large extent a response to my group's previously expressed concerns. For example, the promoter is given robust quality requirements and the professor responsible is involved in the appointment of the promoter. However, my group is not yet fully reassured and there are a few questions left. Firstly, the question is whether, and to what extent, this hand-out will be respected. Can the Minister indicate to what extent the hand-out has so far been actually used by the universities? How will the Minister ensure that the amended hand-out is respected? Then I come to the question: how does the Minister himself look at the content of this amended hand-out? Deans may, according to the scheme, propose PhDs, associate professors, as a promoter to the Promotions College. Before the dean makes this presentation, he ensures that the professor has been consulted in the field in question. The dean then reports on the professor's reaction to the promotional college. This therefore constitutes a substantive right of advice for the professor concerned and not a right of consent. On the other hand, the Minister himself may, according to the reply, imagine that the appointment of new promoters will not take place without the agreement of the professor responsible for the field in question. So that's a right of consent. The members of my group are in complete agreement here with the Minister. Professors are, after all, primarily responsible for the development of the field of science assigned to them and for the content of the education to be given in this field, ex article 9.19 of the WHW. Now, in the case of a PhD, it is a question of both science and education, namely training as an independent researcher. How does the lack of a right of assent relate to that responsibility and to the Minister's vision? Why is there a right of advice, but not a right of consent? If the choice of a promoter against the advice of the professor in retrospect turns out to be an unfortunate one and the research and training are not sufficiently advanced, what about the legal responsibility of that professor in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u9	I need a reality check on Mr Bruijn's story. He keeps talking about the professor involved. Is it different, for example, if you have multiple professors in an adjacent field or overlapping disciplines? Does the dean have the freedom to consult one of the professors? If he has the approval or a positive opinion from one of them, you still have that other professors aren't involved, right? Does it matter if you appointed another professor or a uhd? In other words: this can become a very principled argument. We can talk about this here, but if we look at it from the real world, it is much less unambiguous than Mr Bruijn is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u10	On the one hand, it can be said that it is of course already the case that you have research or PhD courses on the cutting edge of different chairs. In these cases, it is customary that you have two promoters, for example, and that both professors are involved. On the other hand, this is how I interpret Mr Ganzevoort's words that the amended hand-out of the VSNU does not in fact provide for clarity in the area that Mr Ganzevoort is now referring to. That is a supplementary question to the Minister, if I may interpret it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u11	It is sometimes common that there are several escorts, but that is not always the case. That doesn't change in this situation either. I believe that the uncertainty that exists today remains on this point. To appoint a uhd as a promoter is no different from to appoint a professor. So the question is whether this is not a little unnecessary hair clovering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u12	That's right, but I didn't talk about this ambiguity either. I am talking about the ambiguity that arises if the professor in question could indeed be two if it were to be a crossroads, and would not agree with the intention of appointing an uhd from that field as a promoter and then that route will begin. What about the responsibility of the professor in question? I will go into that further, but that is what I see as my input. So if the choice of a promoter against the advice of the professor turns out to be unfortunate in retrospect and the research and training are not sufficiently advanced, what about the legal responsibility of that professor, or professors, I say to Mr Ganzevoort, on the subject? The Government states in the reply that the professor remains responsible. But how can a person be held responsible for something he is not responsible for? If a negative opinion on his part would relieve the professor of his responsibility for the promotional process in question, is that not contrary to and therefore does it not require an amendment of Article 9.19 WHW? But more importantly, the question is not about the importance of the professor concerned, but about the importance of science in general and that of the PhD student in particular how the PhD student will benefit if the professor in question no longer has any involvement or even no responsibility for his PhD career. I'd like an answer from the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to undertake a commitment to this Chamber to undertake an evaluation of the change of law after a number of years, which will at least include an evaluation of compliance with this exercise, as well as the involvement of the professor responsible and the possible need for a right of assent? As has been said, this legislative proposal is aimed at promoting the internationalisation of higher education and research. But is the legislative proposal proportionate to this, is it sufficient? What does internationalisation of higher education actually mean today? My group has already asked in the written exchange of views on the proportionality of another legislative proposal, namely legislative proposal 34412 on the protection of names and degrees, how the increasing possibility for students to build their individual curriculum internationally modular or even per course or teacher through physical and digital mobility relates to the possibility and desirability for the Dutch authorities to monitor quality and effectiveness in accordance with the legislation, to the sustainability of the national funding system and to the protection of names and degrees. In the reply to that bill, the Government argues that the progressive internationalisation and digitisation do not affect the ability of the government to monitor the quality and efficiency of higher education and the sustainability of the national funding system. My group doubts that. Let's look at the practice. We are already seeing the development that a student can choose and enjoy education digitally and later using virtual or augmented reality per module, or even per course or per teacher, whether through institutions or not. For example, one teacher at the Amsterdam Conservatory already teaches digitally to a student in China, the two seated at two digitally connected pianos. That is a fantastic development, by the way. The same goes for a lecturer in New York, under the auspices of that conservatory. In a moment, this is the expectation at the conservatory, and that student in China knows how to find that lecturer in New York directly, outside the conservatory. In view of the developments with virtual and augmented reality, it appears that the quality of that meeting and the exchange of knowledge and skills will soon be less and less inferior to that of the physical meeting. Technological developments are moving towards the involvement of more and more senses in this virtual communication. If these developments continue, will the benefits of the virtual educational situation not gain more and more from those of the physical situation? Will it not determine us more than ever in the question where physical presence of teacher and student together in the same space and time is desirable and necessary? Because, according to many educational experts, this physical co-existence will continue to have an added value, although this obviously varies from sector to sector. But that demand also has a price and that price will continue to rise. Apparently, the benefits of today's still poor digital encounter often outweigh those of physical encounters. Think of the advantages of individualisation of curricula, global accessibility, low costs, the international classroom and, not least, development cooperation. How does the Minister see this? Let's say that the student in higher education is going to leave the vo and the p.o. It is still the most normal thing in the world to design his curriculum, based entirely on his own ambitions and talents, by putting together his own curriculum at individual institutions throughout the world, or by doing so directly with his selected teachers, outside institutions, as is already the case. Are we prepared for this with our system? Or maybe we don't want to? What are the terms 'institution', 'diploma', 'name' or 'grade', which are intended to protect our legislation? What is the role of a national government in terms of quality control, institution cost and the macro-efficiency issue? The government points out in reply to the questions put in writing by my group that, for example, when a student introduces foreign subjects into his or her training programme, that must be an institution's training course, it is up to the relevant examination committee to assess whether that can lead to an exemption from a profession. That's clear, too. But how sustainable are these concepts 'foreign', 'trade', 'training', 'exam committee', 'institution' and 'freedom' exactly in a digital, borderless and personalised environment? Even now, we are faced with the tension between internationalisation on the one hand and national funding and macro-efficiency on the other, and we are already slowing down the physical mobility of students before we know it, but also the freedom of movement of institutions. If digitalisation is the new internationalisation, if the teacher is the new institution, if the small personal online course (SPOC) is the new massive open online course (MOOC), if the virtual augmented reality classroom is the new international classroom, if the self-chosen route along teachers is the new curriculum and if the individually built portfolio is the new certificate, what does that mean for names and degrees, institutions, quality supervision, funding, diploma comparison, joint degrees, blended learning and efficiency? In his recent publication "Has the University achieved 2040?" This is an interesting title Bert van der Zwaan, rector of Utrecht University, calls the MOOC an intermediate station to a global teaching pool with debundling of curricula and new forms of education such as the SPOC. Already in the US, he signals a real and very rapid shift from the classic to the digital university because of the much greater possibilities and the much lower costs. The student "spoccelts" outside the context of an institution together his personal curriculum at his own pace and the final exam, the name and degree make way for an institution and learning path independent admission exam for a labour market, which is already the American doctor's exam. This does not concern itself anymore with the question of where and at what rate the student "spoken" his competences together; it tests them. Innovative tests are therefore becoming increasingly important. In doing so, the student must stick to a huge range of knowledge and educational material and the teacher of guru becomes a guide, at least Van der Zwaan argues. And indeed, technology is disruptive. Many retailers have long maintained that the customer has reasons to want to physically enter the store, but many did not find out and found out too late. If this were to be the way, are we sufficiently prepared with our legislation and regulations? What is the sustainability of our national, physical education system in a broader sense? So how do we ensure that this system does not become anachronistic for our young people, but remains maximum supportive and accessible? That we don't slow them down and get in their way? That we are not overtaken by countries that move faster in that highly competitive, global higher education space that is coming towards us or that is already there, including, according to some, the confused on talent? Are we still avoiding funding through learning rights, internationalisation of the macro-efficiency policy rule and putting this issue on the EU agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u13	I am listening to Mr Bruijn's speech with breath. There alone is an important part of the answer. Of course, the offer is increasing, as it also dramatically increased when printing was introduced, but I would like to see this as an enrichment and not as a threat. It is precisely because Mr Bruijn himself acknowledges that the face-to-face contact between student and teacher remains of unabated significance that I can honestly see no reason why the classical university should not be able to adapt very well to the developments he has outlined and why it would not want to participate. After all, any threat outlined by Mr Bruijn is also an opportunity for the Dutch institutions to become active as international providers themselves. So I am very curious if he himself is as concerned as he sounds and what his own answers would be to at least a few of his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u14	That's unhealthy!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u15	The argument is extremely broad and complex. Mr Bruijn asks a lot of questions. I am now very interested in at least a few of his own answers, because it is not so difficult to ask these questions and at the same time to question their urgency and topicality. I do not want to combat technological developments, but the university as an institution has been able to stand for a thousand years in an environment in which technology is constantly evolving. For example, it has survived very well the development of printing, a similar disruptive burglary of some hundreds of years ago. Frankly, I had the impression that some of his questions were answered by Mr Bruijn himself, for example, when he acknowledged that a university or faculty always has the opportunity and should want to keep the intended contribution of a student from a curriculum elsewhere to be able to test and assess his replacement suitability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u16	I propose that I conclude my speech first, because some of the answers to Mr Rinnooy Kan's questions are in the course of my speech. Then we can see if his questions have been answered in his own way. If not, I'd like to go into that in more detail. I shall also refer to my group's view on this, because that is what Mr Rinnooy Kan is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u17	It's compact, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u18	Yes, Chairman, always. How do we ensure that we continue to offer our students in the digital learning environment the embedding, personal contact and extracurricular community and microcosm that are so essential in their bildung and their socio-cultural education, which is now called "campus" or "student association" for example? My party held a meeting in this Chamber last week with the National Chamber of Associations, the umbrella body of the student associations. The members of these associations apparently do not yet have much enthusiasm for the issue of internationalisation, according to research that was presented there. In the Netherlands 16% of students come from abroad. In some universities, this percentage is up to 50%, and that percentage is increasing. Yet 75% of Dutch students would not see it as positive if that foreign student also joined the student association more often and finds the same 75% percentage that should not change the language there. Let alone think about how to deal with the digital international visitor. Could it be, in part, that I now come to the answer to questions from Mr Rinnooy Can the educational institution in that new world be given new and important roles, such as those of a physical basis from which the student can enter the digital environment, that of guide through that digital jungle of offerings and perhaps that of learning independent examination authority? Do we not see the omens of this now that students seem to be staying more and more on campus and in libraries, and now learning independent tests are emerging? How do we ensure that the physical proximity of the teacher remains possible, where it is necessary? And what does this mean for the other education sectors? If the outlined development or something like that would be the dot on the horizon, how do we get from A to B? How does the Minister see this? I now come to the opinion of my group on this. My group believes that the development outlined at least requires our explicit attention. There are clearly great opportunities and benefits to be achieved, but different scenarios are conceivable. In some of them physical and digital mobility in the h.o. It does have an impact on quality control, efficiency and accessibility, where no students lag behind or fall between shore and ship, and also on the sustainability of the funding system, the protection of names and degrees, the quality of curricula in terms of socio-cultural development and bildung and the place of the teacher of meat and blood. Isn't all this asking for a broader consideration and would it not be an idea to devote an integral study on these scenarios and their consequences, including the above-mentioned aspects? It could therefore look at how other countries deal with this. I'd like a commitment. Such a study could serve as a basis for more proactive and comprehensive policies, so that we are not again attacked by universities wishing to start branches abroad that do not fit in with the legislation, a macro-efficiency policy that now inhibits international mobility or an unexpected budget gap due to incoming student mobility. The necessary thinking about the future does not, of course, stand in the way of my group's basic alignment with this proposal. However, this bill, like the one on names and degrees, could be described as an intermediate step in the right direction, as a springboard for the next phase, with which we should begin. How should we deal with the rapid developments around us? Quite apart from the exact pace and direction, my group considers it relevant, especially in the context of this legislative proposal, to conduct this discussion and to carry out further research, even if it were to be concluded that it is not all that bad and that it is not going that fast. If it is not easy, we cannot afford to wait. If we do not commit ourselves to predictions, then we certainly do not have enough offspring. My group looks forward to the answer and to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u19	I would like to respond, as Mr Bruijn addressed me so emphatically. I've listened very carefully. In all honesty, I have not heard much more than Mr Bruijn's group considers these questions to be important, relevant and urgent and, in fact, recommends that we give them a good, calm and broader thought. I'm fine with that. So I do not really hear many answers in that, but rather an understatement of the importance of the questions. I can agree with that and I would look forward to such an investigation, but I remain intrigued by the views that live in the VVD. I hope to find out again in the light of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u20	Shall I respond briefly, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u21	It wasn't a question, but you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u22	I understand Mr Rinnooy Kan's question. I note that there are workers in the field who are not the first to outline the best scenarios. They see that there are already students who "spoccelen" their own curriculum outside the institutions. My group's question is whether our system is prepared for this. That is my group's question. Can our system ensure that the quality of education that these students enjoy and thus differ from one student to another is secured in one way or another? And can our education system or we as legislators guarantee that access to that education offer will remain equal for all and that funding as we have it will not slow down accessibility? This raises a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u23	I believe that at least Mr Bruijn's first question has been answered by himself: an examination committee retains the absolute right and the power to weigh each part of the curriculum according to quality and whether or not to accept it. This seems to me to be the first concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u24	Then Mr Rinnooy Kan starts from the premise of the existence of an institution, but then I say again: read Mr Van der Zwaan's book: there are already students who "spoccelen" themselves and who do this completely outside the context of an institution. There are not few of them and their numbers are increasing. That is where my concerns lie about bildung, socio-cultural embedding, quality control and so on. They then go to a central exam or an employer with their stack of diplomas or certificates from those teachers. They say to that employer: here I am; this I have done; will accept me. Those students are okay with that, the teachers are fine with it and the employer is okay with it. The question is whether we, as a society, consider this to be a desirable development, as this will in any case potentially avoid the possibility of monitoring accessibility, monitoring quality and monitoring the breadth of the curriculum. Maybe we don't think that supervision is important. That is possible, but it is a fact that this development is already taking place, increasingly outside the context of these institutions and therefore also of the examination committee mentioned by Mr Rinnooy Kan. My group believes that this point should at least be looked at, because if this development is as rapid as other recent ICT developments, it could be very disruptive, perhaps to the detriment of certain student populations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. "Travelers are us in this world, not residents." That quote by Desiderius Erasmus is on a façade in Gouda, his suspected hometown. Once he arrived in Rotterdam, Erasmus added his actions to his words and was on his way for much of his life. The community he was a part of was an international community long before there were official national borders. Students and scholars travelled across Europe long before it was subsidised from Brussels or anywhere else. In the meantime, we take it for granted that the Dutch government actively promotes the internationalisation of universities and colleges of applied sciences, and the present legislative proposal deals more with the way in which than the reason why. However, in this apparently technical discussion we still occasionally encounter fundamental questions. On behalf of my group, I am pleased to make a contribution to this. I'll start with the students. The first chance of internationalisation is often offered to them within the Erasmus programme, so appropriately named, which enables large numbers of young Europeans to get to know each other and each other's environments as part of their studies. It is a successful initiative. A few years ago, in 2014, the millionth Erasmus baby seems to have already been born. I will spare you the clarification, Mr President, and mention the Erasmus programme here just to ask the Minister what opportunities she sees for further increasing its reach. To my surprise, this is far from 100% in the Netherlands, but rather half of it. It would also be a good thing for me to be able to offer a comparable international opportunity to all young Europeans outside higher education. Erasmus would have borrowed its name with joy and would not object to any grant from Brussels. Does the Minister see any possibility of making a serious attempt to do so in the coming years? At the heart of the present legislative proposal is the possibility for students not so much as visitors to a foreign institution as participants in a joint study programme. My group supports this formula, recognizes the need to lay down detailed rules for it and appreciates the Minister's commitment in this matter. But the discussion on this issue is very, perhaps too much coloured by the intention of the University of Groningen to establish such cooperation with a new branch in Yantai, in the People's Republic of China. Such international establishments are not unusual and potentially offer interesting opportunities to students and scholars from both countries involved, in exchanges of knowledge and of the underlying norms and values. It goes without saying that the associated business risks to the investing institution must be properly covered and that their national core tasks should not be affected. In the present case, however, the intangible risk that Groningen's activities in China could be threatened was also shown by the fact that academic freedoms that speak for themselves in Groningen could be put under severe pressure from time to time. The concern about that is not without reason. Recently, Australian Monash University, also active in China, reacted very mildly to the pressure exerted by the local Chinese authorities on a critical Chinese student. Within the joint venture model imposed in Yantai, the authorities are given an opening. Moreover, the practice of freedom of expression in China also wants to escape the theory. We would be doing students and scholars on both sides a disservice if we were not particularly alert on this fundamental point. I do not doubt the good will of the Groningen university community and await with confidence the decision-making process there. If so, can it say anything about the method to be followed? Where appropriate, this can provide a welcome backup for local Groningen drivers. In any case, I would like to assume that the Minister would like to regularly inform this Chamber of progress in China. We can all be wiser if the distant descendants of Erasmus move their destinations to Asia and Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u26	Mr Rinnooy Kan flies this through the special case of Groningen and China. I understand that, but he started with the idea that the ancillary establishments have an added value in the context of exchange and so on. My question is what is the added value of a subsidiary over, for example, a joint program, in which you have much more interaction and thus much more exchange, than when you position an independent subsidiary there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u27	I do not see such fundamental differences. It will often be a matter of opportunity. All I see is that there are now many international universities experimenting with their own establishment. In any case, that enables them to put a very strong stamp on what is being offered there. It also enables them to get to know what the country has to offer talent and to offer their own students a chance. So I do not see that as a very basic difference but as an interesting variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u28	But precisely in Mr Rinnooy Kan's reply it sounds as if you can keep more individuality with a subsidiary and therefore have less exchange than with a joint programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u29	The exchange can also be based on and as a starting point have its own traditions, its own history and its own expertises. That doesn't mean that at the same time you couldn't be open to what local students can tell you about their history and their approach to the discussions that are being held there. So I see it, again, really not as a different matter of principle, but as two variants that can co-exist very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u30	I have a short, factual question for a supplement. Mr Rinnooy Kan referred to the role of the on-the-spot inspection. Now in higher education it is not so much the inspection as the NVAO that monitors the quality, with visits, accreditations and so on. Can I interpret Mr Rinnooy's question in such a way that he also involves the NVAO, so that the Minister can take that into account in her reply? I'd be curious to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u31	That does not seem to me to be wrong at least, but it does not touch what I am trying to promote through this question. This is because if there is still a risk that traditional academic freedoms might be at stake in China and perhaps elsewhere, it is likely that it will not be so easy to register in practice. In many cases, it will completely evade the observation of the directors there. Then I find it reassuring that the educational inspection, which can observe the practice of education through accreditation, can also keep an eye on it. I am not saying this because I doubt the good intentions of the Dutch teachers and the local Dutch directors. I say it precisely to support them in their opposition to possible violations of academic freedoms if they wish to raise them with their Chinese counterparts. Then the authority of the Dutch education inspection, with behind it the Dutch government, can help them in what might become a very difficult, if not annoying, discussion in practice. After the students, I now turn to the scholars, because they too benefit from internationalisation and want to take full advantage of it, just like their institutions. Besides many other facilities, the Dutch institutes abroad also play a useful role in this. Can the Minister reassure my group about the continuity of their funding? We sometimes hear such sounds about that. But in general we can be satisfied with the situation in this country. The Netherlands, as the Rathenau Institute recently confirmed, can boast of a very healthy in- and outflow of scientific talent, although the Netherlands could and should do more to promote that talent to eventually become a resident of the country where the basis for its travels was laid. Does the Minister see any untapped opportunities there? I share the importance of this initiative. The Netherlands must be and remain an irresistible destination for research talent. This is one of the reasons for the extension of the ius PhD students advocated in this legislative proposal; earlier speakers have already mentioned it. On further consideration, the current Dutch interpretation according to international standards is indeed very reluctant: the experienced, closely involved, but untrained PhD supervisor can at present only be offered a co-promotorship. This discourages, and does not do justice to their contribution in national and international imaging. My group therefore supports the Minister's proposal to extend the promotion of qualified university professors and, thanks to the appreciated intervention of the VSNU, has now also seen how universities are unanimous in their intention to deal with this area in a procedural manner. In this respect, our original fear was that, given the importance we attach to consistency of legislation, the future appointment of a promoter in a particular field could take place entirely outside the involvement of the professor responsible for that field under Article 9.19 of the WHW. Now that the universities have undertaken to explicitly involve their opinion in the decision-making process within the promotional college, our concern has actually disappeared. In this sense, we have a little more confidence in the implementation of these good intentions by the universities and faculties than the previous speaker. The expansion of the ius PhD students aimed in particular to enable also visiting scholars from abroad to be given the opportunity to act as a promoter in the Netherlands. Could the formal limitation of promotional rights to university staff constitute an obstacle to this? Or, where appropriate, can a Nulaanstelling be sufficient? Then, for example, qualified university lecturers can benefit from this, pending a more fundamental discussion on the further profiling of research to the colleges and the possible associated possibilities of doctoral differentiation. By the way, foreign promoters will attach to a correct title. In this connection, would the Minister, with thanks to my colleague, Paul Schnabel, please make sure that the title 'Doctor of Philopsophy', now referred to in Article 1,19b, is removed from his entirely surplus middle P? Finally, the proposal before us calls for an amendment of Article 7.50. With the best will in the world, I cannot see any relationship with any form of internationalisation. This concerns the exclusion of a student's own contribution to the selection costs for his or her education. The main argument for this is the negative side effects of the Minister's own contribution to the free, financially uninhibited choice of study. The Minister's ancillary argument that selection is part of education, and must therefore be financed from tuition fees, does not convince me very much. Can the Minister explain again what this fear of such a negative influx is actually based on, especially in the knowledge that the colleges have already come up with compensatory arrangements to avoid economically weaker students? As little evidence as there seems to be to support that fear, there is so much evidence for the recent growth in the number of applications and the number of no-shows. In the case of colleges, this is likely to result in substantial costs, so much so that some of them have brought legal proceedings against the State. Will the Minister at least wait until the judge has given his ruling on this subject when this revised article is put into effect? Internationalisation is a characteristic of the academic community. We should be proud of the growing international visibility of our own students and scholars, and of the growing interest of their international colleagues in visiting our country. Travellers are all, as Erasmus was before, unabated by curiosity and unabatedly grateful for a welcoming welcome by the residents. Let us continue to give them generously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u32	Mr Rinnooy Kan has ridden from the scientist who is now a copromotor and would like to be a promoter. I have expressed my sympathy for that. However, I would like to make a few comments from the PhD candidate. The lack of right of consent for the professor in question therefore leaves open the possibility for a situation in which the professor advises not to appoint the uhd in question from his group as a promoter. It may then be possible to appoint that uhd promoter. Then the PhD student is in a department where the uhd is the supervisor, the professor concerned had protested against it and it is not clear what the professor's involvement is still. So it can be very variable. Is that professor according to Mr Rinnooy Can or cannot hold accountable if he or she does not have the right to consent? Is this ambiguity and uncertainty in the interest of the PhD candidate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u33	I had realised the tension to which Mr Bruijn referred in his own story, but I must honestly say that it seems highly unlikely to me to avoid the situation he has outlined. This would mean that the dean has turned to the professor in charge and that he explicitly opposes the appointment of this promoter, and that the promotional college would nevertheless do so. Then there is something real going on within that field and something really wrong with the position of the professor responsible. So I can't imagine this ever happening. And when it happens, there will be reasons for it, which stab deeper than the one incident alone. Then, of course, the faculty, the dean and the promotional college will ensure that the importance of the PhD candidate is not at stake in the future. I cannot imagine, however, that such a thing would happen and that it would then remain the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u34	If it never happens, you could also be in favour of consent. Then we'll know for sure it won't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u35	I would have no objection to that at all, but the design here seems sufficient and sufficient in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u36	I have a question about Article 7.50, which has been included in this bill. Is Mr Rinnooy able to add an additional threshold to the tuition fee by making people pay for a selection test?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u37	I began by saying that the current situation, in which this is indeed the case, poses a theoretical risk to accessibility. That is precisely why the colleges have made their own provision to ensure that students with a socio-economic weak background are financially helped to meet these costs. If that is the case, it seems to me to be a sufficient guarantee in practice to avoid the dreaded effect. If there is evidence from that same practice to suggest that this further intervention is necessary, I would like to know. If that is not the case, I honestly do not see the argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u38	I wonder why Mr Rinnooy Kan calls it a theoretical risk if it has not been investigated. So he actually expects people who go for a selection to make themselves known in advance as poor and with that they go to a college or university. The government's position is that equal access means that no one should have that threshold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u39	In any case, this is the current practice. When I look at the opposite, namely the idea that the selection costs should be fully combated from the tuition fees, I find that equally curious. I find it difficult to maintain that a mechanism that tries to assess whether a person is fit for education should be included in the same education, the question being whether he or she can follow it. I think that's an equally unfortunate construction. Hence my question to the Minister to back up what this change is useful and necessary for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u40	To correct this, it is not paid from tuition fees, but from the resources given to universities and colleges of higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u41	But at least they're meant for education, not for selection to that education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u42	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by saying that members of this cabinet are increasingly bringing together various issues in one legislative amendment. This bundling will make it difficult for us to make a careful assessment. This is also the case with this proposal, which, on the one hand, amends the legislation on the PhD candidate and, on the other, makes a proposal to allow universities to move their fields of work abroad. In this way, political discussions are often interwoven with necessary legislative changes. My group is concerned about this trend. If this minister had not been a missionary, I would have urged her to be cautious about this in the future. It makes it difficult for us as a Chamber to make a careful assessment of such a bill. For example, we agree with the proposals on promotional rights, but we have great difficulty with the proposal for internationalisation. My group wishes to deal with this more wisely in the future. May this also be a message for the upcoming cabinet. As I have said, I would like to comment on the part of the law governing internationalisation. Recently we received the message that the Netherlands has more than any other country a high average number of foreign students. Almost 2 out of every 100 students come from abroad. The reasons for this are teaching in the foreign language, cheap education and good quality. Let us mark the latter, because that is something to be satisfied with. However, we do not only have many foreign students. Dutch scientists are also among the most mobile in the world. 33% of the scientists at Dutch universities come from abroad. Despite these figures, the Minister feels that this law is urgently needed. She mentions three reasons for this: "This potential added value is seen by the government in strengthening international networks, positioning Dutch higher education abroad and facilitating the exchange of students and teachers." The first argument is very gratuitous; as if the only way to strengthen international networks is by starting a university in another country, and we have a huge amount of exchange between scientists. These international networks therefore seem to me to be perfectly in order, and this is confirmed by the research carried out by the Rathenau Institute. With regard to the third argument, we can rest assured that this is not a problem at the moment and that this legislative proposal is therefore superfluous. I would like to take a look at the second argument: improving the position of education abroad. If we look at the investigations that have been done, we can see that that position is already very strong at the moment. We actually have an excellent exchange of scientists and students, so there is no problem in this area and again no need for this bill. The Netherlands also appears to be a trading nation in the field of education. The international component of education does not seem to be under any pressure. What is under pressure is the flow of students from our own country. With the shrinkage of the population, the number of Dutch students is also falling and thus the revenues of the universities. Students from countries outside the European Union are making money, and that is cash register. However, the countries from which these students come do not stand still either. Slowly, the quality of education in the countries from which these students come improves. As a result, the market will shift to its own country, as is the case with China, a country that is hard on the road in the field of education and increasingly attracts or manages to keep scientists in. If this happens, the Dutch universities lose this target group and therefore also a nice source of income. The position that needs to be strengthened must therefore be that of the universities and not so much the interests of the student or of the science as a whole. I have to note that the Minister sees a change in the commercial playing field of international education and then sets out a strategy to strengthen that commercial branch of education. I think the Minister is asking the wrong question. It is inevitable that education in a country such as China will be strengthened and that many other countries will do the same. The Minister should rather ask what this means for academic education in the Netherlands. She could ask herself, for example, whether the use of English-language masters is now almost 100% wise, when fewer foreign students come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u43	I am listening with interest to your speech and I understand the ingredients of the analysis, although I might make the considerations myself something else. My question is this. Would you like to test what you have just said against the doctrine of university autonomy? In other words, why should the universities not themselves carry out the analysis you are making here, and draw their own plan within the limits of what is permitted, including the scope for initiatives abroad, in which the advantages and disadvantages are faced against each other, invigorating and weighing, and that is concluded in the participation regime that we discussed recently in this Chamber? This gives students and staff at the same university every opportunity to respond to the advantages and disadvantages of this particular proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u44	That's a route you could follow. It depends on your political background which space you want to give. The fact is that there is a legislative change that is needed to give universities that autonomy and that space in full. On the basis of her philosophy, my group is in favour of looking at the impact and possible consequences of this autonomy. I'll go into it a little bit more. You can follow the reasoning that the universities or the students in the participation themselves have to make that assessment, but I choose to take some responsibility for it in politics and to say that this is not a good development.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u45	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u46	If the Minister wants to keep education in the Netherlands attractive, is it not better to look at how that education remains attractive? There is still little money for research in our country. That's an internationally missed opportunity. The creation of an annex can also lead to the disappearance of talent from the Netherlands and the deterioration of the quality of Dutch education. I believe that we in the Chamber should weigh that responsibility, and I also say to Mr Rinnooy Kan. This proposal would then achieve the opposite of what it is intended to achieve. My question is whether the Minister fears that. If not, why not? You can already hear it: the SP is not enthusiastic about the proposal to give Dutch educational institutions the opportunity to start an annex in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u47	I wonder at what point there is a difference between the approach of the SP and that of VVD and D66, because I do not hear that, frankly. In both cases, the argument seems to be that it is good for the economic position of our education. One says: yes, that helps, this gives us big markets. The other says: no, that doesn't help; we have to protect a little protectionist our own education. Is there really a difference in the underlying argument based on market thinking between the SP on the one hand and VVD and D66 on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u48	You take the premise that the concern for the commercial sector is the reason why we are reacting in this way, but even more so, I would like to call it into question. Is the commercial development of the university something we should wish for? That has nothing to do with protectionism. If the answer is that we want it, then the question is whether it has been done properly in this way. I would like to ask the question, because I do not think this should be in the universities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u49	Mrs Gerkens does say that she wants to question that commercial branch, as I heard, but if the question is whether we are protecting or broadening the education market, that is both market approaches.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u50	No, in fact, in my text, broadening the market is not the solution, but you should look at more money for research. If you don't bring in foreign students anymore, what happens to the education here? Then you can do two things. You can say: we don't bring them in anymore and so we have to go to those countries to get them there. Or you could say that the market is changing and you wonder what that means for the quality of our education. How should we respond to this in order to guarantee quality in our own country? I am also concerned about this in my speech. I think that Mr Ganzevoort is referring to a point that I shall be referring to, namely the question of the conditions under which you can do such a thing, if you wish to do so. I just got there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u51	The VVD words are being put in the mouth, which I have to contradict, if the commercial element in internationalisation were the most important, or an important element at all. I've never heard that proclaimed by my party. My party is saying that internationalisation of education, when it comes to mobility, content and languages, is extremely important in view of the internationalisation of the society that students are about to enter. If Mrs Gerkens objects to this alleged commercialisation, my question is: if we were to limit foreign students and their payment, so would we limit the amount paid by a foreign student to the tuition fees that are paid here too, would this remove the objection to internationalisation for Mrs Gerkens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u52	Mr Bruijn now puts words in my mouth which I have not used, but which have been spoken by Mr Ganzevoort, so perhaps he should place this interruption with him. I did not say that there should be no such income, but I found that students from outside the EU are making money for universities and that money will disappear if they disappear. Apparently they want to solve this problem by going after these students and getting that money in there. That is the only observation I have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u53	As a result, I ask the question: if we were to eliminate that effect by limiting the payment of students from outside the EU to the amount of tuition that EU students also pay, would Mrs Gerkens' objection to internationalisation and maximum student mobility be removed? This is promoted, among other things, by the current legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u54	This really is a hypothetical question, which doesn't make any sense, if I may put it that way. It is an exchange with European students. We do not pay for students within Europe. Then you should also say that, so to speak, you could also go to China without this costing money. Mr Bruijn proposes a change to the system which is totally different from what we are discussing here today. I like to philosophize about it again, but I think we should spend our time on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u55	Finally, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u56	Then I can only conclude that Mrs Gerkens initially raised the commercial element as the main objection to this bill, but that she would not agree to the bill if that commercial element were removed. The question is whether that is very straightforward, but at least it is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u57	Mr Bruijn would like to turn the argument to his side more often. I am against the commercial aspect of the disappearance of students at home and abroad. One can say: we have fewer children in the Netherlands, so less students and so less students. I'm just saying it in the words of the VVD market. We can then find that market in another country out of expansion. I'm not in favour of that. Mr Bruijn does all the tricks, but he also says I don't want to. That's right: I don't want education to be a market. It's very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u58	I have one question to clarify. Is it true that Mrs Gerkens grants the label 'commercial' to any activity which takes place within the objectives of a university and without public funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u59	No, I don't think so, because a lot of activities don't get government subsidies. I refer to Mr Ganzevoort's question. We already have joint venture programs. This already achieves a great deal for the quality of education through internationalisation. Why, then, should we give room for a risky enterprise, with a lot of comments? In my opinion, there can be no ideology other than: we are losing students, and therefore the finances around them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u60	Can Mrs Gerkens say again when, under the circumstances I refer to, i.e. without state aid, she wishes to call an activity commercial?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u61	If it does not serve the purpose of strengthening education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u62	Is that up to the university to decide, or are we gonna come up with that in this room?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u63	One of the reasons why we're breaking up with this Chamber is that there's a bill that needs to be discussed. This company also has risks to the quality of Dutch education. We do not have a brain drain now, but we could get it by developing these activities. That lies within the responsibility of Dutch politics. You don't think so. That's your right. That is why we have a debate here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u64	Please continue, Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u65	As I said, the Group of the Party of European Socialists is not enthusiastic about the proposal to give the Dutch schools the opportunity to start an annex in other countries. If something like this were to be desired, my group would have hoped that the values of our education and of what we teach would be taken into account. Dutch education stands for equal human rights, freedom of expression and equal opportunities. In the eyes of the SP, it makes a big difference whether to set up educational institutions in countries such as China, Iran and the Philippines, or in countries such as Germany and Spain. If we were to allow such a thing, it would have to be done under the framework conditions that are based on the values and standards that we uphold in scientific education. I do not see these demands in the proposal. Why didn't the Minister make these terms? And does she agree with me that this is an omission in the proposal? The Minister may object that these institutions, without a cooperation partner, are entirely concerned with their own curriculum. But that does not say anything about the legal constraints that there may be in such a country, because, for example, women do not have the right to education. Does the Minister consider it conceivable that in a country where women do not have a right to education, an annex should be set up? If so, what is it based on? I think the Minister will point out that the University of Groningen has ensured that the Internet is completely free on the Chinese university site. That's, you'd say, profit. The question is whether this is really a profit. On campus, Chinese laws apply. The knowledge freely acquired cannot be used in their own country. This leads to the question of the longer-term consequences of a knowledge enclave. Can the Minister at least indicate how she is going to ensure that these dependances are taught in accordance with Dutch standards? I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u66	I have a final question. The practice mentioned by Mrs Gerkens is not a renewal but an extension of a long-standing practice. For example, one of the Dutch colleges of applied sciences, the Stenden Hogeschool, currently has activities in four countries, including South Africa, which do not differ in character from what is regulated in full width in the bill. Should I understand Mrs Gerkens in such a way that she thinks afterwards that these activities should not take place and should perhaps be reversed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u67	I don't know the activities you're talking about. But if you ask whether the SP is against international cooperation programmes, the answer is: no, we are not. An annex is certainly something different from the cooperation and joint venture programmes that are already in place. We believe that the legislative proposal goes a step further than the possibilities that exist today. Internationalisation is a fact. Society is international, so you have to ensure that internationality in education is also secured. We therefore have no objections to joint ventures and cooperation programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u68	I would like to say that the current practice of this college, and perhaps also of other institutions, exactly replicates what is made possible in broad terms by the legislative proposal. That's why I'm afraid if it were a successful fight, it'd be a rearguard fight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u69	I am well aware that we are one of the few groups that say that it is not a good development. We've had that before. Sometimes it takes us ten years to get that right. I do have those ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u70	In the written reply, the Government states that it will set a number of conditions for universities and programmes before approving them. Is Mrs Gerkens not confident that the criteria that are important to ensure that this is done properly in other countries could be given a place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u71	No, because otherwise, I wouldn't have asked the minister how she'd make it better. I understand and assume that this minister has an eye for it. But having an eye for something is something other than bailing out. I wonder if that will be enough, but I'd be happy to let the Minister convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u72	How do you look at the criteria given by the government in the written replies, which concern, for example, rights, duties and freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u73	That's fine, of course. But again, I want to hear from the Minister how she's gonna bail it out. With this bill, the universities will be given an opportunity. Questions have been asked about participation in this process, and I hope that it is well organized. I want to make sure that the things the minister mentions are secured. A university should not be able to come to other considerations in its own autonomy. I would find that very damaging. I'd like to know what's going on with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u74	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I give the floor to Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u75	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a good starting position to be a global player in science now and in the future. In other countries there is often a large difference in the quality of higher education and scientific research. The quality of Dutch universities, colleges and educational institutions is generally described as high quality. Part of the world's top is an achievement of magnitude, of all passionate researchers, driven teachers and all other people involved. Maintaining a position at world top level is not self-evident. With the bill we are discussing today, the cabinet wants to implement framework conditions to strengthen the international position. This will facilitate international cooperation between educational institutions. A wider grant policy will make it more attractive for students to attend education abroad. Other than professors will be given the opportunity to accompany promotions. Before I go into these elements of the bill, I will briefly consider two other parts of the bill that we are discussing today. My group wholeheartedly supports the proposed amendment to Article 7.3g of the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act (WHW) in order to clarify the validity of examinations under special circumstances. We also support the clarification made by the government with regard to Article 7.50 of the WHW. The PvdA Group attaches importance to equal access to higher education for all young people, especially as regards the selection for the start of training. Given that students are not allowed to make their own contribution outside tuition fees, my group still has a question. Increasingly, in higher education, digital teaching methods, such as management games, are being used with the associated modules for students to test the learned. Both students and teachers are enthusiastic about these types of teaching methods. Its purchase, including licences for use, shall be borne by the educational establishment. As a result, a number of educational institutions refrain from using digital teaching methods because of these costs. The PvdA Group wonders what solution the Minister sees in order to prevent this, without the bill being placed on the students. The government refers in the written response at different places to the Science Vision 2025. In this vision, the government sets out what needs to be done to achieve and further develop top research and top education with top staff. From this vision, the National Science Agenda was drawn up in 2015, with the input of everyone who wanted to do so. This includes themes that are socially relevant. My group wholeheartedly supports the approach and accents adopted, but what contribution can the public authorities expect to make to fund this science agenda? A significant part of the research money in the Netherlands now comes from the third money stream. Does the legislative proposal we are debating today help to further strengthen international recruitment capacity? And if so, how? My group would like to ask a few more questions about extending the ius PhD candidate to non-professors. We thank the government for the comprehensive answers to questions from this Chamber on this point. Many of my group's questions have therefore already been answered. There are a number of others that we would like to present to the Minister. In order to be able to do world-class scientific education and research, it is important that we invest in an attractive locational environment for top scientists and that there are good career prospects for foreign and Dutch researchers. With the present legislative proposal, the government has worked out one of the ways to implement it. Framework conditions are created for a promoted staff member to be appointed promoter by the Board of Promotions. The government considers it the responsibility of the universities to determine who is competent to act as a promoter. The PvdA fraction supports this line. It is in line with common views on the scope of academic freedom. In the context of a clear division of responsibility, it is good that the government has confirmed in its written response that the position of incumbent professors remains unchanged. Article 9.19 has not changed. In the government's view, the promotional rules are of crucial importance in order to regulate matters properly in a procedural manner. The PvdA Group has therefore noted with interest, with other political groups, the hand-out that VSNU has prepared for the lectures on promotions. My group welcomes the addition of 22 May. is guaranteed that the professor whose field of expertise is concerned can give advice on the appointment of a non-promoter. My group, like Mr Bruijn, has the impression that this is a non-binding opinion. She wonders what the consequences will be for the professor's responsibility under Article 9.19 if such advice is not followed. What is the Minister's assessment of this? The government had initially opted for a very broad approach to the broadening of promotional rights. At the initiative of the House of Representatives, this space is limited to promoted employees. The VSNU uses only senior university professors in its handiwork. This limitation does raise a question for my group. How does the Minister view the chosen containment in the light of her ambition to broaden the international career opportunities of talented scientists? Isn't this a drop in the ocean when it comes to improving the career perspective for talented staff in higher education? In other words, do university teachers not deserve an international career perspective? I'd like a response from the Minister. In the written reply, the Minister states that she does not wish to participate in the staff policy of higher education and scientific institutions. However, my group believes that the way in which the government organises and finances higher education and scientific research does indeed have a significant impact on the career prospects of talented staff and thus on the personnel policies of, among other things, universities. The targeted policy that the Minister has used, for example, to get more female professors appointed, an ambition which my group wholeheartedly supports, is an example of this. The same applies to the broadening of promotional rights in the bill we are discussing today. My group would like to hear from the Minister how the granting of promotional rights to non-graduate teachers relates to the principle of formation as applied to many universities. The question is whether we do not need a fundamental rethink of our scientific system and higher education. Mr Bruijn also mentioned this. In several other countries, and in the meantime also at the Dutch technical universities and the University of Groningen, an approach is being developed whereby the individual research career is the starting point. Within the so-called tenure track it is common that promotion law is part of career agreements with researchers. Experience from other European countries shows that opting for this approach can also have negative sides, for example because career agreements stand in the way of competitive recruitment of suitable candidates for top positions and there is a chance that researchers who introduce a lot of research funds will have more opportunities than other employees with excellent scientific qualities. What approach, including the principle of formation versus the principle of career, does the Minister think best contribute to providing a successful future for talented employees and top-level science? Following on from this: in the European Commission's communication of 30 May last. it states that it is high time for a new EU agenda for higher education, inter alia because the funding, encouragement and remuneration mechanisms in higher education are not always such as to reward good education and research, innovation, social inclusion and engagement. We are curious how the Minister looks at these recommendations and what they will mean for the Netherlands. My group has another question about the conditions under which Dutch educational institutions can start training abroad. Of course, we support the line that public funds should not leak abroad. The question is, however, how is this to be established or what is it to be done? Calculated? What standards are used? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. It is also clear from the number of foreign students attending education in our country that education is a good thing internationally. That's still growing. They're about 112,000 students with 164 different nationalities according to Nuffic. In the Netherlands, more students of foreign origin study than in other countries, on average 2 in every 100 students. According to Nuffic, this is because of the quality of education, the large number of English-language courses and because education is relatively affordable. The cost of studies is in many cases higher than the own contributions paid by foreign students. Does the argument that public funds should not flow abroad also apply in this case? And how does the Minister intend to deal with this in the light of international agreements? As far as student exchanges are concerned, I have two other questions. The capacity of a number of university studies is limited. Can numerus-fixus training not lead to displacement between Dutch and foreign students? If so, how does the Minister intend, given European regulations, to ensure that Dutch students can develop their talents sufficiently? My group expects that Brexit will affect the position of EU students in the UK, the position of UK students in Europe and cooperation at scientific level. How can the Netherlands prepare itself for this and what role does the Minister see for the government in this? More and more master's programmes are given in English. This is good in the context of internationalisation, but it also has a downside. These are also subject areas in which students will work after their studies in Dutch companies with Dutch as language. My group is concerned about two effects of this development. We wonder if a number of students, who are strong in content but do not have language skills, are, if not, seriously prevented from attending a master's degree programme that fits their content. In addition, we wonder whether students who have studied in English will not find that their language skills in Dutch are not sufficiently in line with what is needed in professional practice. We are curious to see how the Minister views this. In the written reply, the Government states that it does not intend to monitor the impact of the present legislative proposal. That surprises my group very much. A government that creates framework conditions for top-level higher education and Dutch science should want to know whether the measures taken are effective and contribute to the goal set: top-level science at world level. Is the government not interested in whether, for example, the widening of the circle of promoters actually contributes to the international position of talented scientists and in the meaning of this extension for the quality and coherence of scientific research? This is how the PvdA Group wonders. This brings my group to a final broader question to the Minister: how far does the internationalisation ambition of the Netherlands extend? What are the essential criteria for success and how are the ambitions to be met? I would like a response from the Minister on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u76	I listened with approval and pleasure to the speech. I have a question about the financial wishes of the Labour Party. I hear Mrs Nooren arguing for additional investment in research. Then I wonder: how much money is involved? In the election programme of the Labour Party, I see an increase in the collective burden of 22.2 billion. This is at the expense of employment. Of these, 2.6 billion is for education; mostly teachers' salaries. How much money is involved in these investments and are they at the expense of teacher salaries or at the expense of more jobs? Or does this mean a higher budget deficit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u77	That's a question I can't answer right now. A comprehensive package will always have to consider what is needed. It's always a matter of making choices. If you have an internationalization ambition, you can't do it without an investment in research. If you look at the OECD figures, you can see that the use of public funds even decreased between 2014 and 2016. This applies not only to the Netherlands, but to the average of a number of well developed countries. An internationalisation agenda without the financial impetus of the government requires other sources. My question to the Minister is: does not ambition include an account? It's always a matter of priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u78	That's why I asked that question. My second question concerns the English-language masters. What exactly is the fear of the Labour Party in that respect? If students learn Dutch until the age of 21 and then take a master's degree for two or one year and study English during the day, would that be so bad for their Dutch that they wouldn't be able to enter the labour market, or would the studies prove that every subsequent language contributes to your abundance and improves the first language?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u79	My group is concerned with the following. If English is the main language in a master's degree, you can see in daily practice that people in a Dutch company sometimes don't even know Dutch terms for certain things. The average level of education in the Netherlands is MBO or lower. The question is whether they can make the translation that is already being made in the language. Moreover, it is known from a group of students currently in university that even their dt's are not adequate. The point is that during the master's programme you practiced to put your Dutch on a high level. If you follow a study in Dutch, the language is also included in the assessment. In an English-language master's degree the English language is improved, but is not invested in the use of Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u80	The price you then pay, namely a brake on incoming mobility..........................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u81	Would you like to repeat your question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u82	It's about the price you pay for it. If you give the masters in Dutch, the foreign students will not be able to follow them. Then you slow down the incoming mobility. Isn't that a very high price, especially given your own plea for mobility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u83	The PvdA Group's question concerns the studies that are specifically focused on the Dutch situation, such as Dutch law, Dutch health care and other matters. For this you sometimes only have one master in Dutch, or only the part-time master in Dutch. This means that you have to ask the question whether all those masters who belong to such a study, sometimes four or five, should be given almost all in English instead of in Dutch. Isn't there a shift in the Netherlands, when you see that 80% to 90% of all masters are in English and hardly any Dutch masters are offered? I'll come to a conclusion. The Netherlands is one of the world's top in science and higher education. The aim of this bill is to contribute to maintaining this position, or rather to further develop it. My group supports this ambition, but considers it important that equal opportunities for all Dutch students should be well protected, that the measures taken should not undermine the quality of our system and that there should be no inconsistencies. The impact of the policies deployed should be monitored and no public funds leaked abroad. We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u84	Mr. Chairman. In these days, in which hard work is being made on and speculated about the formation of a new cabinet, it is nice to go back to 1973. Even then there were conversations between D66 and the predecessors of CDA and GroenLinks. The VVD did not participate, but the Labour Party, the minister's party, again. The formation lasted a long time. There were some stalemates along the way, but in the end that center left cabinet lasted almost four years, under difficult circumstances. That may be a suggestion for the informant, but that is not the subject of today's debate. What directly affects today's subject is the motto of the Den Uyl cabinet. I would like to discuss this with this Social Democratic Minister. That motto was: distribution of knowledge, power and income. In his speech in the debate on the declaration of government, the Prime Minister added: distribution of ownership and control. Those who read the lyrics of that time, I have done so for my pleasure, and I am impressed by the topicality, but also by the great tension between these ideals and the increasingly dominant way of thinking that we have gradually come to call neoliberalism. This is a way of thinking that is not aimed at spreading, but that has precisely created that differences in power, income, possession, knowledge and control can increase. Some of these points may not be so bad in our own country, but from an international point of view, the differences are large and partly growing. Economic globalisation has brought a lot of prosperity, but it is not equally divided. The shadow often falls down in the poorest regions. The digital divide, Mr Bruijn, started on the digitalization of Europe, also means that we in the Western world can get an unbridled amount of knowledge on our screen, which is not accessible to many in this world. Even if we do a lot of open access services, it is a good thing that there is no spread in this area too. My group has looked at the legislative proposal from this question: does it contribute to the spread of knowledge, power and income? Or does it contribute to this neoliberal marketing of knowledge and thus to a new form of knowledge imperialism? That is not the easiest question, and I will tell you straight away that we have not found a definitive answer to it. But that is precisely why I would like to talk to the Minister about it and ask her whether she recognizes and shares our concerns and whether she would like to consider how we should deal with them. Internationalisation of higher education is a fact. Science is highly internationally oriented in most disciplines, and higher vocational education is also increasingly looking across borders. We encourage students to study abroad or to come to the Netherlands, there is a lot of collaboration in research and in publications, and institutions also know how to find each other for joint programmes. My group believes that this is important for at least three reasons. Firstly, because this will increase the individual development of students and researchers. Secondly, because we see such a generation growing up that has looked beyond the dikes and that has met friends and colleagues worldwide and hopefully got to think inclusive and open-minded. Thirdly, because the big questions of our time call for international solutions, a lesson that Donald Trump seems to forget. But we have to add something to that, namely that this exchange and cooperation are mostly the privilege of the happy few. It is the privileged young people who are the easiest to study across the border. It is the economic and cultural upper layer and a bit of the middle layer of developing countries that are now moving around the world. They are experiencing great academic and economic growth and are thus gaining even more advantage over their less privileged neighbours. Moreover, countries such as China, Indonesia and India are experiencing this movement, at least when it comes to the upper layer, and not countries such as Liberia, Afghanistan and Nepal. The paradox is that it is much easier, more attractive and more useful for scientists to work with those upper layers and not with the countries or the people who are most behind, while the latter may need it most. This raises the question of how our internationalisation policy in higher education will work out. Cui bono, who's gonna take advantage of this? All kinds of questions have been asked in the course of the discussion, which are based on the fear that Dutch educational money may be sent abroad. In itself, these are meaningful questions, although they are somewhat protectionist in nature. Our fears are a little bit more on the other hand: how do we prevent our internationalisation policy from becoming a form of knowledge imperialism by which we use our reputation and our lead to roam the economic top layer of emerging economies? How do we stay away from Balkenende's still famous VOC mentality, which, in addition to much wealth, has caused a great deal of injustice? This is precisely where the question arises as to the added value of fully self-employed, full-time training offered abroad. If the aim is to mutually strengthen education systems, then we read the documents, then it is much more logical to keep it in far-reaching cooperation and joint programmes. Because then there will be real exchange between the systems and we can learn over and over again. What logic is there to plant an own, competitive institution in another country, except for the intention to gain market share there and thus not to spread power, knowledge and income, but to increase income and power by using our knowledge? Those who offer their own training abroad have no interest in sharing knowledge with other institutions, but will try to distinguish themselves from others in the country. In the reply, the Minister is actually making a bit of a fuss on that point. She writes: "The offer provided by a Dutch institution can also provide a quality boost to the system in the country of establishment, if it turns out that many students opt for the training at a Dutch institution because of the high quality standard." But the Minister also knows that a lot of students will opt for such training because of the Western image of the diploma, which is not necessarily the same as quality? Nothing to the detriment of quality, but image is another thing. In fact, the Minister says: if Dutch education is to win a market there, that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u85	I am listening to this speech with great interest, but I do have a question. If I compare the situation in which people from a far, poor country are forced to come to the Netherlands to acquire the knowledge available here, with the situation in which this unique Dutch knowledge is offered on the spot, which of these two situations would the speaker prefer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u86	That's kind of like asking a vegetarian if he prefers lamb or veal. The vegetarian will say, "Let's do vegetables." The third option is cooperation with local institutions, ensuring that their education there is improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u87	But if the situation is de facto that this local cooperation cannot be initiated because the knowledge that the Netherlands can offer actually has no local equivalent, then is my second alternative preferable to the need for residents of that poor country to travel all the way to the Netherlands and get the knowledge there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u88	I don't think there's any alternative. Collaboration is not easy in all places, but we make it much too easy, by choosing the routes that are most attractive to us. I do not see very well the noble motives that Mr Rinnooy Kan himself may have. To be honest, I do not see this in the grounds of consideration, the latter of which talks about the extent to which the yields benefit the quality of the system in the Netherlands. Frankly, that does not sound like a form of development cooperation, but rather modern colonialism. I'd like to get a better explanation from the Minister on this point. In addition, the Minister's decision to allow a foreign establishment does not seem to address in any way the question of whether it is really good for the country where the institution intends to offer training. That is a bit of the point that Mr Rinnooy Kan just suggested. The only thing that is needed for this is a treaty with the country in question, whereby the government assumes that that country will then decide for itself whether that establishment is useful. In theory she is right: in a world where power, knowledge and income are optimally spread, it is a beautiful assumption, but the ordinary reality seems to me to be a different one. It is not always purely on content, but on all kinds of false grounds. My group is not in advance and certainly not in all cases against a foreign establishment of a Dutch institution, if only because it sees that institutions from other countries also have their foreign branches, even here. That's how it works. With oil dollars, missionary or merchant spirit, transnational education has become a reality. It would be naive to think that we could stop that, as some parties seem to want. But it is at least so naive to think that this is happening in a power-free, idealistic space. International higher education has also become simply a tough fighting market, in which neoliberal parties want to give the institutions as much freedom as possible. We are critical of this, but we also do not believe that there is much point in just getting in the way. That is why we are addressing our concerns to the Minister, to whom we would like to have as fair and realistic a response as possible. I say immediately that I am also looking for the way to keep my finger on the wrist here. How do we ensure that international higher education really contributes to the idealistic goals mentioned in the bill and which I link to the old ideal of spreading knowledge and so on? It calls for at least a better assurance in the AMvB that is yet to come and for a more substantive review on this issue when the Minister gives his consent. Is it prepared to pay more attention in the AMvB to the effects on the country of establishment and to check that explicitly in the country of establishment? Is it prepared to grant permission only in those situations where joint training with an institution in the country of establishment is not possible? Then perhaps I have overcome Mr Rinnooy Kan's example. Is the Minister prepared to demand, in the case of requests from institutions, that these concrete plans be submitted, which show that the establishment of training will indeed make a material contribution to the quality of education in the country of establishment? Is it prepared, for example, to agree with the Minister for Development Cooperation in which countries we would like to make a substantial contribution? Does it see other possibilities to remove the perverse incentives, and if so, which ones? These are not rhetorical questions that presupposing that we can vote against next week. Because we won't. We are in favour of broadening the possibilities, and this bill contains even more elements that we would like to support, such as the proposal to extend the right of promotion, a broad-based proposal that only calls for a lot of criticism in this overcrowded First Chamber by professors. But if we let go of that self-interest, it is a proposal that gives universities, in particular, the space, not the obligation, where appropriate, to give principal teachers the role of promoter. We are therefore in favour of many parts of the proposal, we have no objection in principle to transnational branches and we cannot imagine that this Social Democratic Minister is taking part in the neoliberal rhetoric. That is why we ask that its commitments, which give a place to these critical and substantive considerations, be given room in the process of giving consent to an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u89	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u90	I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u91	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions. I would like to begin with a number of general comments on the place of higher education in an international world and on the objectives of my policy on this issue. I shall then turn to the ius PhD candidates, which many questions have been asked about, to transnational education, and to digitisation and flexibilisation, which Mr Bruijn in particular mentioned. Finally, I will answer a few other questions. We are living in a world that is constantly changing, and I do not need to explain this further here, and developments abroad affect us and become more and more relevant. We are dealing with an increasingly globalised labour market, with a no longer self-evident unity in the European Union, with nationalist sentiments that are palpable, not only in our own country, but also outside. More than ever, in this context, I find an international attitude, namely the willingness to look at the other and actually understand and appreciate him or her of great importance. That is at the heart of internationalisation in education: that is what matters as far as I am concerned. I therefore believe that in our education we should create room for international cooperation, for meetings and for stays abroad. In my 2014 vision letter on internationalisation, I already quoted a study by William Maddux, an expert on internationalisation, which shows that international cooperation can contribute to the development of smarter, more creative and more entrepreneurial students. Mrs Nooren asked about my vision in the field of internationalisation. This is linked to this idea of internationalisation of higher education. The government's vision for research has been laid out extensively in the Science Vision 2025 and in the Review of Science 2016. This concerns, in particular, the exchange of knowledge, including in the context of education. For every subject that passes us, it is not possible to resolve it adequately with one discipline, but it calls for international exchange and cooperation. So in both education and science, internationalisation is not only a fact, but also a desirable development. In my letter on internationalisation, I also stated that it is my objective to create world-class education in the Netherlands, and that is precisely what requires us to make it possible for our students to go abroad, and that we allocate additional resources for that. In response to Mrs Gerkens' question, I would say that there is indeed a need for additional resources, including for the coherence between research and education. In this context, I am sorry that the SP, for example, did not support the study advance. This will enable us to invest more in world-class education in the years to come. What does that look like and what is my vision based on? It is always nice if someone refers again to the Den Uyl cabinet, which cannot happen often enough, I would like to say in response to Mr Ganzevoort. Maybe I should also remind you that the Science Vision 2025 we presented is actually a follow-up to the scientific vision made by Mr Trip in the Den Uyl cabinet. I'm proud of that, because science deserves the government to have a vision of it. Because we have it now, we can discuss it and disagree, and hopefully we can also take steps towards the future. The motto of the Den Uyl cabinet was fair sharing of knowledge, power and income. This is very appealing to me as a Social Democrat, as Mr Ganzevoort will understand, and this motto should also be read as a kind of subtext under many of the initiatives I present here and under the frameworks I propose. I have already distanced myself from the motto that I have heard before, namely that science and higher education would be about the three-stroke knowledge, skill, cash register. At least that's not my lead. This means that I look at the internationalisation of education and research not only from an economic interest, let alone that an imperialist interest or the so-called VOC mentality is leading me, but that I just keep looking at the added value of internationalisation for higher education in the Netherlands over and over again. Indeed, I am Minister of Education in a national context, but of course I am also looking at the added value of international cooperation. It also fits in that I do not only see students as those who maximise their usefulness, but that students and scientists, as I have said before, are, to me, the values of the future. Universities and individual students have a larger assignment than passing on knowledge. Students must feel responsible for society, which is also increasingly international. I also heard Mr Rinnooy Kan talk about self-development and self-development, but also about world citizenship, creativity, guts, ambition and Bildung. I hope that will appeal to Mr Bruijn, given the report he once wrote for the Telder Foundation and that was also about Bildung. That is where we can reach out to each other. It is therefore precisely the importance of the international context for our Dutch students, but also for the international context. That is why I am pleased that the European Commission also addressed this issue early in a recent communication on a new strategy for higher education, and that this modernisation agenda is in line with the Dutch commitment I made during the Dutch presidency. I also mentioned this in Bologna a year and a half ago in Yerevan, where we also wondered who we really want to work with, and where we can help each other, not only in transnational education but also in the general sense. That is in line with what Mr Ganzevoort said on this point. In view of the ambitions in the field of internationalisation, this bill introduces, among other things, an additional incentive for Dutch students to gain more foreign experience. I agree with Mr Rinnooy Kan that we still have a long way to go. In fact, outgoing diploma mobility is considerably lagging behind. Only 6% of Dutch Bachelor's students agreed to take a master's degree abroad in the period 2012-2015. This is much less than in many other European countries, including Norway and Sweden, where the quality of education is very good in itself as in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u92	I have a question in between. I referred in particular to the participation in the Erasmus+ European grant programme itself. Is it true that only half of all Dutch students use that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u93	I think that's still a high figure. The number is lower. I just said that in the period 2012-2015 only 6% of students indicated that they wanted to take a master's degree abroad. So that is really substantially lower than in many other countries. Then you can point out that we bring many international students to the Netherlands, including through the Erasmus+ programme. But that is also because the quality of Dutch education is very high. That is why I am referring now to Norway and Sweden, which also have a good education system, and where more students end up studying elsewhere in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u94	Following a whole master's programme is a step further, but spending a semester elsewhere in Europe is not such a huge step. Does the Minister have any idea why it only appeals to such a limited extent, when it actually meets all the conditions of agreement and usability?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u95	Then you come to the known causes. Dutch students are solid. They're having fun. The studies are of a high level. It is generally pleasant to live and live in student cities. In other countries, you often have to deal with a language problem. The fact that we are attractive to many international students obviously has to do with the large amount of English language courses we have. But none of that is sufficient to settle for it. I therefore really encourage institutions to ensure that students go abroad and to encourage them to do so, for example by strengthening cooperation relations with other universities or colleges. In this context, too, I adapt the profiling fund scheme so that institutions can provide financial support to students if they want to study part of it abroad. Conversely, we try to make it easier for foreign students to get in touch with Dutch education, for example by introducing an improved arrangement for joint programmes, including a new, more flexible scheme for tuition fees. In addition, I ensure that the date of registration of 1 May and the right to study-choosing activities also apply to study-choosers with foreign pre-training. In this context, Mrs Nooren asked whether the statement was made that no public funds are being spent on foreign students, including foreign students in the Netherlands. Again, we do not want foreign students here just for economic reasons. The most important thing is that they have added value, for example with a view to an international classroom. Dutch students who do not go abroad can also benefit from foreign students coming to the Netherlands. That way too, you can work on that bildung, on that citizenship at world level. We do know from earlier research that it is a pleasant side effect that foreign students and researchers bring money into the Dutch state treasury, especially if they stay. The CPB has still investigated this under the Rutte I cabinet. From my point of view, the CPB then came to an amount of 740 million in added value. That is not my motivation, but it is a pleasant side effect, because, as we know, research and innovation are crucial for the economic development of the Netherlands; let us not forget that. Mrs Nooren asked whether there was a risk of displacement by attracting foreign students. I have also recently discussed this with the House of Representatives, including during the budget debate. A motion by Mr Beertema calling on the government to give priority to Dutch students in training with a numerusfixus policy did not reach a majority. There is indeed a number of university studies, the training capacity of which is limited and for which it is therefore necessary to select. However, this selection applies to both Dutch and international students. For example, programmes with a numerus fixus can also create an international classroom, with all the advantages that this entails. Because there is a discussion about the fixus courses, especially at the technical universities, I say here too that in the last year there were 91 Dutch students who could not follow the technical study of their first preference. So they could follow another technical study or study their preference in another city. On the basis of the conviction that this international orientation is of great importance, we often make...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u96	For your information, I have one more question. Is it possible, if I may say so, to discriminate against other Europeans or other non-Europeans under numerus-fixus arrangements, or is it only about allowing the most suitable students?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u97	The latter is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u98	So discrimination in that sense is actually not allowed at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u99	For a fixus training with a decentralised selection, more than one selection criterion should be considered, considering not only quantitative but also qualitative considerations. However, I have agreed with the institutions that it is not in the law that they should also take into account the population of their training. So the question of how to shape your population must also be considered. That means, for example, you don't just select girls. With regard to performance agreements, this would by far provide the best study return for a large number of training courses. And yet, even as Minister of Emancipation, with or without lipstick, bearing in mind Elske ter Veld, I do not recommend that colleges and universities select only girls. Mr Rinnooy Kan pointed out that the Erasmus programme is not only important for internationalisation in higher education. Students and teachers from other educational sectors, primary education but also adult education, can also participate in Erasmus+. It is obvious that, after higher education, it is now the MBO's turn to make use of it, because the students are also older. We're trying to stimulate that. These are more often group assignments, whereas in higher education they are mainly individual students who go abroad. A very good example of this is the collaboration between Noorderpoort, the Alpha-college and the Terra MBO. In it, students accompanied by teachers and researchers have worked on the construction of a homework home for poor school children in an orphanage in Romania. That too is internationalisation. Level 1 and 2 students came to me to present that project. It's very, very impressive to see what that's done to them. Students who often get to hear what they can't do and who will be among the lowest regions of the labour market suddenly see what they can do and what their social added value can be for others. It would be a good thing for me if we could manage to name these initiatives as Erasmus+ initiatives much more often. I'm a passionate advocate for that. Last week, I called again for this at the OJCS Council, in which we talked about the Erasmus+ programme. I had broad support for that at the time. However, calling for it is one thing; ensuring that it is put into practice is another thing. I would like to say to Mr Rinnooy Kan that the European Commission, too, is happy to see Erasmus+ further used and made accessible to all groups. This can be done, for example, by looking at simple things like simplifying administrative procedures. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is in line with my ambition to create more room for internationalisation in higher education and scientific research and thus to promote internationalisation in education and research and to remove obstacles. However, I am not blind to the risks of increasing internationalisation, as I say in particular to Mrs Gerkens, who, in my opinion, sees a lot of bears on the road and actually only risks. I say to Mr Ganzevoort: if you allow it unbridled, it can indeed lead to what you call 'knowledge imperialism', and I do not want that. This legislative proposal is therefore also intended to limit this and not allow everything, without entering into the autonomy of educational institutions. I will come back to the questions about digitalization later. I would first like to say to Mr Bruijn that this also means that there are no absolute answers in this whole internationalisation debate. This is not the answer for the next 40 years. I hope you will keep my successor sharp. The question of how you relate to national and international developments and how you can be responsive to them will have to be reconsidered over and over again. This applies in particular to colleges and universities. They must always ask themselves whether they are doing the right thing and whether they are doing the right thing. I am convinced that, although we are not taking huge steps with the proposals that are now before us, we are taking small steps, which will allow us to continue to go with the world that is so moving internationally. Having said that, I go to the questions that have been asked about the extension of the ius PhD candidate. The Court has examined this part of the legislative proposal in detail and has asked a considerable number of questions about it. I have already replied to some of them in writing, but I would like to go into some of the aspects that have been mentioned here. In the current WHW it is stipulated that only professors have promotional rights or ius PhD candidates. They are empowered, with the exception of others, to accompany PhD students. Let me remind you once again that this has not always been the case. Before 1963, the promotion law also belonged to lecturers from universities. Those were the teachers at a university with an official rank, just below that of a professor. With the disappearance of the lecturer at the university, the situation arose that only the professor of doctoral law retained. Universities and researchers, including, for example, De Jonge Akademie and PhD students Network Nederland, have repeatedly urged me, and also my predecessors, to better align themselves with international developments regarding ius PhD students. The researchers have also repeatedly asked for recognition for the day-to-day guidance of PhD courses, in fact acting as a promoter; a recognition that their fellow researchers abroad often receive. In addition, researchers in the Netherlands often have to wait a long time before a position of professor is released. As far as I am concerned, it is time that researchers were given the opportunity to be appointed as promoters in the case of proven competence. This is also in line with the wish expressed by Mr Bruijn in another context. We will then ensure that our system for young people is maximum supportive and accessible and that we are not overtaken by other countries that move faster. This is, I say to Mrs Nooren, a part of the modernisation of the university's HR policy, where the status of professor does not disappear, but where young staff are also seen and recognised for the work they do. The aforementioned letters, as well as those of VSNU, KNAW, Leiden University and Delft University of Technology sent to the Chamber, show that the proposed amendment is strongly supported by those directly involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u100	I am certainly sensitive to the arguments put forward by the Minister, but I still have a question. Apparently, we deal with it differently than in some other countries around us. However, I also understand that it is no different in Germany and France, for example. What exactly shows that mobility and, above all, the influx of talented researchers are being hampered? We received a letter from the Rathenau Institute this weekend, which at least denies it. Another question is: what shows, with the bottom line above all the interests of the PhD student and the quality of research, that our system is less of it because we have arranged this in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u101	If you look at how we operate internationally, you will see that we deviate from many other countries that do grant promotional rights to others. The Rathenau Institute has shown this well. This shows that the ius PhD students are not exclusively reserved for professors in many other countries; take Belgium, England, Denmark, Norway, Austria, Sweden and Switzerland. Also in Germany and France there are exceptions to the exclusive right of professors to be appointed as promoters. I want to use this bill to create a level playing field, under conditions. We're not saying anyone can just get the ius PhD candidate. We also hear that the lack of a level playing field, Mrs Nooren, has also asked for a contribution to be made to the lack of an attractive location environment for foreign researchers. It also contributes to reducing various career opportunities for Dutch PhD students, Mrs Martens referred to this and thus an excellent guidance for PhD students. So the conditions, just for PhD students, I want to improve with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u102	Soon we will probably come to talk about the guidance of PhD students. I want to talk about the labour market. I read precisely in the reports of the Rathenau Institute, and I see that around me too, many researchers are keen to work in the Netherlands and therefore do not reduce the attractiveness of the Netherlands as a place of business for researchers. And about that level playing field: the Dutch research is in very high esteem and in most rankings is at least as high as, if not higher than in the countries mentioned above. So do you have to want a level playing field if it brings your level down?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u103	Internationally, we're doing well. We are also an attractive country for scientific research. Many of our researchers find places to work abroad. If we look to the future, after all, we are forward-looking and you also asked me to look at all the developments that are taking place now, and how we hold our position in that, we can see that this is an obstacle. I refer not only to the summary, but also to page 61 of the report Choices for the Future of the Rathenau Institute. Mrs. Martens asked about that, too. The Rathenau Institute has included a lot of elements in the scenario analysis requested by the House of Representatives. Page 60 indicates: Create the legal possibility to assign the ius PhD candidates to university professors. Then there are four scenarios. Only in the first scenario, national familiarity, it scores a zero; in all other scenarios it scores twice two pluses and once a plus. This means that the Rathenau Institute also indicates that the ius PhD students extend to university professors, is in line with the strengthening of all these scenarios of the Dutch scientific climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u104	I have no doubt that it will make us more attractive as a country if you can achieve that earlier. However, the question is whether it is necessary, whether there is apparently a gap and whether it is worth the price you might be paying and what we are probably going to talk about later, namely the fact that you are placing the final responsibility for a PhD candidate at a lower level. Does that make the PhD student any better? That's a trade-off, but I see the Minister is doing the same thing, so we'll find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u105	Let me at least take away a misunderstanding. Contrary to what Mr Bruijn says, I do not place responsibility for promotion at a lower level. These are professors and they have and retain the ultimate responsibility for the promoter and thus also for the promotion process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u106	I have a question of a more procedural nature. Whether it is good or not and whether you achieve it or not depends on the criteria you set. How many people do you want to offer a career? When are you gonna do it right? What does that mean for the international position? Will the Minister come back to that later in her speech? The path indicated by the Minister is clear, but the view of when you do well can be different, depending on the perspective you take.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u107	Yes, of course. You will always have to ensure that the level of promotions, which is high in the Netherlands, does not devalue. Of course. But my view is that, with the extension of the ius PhD candidate, the PhD candidate could still benefit from this, subject to a number of conditions. I'm gonna go into that in detail. We therefore need to change this enlargement with sufficient guarantees. I therefore agree with the Members of Parliament who stress that the responsibility of a professor for the development of his or her field of expertise must be sufficiently guaranteed. Mr Bruijn spoke very strongly about this, but I have also heard Mrs Martens and others. I only believe that not all guarantees need to be incorporated into the law itself. Because I know the universities in the Netherlands as institutions that can very well take responsibility for the quality of research and have shown this again with the hand delivery, I do not think it is appropriate to regulate this from above in all cases. They also asked about overarching learning assignments. The professor holds responsibility for his or her field of expertise and in the case of overlapping teaching assignments, that is the dean. He'll be responsible for the whole thing. So someone's always responsible. We're not gonna change anything about that either. Let me explain how I feel. In the Science Vision 2025, it was announced that if the universities consider it desirable, a ius PhD candidate can be awarded. I stress "can." It is not the case that all uhd's will receive promotional rights from the entry into force of this law. For legal reasons this has been expressed in a possible extension to another staff member, who has the degree of doctor or doctor or philosophy. I say immediately to Mr Rinnooy Kan that I am impressed by the precision with which not only he but also his colleagues have read the bill. We will delete the P in the relevant article of the law that is not necessary at the next opportunity. I say to the spokesperson of the PvdA that we want to indicate that it was not the intention, in general terms, for researchers to arrange for them to be appointed as promoters. Of course, I agree with everyone that university teachers also deserve an international career. However, it is up to the university to consider whether the grant of the ius PhD students is involved. This is not being considered for the time being, as I note from the work of the VSNU and the College of Rectors. I say to Mrs Martens and Mr Bruijn that it is precisely this hand-out that helps to remove any misunderstandings or any unintended effects. We've also looked at other countries, at the level playing field. We have looked at many countries, including Europe, where university professors already have the right to promote. We have also looked at the United States. The Rathenau Institute did not go into the ius PhD students very extensively because there are many different universities there. We see that promoted researchers in the United States or the United Kingdom, for example, have the so-called tenure appointment, which Mrs Nooren mentioned, and that this includes a promotional right. These foreign researchers thus have a lead in applying for professorial positions because they have demonstrable independence and final responsibility in the supervision of PhD students. This unintentionally puts Dutch scientists behind foreign colleagues, which is very annoying and very unjustified. After all, Dutch scientists do that work but do not get the recognition that others get with their tenure track. I say to Mrs Nooren that I am very happy that many Dutch universities are increasingly working with tenure tracks, because the trouble of the Dutch system is that a professor has to leave first and that there has to be a formation place before anyone can become a professor. I myself have worked in America for a while and have seen that young people can also get a tenure track including promotional rights and eventually perspective on a professorship on the basis of their scientific achievements, and therefore less on the basis of a formation spot that is released. I therefore welcome this development.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u108	What the minister just said, I'm following very well. The minister just called between his nose and his lips by "final responsibility for guidance." It is incredibly important that we clarify where the final responsibility for guidance lies. Earlier, the Minister said that the professors remain responsible. According to article 9.19 WHW, the professor is responsible for the science area assigned to him. It seems to me that you have to keep this up and that it is important for the PhD student that the professor feels responsible and remains legally responsible, including for that trajectory. Then there is also the final responsibility for that route. This is without prejudice to the fact that it is a nice step that the uhd can call himself promoter, regardless of whether the professor will become a promoter. Do I understand the Minister correctly that Article 9.19 WHW remains in place and that the responsibility for that field of science and everything that is happening there for research and education remains with the professor? If not, we'll have to change the WHW. For my group and for the field, it would be a great deal of clarification if responsibility remained there in accordance with the law. That would not stand in the way of this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u109	We're not gonna change that either. I would like to say to Mr Bruijn once again that I come back to it so much more comprehensively that the professor is responsible for the development of his or her field of expertise. That's what the law says, and it stays that way. The College for Promotions, which are the professors, is ultimately responsible for the appointment of a promoter. So that is not the professor, but those are the joint professors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u110	I agree with that, but Article 9.19 WHW states that the professor is responsible not only for the development of the field but also for the content of the education to be given in that area. The PhD pathway is an educational pathway towards independent researcher. The professor is therefore responsible for these trajectories. I do not think it would stand in the way of this amendment of the law if the professor remained so. It would also be clear to the field and in the interest of the PhD student if that professor remains responsible for the promotional process in accordance with the legal text. If he gets fired from that, we are looking at something completely different, because then we have to change the WHW and then the question is whether that is in the interests of the PhD candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u111	I see it something else. I see that the professor is indeed responsible for the development of his or her field of expertise. That's research and education. The professor can then be contacted. The Board of Promotion shall indicate and determine who, where appropriate, is appropriate to act as promoter. I think that the hand-out made by the VSNU and the Rectors College actually shows a very nice intermediate form in which the professor's responsibility for the field is taken into account. However, where appropriate, it may be decided by the Promotional College that it is ultimately better for the PhD student that an associate professor who has provided proven qualities and perhaps even more expertise on that particular field is appropriate to accompany that promotion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u112	Finally, Mr Bruijn, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u113	I very much agree with the latter. It is only a question of whether the professor will be dismissed from his final responsibility for education in that area in which the PhD programme falls. I can't hear the Minister say that. I therefore assume that the final responsibility will remain there. This is without prejudice to the fact that it is a very good development that uhds can also act as promoters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u114	Then we agree. The professor remains responsible for his or her field of expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u115	I have the impression that Mr Bruijn thinks very individually about that right and that responsibility of the professor, while in reality it has become increasingly a collective responsibility. For me there is a part of the tension, also with article 9.19 WHW. At this very point, I have a question for the Minister, who had just referred to a shift from a formation principle to a career principle, when she spoke about the professor's appointments and tenure tracks. Does this shift not necessarily mean that there will be more professors in overlapping fields or in the same field? After all, if people can continue to grow and become professor while there is no vacancy, the overlap will only increase. This will, by definition, complicate the individual responsibility of the professor. The revision of the WHW on this point is indeed starting to be timely, namely to clarify what exactly is and is not meant by the professor's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u116	I think that is a good analysis by Mr Ganzevoort, because I also think that the position of the professor is changing, also through the development of the principle of formation and career, as he put it correctly. In addition, we want to appoint more professors on the basis of their own knowledge, on the basis of their scientific insights and not just on the basis of what has ever been agreed on formation sites. Themes are getting more and more complicated. In the Science vision and agenda we also point out that research can no longer take shape within one discipline and often not even within a scientific domain. You're gonna need several people very soon. I also think that it can have an advantage for the PhD student if a uhd promoter can be in any case and not just the professor. I think that this is not the end of a discussion, but something that we can resolve in the law through the extension of the ius PhD candidate. Of course, we have not settled everything, because this overlap of fields of science and knowledge may make it even more necessary to change the WHW. I can't rule that out. I just don't see it happening right now. This is the step that I now consider logical and responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u117	I understand that there is now no proposal to change the WHW at this point, but it might be homework for the coming years to see how these movements that are going on translate into increasing uncertainty as to what the professor's final responsibility means. We should clarify that somewhere in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u118	Yes, that seems to me to be a subject that will certainly come back to the review of science, which appears every two years, and the new strategic agenda, which my successor will establish. The world is on the move and the universities are also on the move. This will also have consequences in the coming years. Mrs Martens asked the intrusive question whether the expansion of the ius PhD students was not intended to attract more PhD students and thus merely provide a financial incentive. I'm committed to really denying that. It is for substantive reasons; it is not motivated by financial arrangements. The promotion parameter has been capped since the beginning of this year in the funding of universities. More PhD students therefore means that the fee per promotion decreases. With this, the bill cannot lead to more funding. There is therefore no financial incentive. I can see that in the contents. I would also like to go back to the importance of the PhD candidate: think of a professor who may have an overview of the whole field and also has responsibility for that field of expertise. Think of a professor of African linguistics, who can hardly be expected to be a specialist in all 2,000 African languages. Or think of biomedical sciences, where an associate professor can have more sense of the medical-clinical side than the chair holder in biology. That is a very good example of what Mr Ganzevoort talked about, the overlap of areas of science. It may also be that in a new multidisciplinary research area there is no professor who oversees the whole field better than a uhd who has focused on multidisciplinary research. Finally, there are of course uhd's who already have a lot of experience in guiding PhD students but who do not get the credits for that now. This applies in particular to uhd's with an ERC grant or a Vici grant. These are all reasons, as far as I am concerned, for this enlargement, but with a guarantee of quality. Part of this was achieved with amendments from the House of Representatives. Only those who have been promoted may accompany them. That was a good addition by the House of Representatives. I say to Mr Bruijn once again that it is also unchanged that the College of Promotions is responsible for the quality assurance of ius PhD candidates. That college is made up of professors. Only professors thus determine which professor can act as a promoter or which staff member of a university, other than a professor, nevertheless has sufficient capacity to act as a promoter. That is why I say to Mrs Martens that I am not so afraid of a sliding scale because of this way of securing. Mrs Nooren asked if this is not a drop on a glowing plate. I don't think so either, but it has to be argued over and over again. We will see in the coming years whether this is really meaningful. Mr Rinnooy asked whether this also applies to visiting scholars from abroad and whether they could act as promoters. In the bill, the extension looks at another university staff member with the degree doctor or doctor or philosophy. So that can also be a foreign staff member with a Nulaanstelling. This can be solved well in that way. I now turn to the exact involvement of the professor. I have already indicated in the reply that it is conceivable that in the promotional regulations there will be an agreement for the professor in whose field the doctoral research takes place. Please note that I did not say that this consent should be given. I just said this could be a fill-in. It's up to the university itself to fill that out. I would also like to leave that to the promotional college. I myself am very pleased with the hand-out of the VSNU and the Rectors College. They can define in their own university regulations what can be the way things are going in the new situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u119	Before the Minister goes any further, I would like to comment on her response to my question about the foreign scholars. Do I understand correctly that it is also going to be possible for a lecturer appointed to a college of higher education, who has a promotion, qualified and also equipped with a nulaanstelling as a uhd, to act as a promoter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u120	Yes, because it meets this definition. With regard to the hand-out, Mr Bruijn asked about the experience so far. So there aren't any yet, because that hand-out was just made by the VSNU and the Rector's College. The fact that it has now been created gives me the confidence that this is seriously being done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u121	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, My question was whether the existing hand-out was actually used. I can imagine that there is no information on this, but it was just a question. However, it is not true that there was no hand-out. My first question was whether it was actually used. The other question was what the expectations are and whether we might be monitoring in an evaluation whether the modified hand-out will also be used. Again, if there is no information on the use of the existing manual, I would understand that well, but I was just wondering if there was one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u122	Then I misunderstood Mr Bruijn's question. I thought he wanted to know how the hand-out works, in which it now appears that a uhd has to be sufficiently proven that he is both a good researcher and a good supervisor, that deans can present the uhd and that a procedural intermediate step is now possible, whereby the dean makes a presentation of a uhd as a promoter and the professor in the field in question has also been consulted. We cannot, therefore, indicate this; nor can I indicate that of the present hand-out. I can assure you that I am happy to evaluate this; I have just said this in the direction of Mrs Nooren. Mrs. Martens is afraid of a sliding bowl. I really am not afraid of that, because we have changed this with guarantees. Is it a drop on a glowing plate? Those are actually two extremes of a possible assessment. I think that we find the balance that we all want reasonable. I admit that after five years we will evaluate whether it is. We will also include compliance with the hand-out. That will then be part of the review of science in 2022. Several MPs, including Mrs Martens, asked me how I felt about this hand-off. I think that the hand-out is a very good balance between the professor's responsibility for the development of the field and the responsibility of the promotional college for the quality of the promotion. I hope that I have been clear about the intermediate step and the hand-out, also in relation to Mr Bruijn. The professor thus retains his or her involvement and the intermediate step implies that the dean can hear the professor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u123	The Minister says she agrees with the VSNU's proposal on further quality assurance, but is this guaranteed by the law? Does the interpretation of the law have to have the Acts of this debate or is this also enshrined in the law? How else is it gonna be secured?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u124	I don't see any reason to have to guarantee this further, because the promotional college doesn't change. That works well and I have no reason to worry about it. The fact that the hand-out has already been adapted before this bill has been adopted gives me reason to believe that universities can very well assume their responsibilities. Therefore, I do not want to lay down more legislation than is necessary. I don't think that's necessary here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u125	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment I have requested to evaluate the legislative amendment after five years. I had asked not only to take with me the observance of the hand-out, but also the involvement of the professor responsible and the possible need in the field for a right of assent by that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u126	I have promised that I would like to include the hand-out and thus also the proposal in that hand-out that the dean can ask the professor in question for advice. If that does not happen, it will be evident in the evaluation. However, I think it would be wrong to suggest that a professor should always bear the final responsibility. I really do not agree with Mr Bruijn, because that is the responsibility of the promotional college as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u127	Do I understand now that the Minister says that the professor does not hold the final responsibility for teaching in the field assigned to him?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u128	No, the professor is responsible for his or her field of expertise, but the promotional college is responsible for designating a promoter for a specific PhD candidate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u129	The latter is clear, but I was concerned about the following. So the professor doesn't have to be the promoter and doesn't have to get any other rewards, but does he continue to hold responsibility for, and therefore be approachable to, the quality of education in that area, including PhD education? As far as I am concerned, it is also fine if it is not, as long as it is clear that he is either involved or not involved. Then he can behave and then the PhD student knows who he can address if things don't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u130	Mr Ganzevoort has just discussed the distinction between the individual case and the collective case in an interrupting debate with Mr Bruijn. I recognized that very well. You also have PhD students receiving joint promotional education. Yes, then the professor is responsible for that promotional education. But with that, the professor is not necessarily the only one who is best able to accompany the PhD candidate in a PhD course. That too is ultimately the community, the collective of professors who are united in the promotional college. That's the distinction I make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u131	Finally, Mr Bruijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u132	Once, but at least the professor will continue to hold responsibility in accordance with the current law, until we amend that law. That might indeed be a good idea, if there is only clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u133	Can I make it very simple? Can I compare it to a driver who is responsible for a total institution and a medic responsible for his part in there? For example, the promoter is responsible for the research that runs with the person who does the promotion, but the college for promotions and ultimately the board of the university about the total quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u134	Yes, you can compare it with that. The professor remains responsible for his field of expertise. Maybe I can give an example of my own promotional program. I graduated from political science. You could say that the professor responsible there was also responsible for education, also for PhD students. But I finally got a PhD with Professor Kees Schuyt, Professor of Law Sociology. My dissertation was on the border of legal sociology and political science. At the time, the promotional college agreed with Mr Schuyt as my promoter and I was very pleased with that, because he was by far the best to guide me and perhaps better than the professor in my original field. That's what we're talking about here. Again, it's the promotional college. We do not deprive the professor of his or her responsibility. We're not gonna change that either. I would not like to change Article 9.19 in this respect either. In fact, we are doing nothing but in the current situation. If the dean introduces the uhd, the promotional college will be informed of the professor's response. Mr Bruijn asked what would happen if the professor disagreed. Can he still bear the responsibility? If, in any event, the PhD college appoints a uhd as a promoter against the wishes of the professor, the final result of the PhD is and will remain the responsibility of the PhD college. That seems to me to be the place where that responsibility should lie. As I said to Mrs Nooren and Mr Bruijn, in two years' time I will have another conversation with the VSNU and the Rectors College. I will also carry out an evaluation after five years and include it in the balance sheet of science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u135	May I ask how much longer you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u136	I'm almost done with this subject, but then I have other topics. I would like to say to Mrs Nooren that I would like to refer to the vision of science and the measures contained in it to keep the Netherlands internationally attractive, also in the context of new career paths. I have already referred to the principle of "from formation to career." The second really important topic is working in teams. This is about how someone can make a career. This can be done not only through individual publications, but also through collaboration in teams of researchers with often interdisciplinary links. One can also make a career through education. I call excellent education and multiple career paths. Thirdly, there is the creation of less flexible contracts. Again, thanks to the funding provided by the programme, universities and colleges of higher education also have to enter into less temporary contracts. I am therefore pleased that the aim of collective agreements for universities is to reduce the number of temporary appointments from 30% to 22% in FTEs. The VSNU will be able to clarify before the summer whether this target has been achieved by 2015. I think that the above shows that the university involvement in a careful expansion of the ius PhD students is really present. That is why I am confident that it will go well. We are now taking one step, which many researchers have been asking for for a long time. This step can also count on support from institutions, which have already started to do so. I'm going to refer you to the hand-out one more time. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked specifically for unused opportunities to ensure that talent eventually becomes a resident of the country where travel started. He said that nicely. I refer to the reaction to the Mei Li Vos motion. Priority has been given to this for investment by a new cabinet. These investments are also aimed at keeping the Netherlands attractive for talent. The Knowledge Coalition also linked a sum to this and called for €1 billion for research and innovation. To Mrs Nooren, who asked what we have invested so far in the National Science Agenda, I say that we have invested 30 million in the basis of a number of NWO themes, including big data, from OCW. In addition, we are exploring research facilities through the National Roadmap Large-Scale Scientific Infrastructure and attractive career paths. These are all elements of a forward-looking education and research environment. That brings me to the questions about transnational education. Let's say that the speakers have all done so too: universities and universities have long been positioning themselves in the international playing field. They work together with others through joint programmes and foreign minors. These are basically all forms of transnational education or transnational education. This bill does nothing more than regulate a variant where full training is offered abroad. Already three quarters of training can be offered abroad. What we are going to allow is that the entire training abroad is offered from a Dutch institution. I do not see any more in that, but also nothing less than an addition to the existing spectrum that can contribute to better profiling of Dutch higher education abroad and to the quality of our Dutch education. There are already many examples of institutions that are successfully engaged in transnational education. Think of big names from the US and England, but also Ghent University, which has a subsidiary in South Korea. It is important for the Netherlands and our higher education that our institutions also have the opportunity to participate in this development. I say to Mrs Gerkens that we are not doing this as a variant of market forces, but because of quality. I therefore believe that offering full education abroad, wherever it is, is a good additional option. The debate in the House of Representatives was often about initiatives in countries such as China, but I would point out that we are also working on transnational education in Aruba and Curaçao. Although the plans are not yet in place, I can imagine that a university such as Wageningen in the context of development cooperation, which Mr Ganzevoort talked about, can combine scientific knowledge and improve the lives of the local population. There too, full training can be useful. I am not saying that one should do it, but if necessary it can be helpful. However, it must be well substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u137	You could say that from 75% to 100% is a gradual difference, but I see it as a fundamental difference. It says something about the degree of connection with the Netherlands. Is it still there or is there a kind of holding structure abroad of a completely independent organisation? The Minister says that she considers broadening to be important, particularly for quality. I would like a little more clarification on this point, because, frankly, I do not see the added value of a wholly independent subsidiary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u138	Suppose you have an education in which you are very good in the Netherlands, but not in other countries, then you are forced to work with a joint programme with teachers from both teams. If the quality of the Dutch education is beyond doubt and everyone says that it is by far the best, then this is a way to give you education abroad. With this you can guarantee the quality for students there, but also for your Dutch students and your PhD students, who may get more opportunities there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u139	I see very well that it increases your room for manoeuvre, but not that it increases the quality. I just don't get that argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u140	You can increase the quality of your own education by transferring what you are good at to others in a different context. This also allows you to improve your own education further. You will not be dependent on the conditions now imposed by a joint programme. In addition, whether you like it or not, you always have to bring parts of another programme and thus other teachers. I think it can help to improve the quality and profiling of our education abroad. What are we good at? What do we want to show forerunners? The Netherlands can thus become an even better cooperation partner. Internationalisation is taking place, whether we like it or not. Retreating behind the dikes So I listen a bit to the input of the SP.... is not an option in my opinion. However, I am not saying that we should just let everything happen. I want to make transnational education possible under conditions, and these conditions are the subject of this law. However, the starting point is that internationalisation is simply taking place and is desirable from many points of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u141	I object to the Minister's statement that the SP would like to withdraw behind the dikes. That wasn't my input. In fact, on the interruptions of D66, I expressly said that the SP does not agree with that. We are certainly in favour of international education. This is happening well in all kinds of collaborations at the moment. That is why we believe that this is an unnecessary further step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u142	Then maybe we don't agree. In Mrs Gerkens' speech, I did not actually hear any openness to further internationalisation. I think that internationalisation really is of added value, also for our Dutch students and teachers. My position as Minister of Education in the Netherlands is that any transnational educational initiative will have to demonstrate the added value for Dutch education. That's what's being secured with this bill, too. We cannot just get to work, because the Minister of Education must first give his assent. But my point is also that it is desirable that we continue to shape this internationalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u143	That is certainly desirable, but not in this way. In my speech, I mentioned a number of other issues, to which the Rathenau Institute has also referred, which further threatens internationalisation and where the omissions lie. My group would like to focus on this rather than on the issues raised in this legislative proposal. We just have a difference of opinion about the way we internationalize, not about the fact that we need to internationalize.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u144	I think we should give internationalisation a chance. In response to Mr Ganzevoort, I also say that I am not afraid of knowledge imperialism. This is just a real political issue. If we make sure that we provide sufficient public guarantees in the regulation, and that is what this bill is about, then I think that we can very well prevent this from leading to knowledge imperialism or market-driven higher education. I am convinced that the country of residence can also benefit from the introduction of Dutch training within its system. For example, the prominent place that academic freedom occupies in the Dutch system can be an inspiration for other countries. This can be about internet use, but also about the climate of discussion we have. Students are encouraged to ask questions to professors and teachers and not only to rehearse what one has heard in the curriculum of a professor or another teacher. I am, of course, prepared to look at an evaluation, but from a positive point of view, I also say in response to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u145	You're never too old to learn. Even though I got older yesterday, I learned something today from the interruption of D66 about Stenden Hogeschool, which is active in four countries. I didn't know about that and I went into it with the group. Now it turns out that Stenden also has a college in Qatar, a university as it is called. Qatar is the country where the Sharia applies, where women get 100 canings and where the death penalty applies to Muslim women when they cheat with a non-Muslim man. How does the Minister feel about this? Does she really think that Stenden University has brought new ideas there and changed the country's mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u146	No, but that's not the issue either. What is at issue now is whether you want to make transnational education possible. Stenden works under the current legislation. You can always wonder if you need to change the locations that work together. We don't write a consent and nothing ever changes again. Stenden has that responsibility now too. What kind of ties do you have with which countries? Is there any reason to change that? This is actually more of a matter for my colleague from the Foreign Office. At the same time, it can contribute to change in a country. We have students from Saudi Arabia here. I will not hide the fact that I find that a complicated issue. On the one hand, I would very much like to introduce students from Saudi Arabia to Dutch society and to Dutch values and standards on gender equality. On the other hand, I don't want us to give the students all kinds of extra guidance through mahrams, such as those called, so that they have a male companion with them every moment of the day. I do not want to change the Dutch legislation to that very much. So there are always dilemmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u147	Finally, Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u148	The Minister expresses it very well. There are indeed many dilemmas. That was also my reaction to Mrs Nooren when she asked whether those safeguards from the answer were not enough. When I see that this is already the case and the Minister is struggling with the question of how far you can go and saying that it lies with the Foreign Minister, I wonder if we will soon have sufficient guarantees with this legislation if we start annexations in countries where human rights and women's rights are of such quality that we should not really want to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u149	I hesitate to state with far too far-reaching statements what is going on in Qatar at the moment. But when it comes to the consent I have to give, I think I have been very clear. I have also had this debate extensively with the House of Representatives. On the one hand, you want to offer space for settings. On the other hand, you want to set sufficient conditions for the quality of education, for not leaking public funds and for guaranteeing human rights. One of the issues that we take into account is precisely whether human rights are respected; see your question about women. This is taken into account and further developed in the AMvB to which Mrs Martens asked. Mrs Martens, Mrs Nooren and Mr Rinnooy Kan asked for a leak abroad. The inspection will watch that closely. The inspection shall supervise the separation of public and private resources. Institutions are obliged to account for public and private activities in a transparent manner. They do so in their annual report, consisting of the annual accounts and the management report. The inspection, I say to Mrs Martens, therefore oversees the legal provisions, including the monitoring of academic freedom at branches abroad. The inspection will examine the need for on-the-spot checks in specific cases. I say to Mr Bruijn that these agreements also apply to the NVAO. We're not gonna change that. With this we guarantee the standards that apply to Dutch education at the institutions abroad. Let me make it clear that transnational education is about ensuring, for example, academic freedom within our education. I cannot guarantee the entire academic freedom in another country, but I can guarantee it at the Dutch institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u150	I have a question about the division of public funds. What standard is used? For example, how many percent of the supporting device and the board of directors can be allocated? An inspection can't check until there's a set of standards. Is there a set of standards on the basis of which the inspection is to be monitored? Or can an institution itself indicate how it intends to organise this for education? Then the inspection is only next.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u151	No, but part of the law is that institutions have to make a proposal. They must indicate that the initiative for transnational education does not leak out Dutch public funds. That is why I have incorporated an consent requirement into the law. That happens in advance. The inspection checks afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u152	This means that costs for the deployment of the supporting device or the board of directors should not be attributed to foreign activities. That is the consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u153	That is about Dutch public funds, yes. They must therefore finance this with additional resources. They should also provide insight into what happens to any additional revenue. Exactly how we do that will be included in the AMvB, which is under preparation. This concerns the parts that we have already included in the legislative proposal. In that sense, they are unnegotiable, but they must take technical form. That's what we do in the AMvB. It is therefore a question of distance quality, of dealing with financial risks, human rights, social relations and, in particular, of ensuring academic freedom. A draft decision shall be submitted to both chambers in or after the summer. I would like to say once again to Mrs Gerkens that human rights and social relations also play a role, so women's rights as far as I am concerned too. Women's rights are human rights, and vice versa. I hope that I have answered the questions about transnational education sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u154	My essential questions were precisely about transnational education. I have heard the Minister in such a way that she shares the concerns I have expressed. I have also asked a number of very specific questions, with which the Minister's agreement on a proposal can be given a little more colour, in the direction of what I call the prevention of knowledge imperialism. I asked the Minister to consider how we could do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u155	I think that's a complicated one. We have now indicated that public funds from the Netherlands should not be misused and that we want to make sure that they contribute to the quality of the system here. I hesitate, because otherwise I am going to consider almost improper, almost foreign affairs arguments, where the question is when something will contribute to the development of a country. I think that's a very complicated one. I think we should be modest here. The measures I have just mentioned, such as academic freedom and quality care, contribute to the development of education for students there. If they now want to enjoy good Dutch education, they only have the opportunity to come here. This bill will make education more accessible to a group of students there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u156	I find that a somewhat disappointing answer. Yes, it affects foreign policy and development policy. By definition, it does, because it is transnational. As soon as you talk about transnational education, you can't just look at it from Dutch education. That is precisely one of the characteristics of this debate. Hence my question as to whether the Minister is prepared to consider with the Minister for Development Cooperation how to promote it in the right direction. That is why I have asked whether she is prepared to ask the institutions that are applying to give a concrete indication of what their plans mean and how they have been set up, so that we can get a picture of them. I have given a number of concrete possibilities. It is about transnational education and therefore, by definition, it is not just about domestic policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u157	I fully agree with Mr Ganzevoort, but we must avoid turning this discussion into a development strategy and say that it should only be transnational education in a priority country in the context of development cooperation or if it is an instrument for promoting diplomatic relations between two countries. I really want to stick to the core element that it must contribute to and have added value for higher education in the Netherlands. I have formulated a requirement of consent, which means that an institution must always submit a plan to me first. It is therefore necessary to indicate how academic freedom is to be defined, how it is to be seen to have added value and how public resources are not to be leaked. It is also necessary to indicate what is being done with the additional financial resources that may be generated by this education. There are a lot of ingredients in this discussion. In many cases, there is also a need for agreement with the institution itself. So there are a lot of ingredients to have this discussion. I do not want to lay down what is the most important part of this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u158	Finally, Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u159	I wouldn't want to record the latter either, but that, for example, income should benefit the system here, you could very well explain that you can skim the markets elsewhere for the benefit of the system here. My concern is exactly that maybe we shouldn't want to go that way. The Minister also says in so many words that she doesn't want to. That is why I am asking what the Minister can say at some point: you can raise a lot of money elsewhere and put it into Dutch education, but perhaps that is not what we want. Perhaps a different kind of consideration should play a role in that. My question was whether the Minister could give that element a place in her consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u160	I also had that discussion with the House of Representatives. There were MPs who said: all financial extra revenues should actually flow back to the Netherlands. I have said that I find that undesirable. Perhaps it is desirable to keep resources there too, because then you can make that extra contribution. I would not want that in advance in all cases, because it is a wide range, from a small medical education in Aruba or Curaçao to perhaps a whole campus elsewhere. Take the discussion about Yantai. This bill isn't about all those cases. This bill is about the structure that we guarantee to give public interests a place. We have indicated that this must provide an insight into what we are going to do with these funds. On this basis, I can say as a minister, and immediately my successor, that we consider this to be a sound proposal. In another case, however, it does not meet the standards we share. Again, how exactly we shape that, it will be in the promised AMvB, which will go to the Second and the First Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u161	A concrete suggestion in this complex matter: is it not possible to consider asking the universities that set up such a foreign establishment to explain in the coverage how they experience their own contribution to the local environment, how they have recorded and measured it, what good intentions were or are there in this area and what results they have produced? In this way, the Green Left's wish, as far as I am concerned, to hear a little more about this is somewhat met.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u162	It is not just about universities, it is about universities and colleges, because they both shape transnational education. They must already draw up a plan, because the Minister's approval requirement requires institutions to have a vision. What are you gonna do there anyway? This vision goes beyond merely an institutional interest. You need to think about who your students are gonna be. I can only imagine that the proposal that a university or a university of applied sciences should address this issue in detail. I will specifically involve this section in the development of the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u163	I was talking not only about good intentions, but also about reporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u164	Sorry, I meant not only good intentions, but also accountability, because that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u165	I do not know if the Minister would have gotten to it, but I still have something about the AMvB in relation to the consent rights. The University of Groningen has now committed it to the Faculty Council, the participation council. Does this also come back to the AMvBs in such a way that other universities are bound by these consent rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u166	In an AMvB, the minimum requirements are set. This does not alter the fact that institutions can always make further agreements on this, but the AMvB regulates what should be done in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u167	Does that include consent rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u168	That includes the consent rights. The University of Groningen has indicated, in anticipation of the AMvB, that they are already working on it. The debate on digitisation and flexibilisation is extremely interesting and complex. We can talk about that for hours. Basically, this is the same as for transnational education: there can be anything. Anything's possible. The only question is how we intend to deal with it. I see that this development is taking place and that it is unstoppable. Online platforms influence the educational landscape, whether we like it or not. Virtual and augmented reality can have far-reaching consequences. The developments regarding online education innovation are extremely relevant. They're going very fast, too. We need to look closely at how we want to deal with that. I have Bert van der Zwaan's book "Has the university 2040?" Read with great interest. In that book, an image of far-reaching fragmentation is sketched, with not only the use of MOOCs, online lectures, but also of SPOCs, which, as it were, bring students together educational components. I also read the book "The platform society: Fight for public values in an online world" by, among others, José van Dijck, the President of the Academy. I find it interesting how they outline the opportunities and risks of, among other things, MOOCs and platforms such as Coursera where they are offered. I like the book by José van Dijck and others, and I recognize that in the end they say: a lot is happening, but just as for transnational education, together with other governments, we are the ones who tell us how far that is going and how public values are being secured. They outline two views in this respect. One is focused on education and bildung, which will appeal to Mr Bruijn, where universities and colleges will always exist as places where public values are promoted, such as equality, accessibility and critical citizenship. The other is learning online for almost nanodegrees, bringing together things, focusing on a labour market where employers determine the value of a diploma. Here too you do not necessarily have to choose one or the other. I therefore believe that personalised elements in education can be very useful, but in the end I believe that university and university of higher education will always have to defend those public values. The question is how much we want to make possible in this respect and how we deal with it, for example when it comes to the award of diplomas. My starting point is that we have to experiment in this respect, which is already happening in the Netherlands. Think of blended learning, where online education is combined with campus education. That will change the campus, but in the end it is mainly for the Bachelor's programmes, for a Lifelong Learning, perhaps a completely different story. That is perhaps precisely what it is about collecting SPOCs, collecting parts in a digital world. Perhaps that is very useful for education, but not for the educational function in which it relates, as I said at the beginning of my speech, to citizenship, to educating values for the future, to learning to gather knowledge with each other. I believe that we in the Netherlands are also taking steps in this respect. I'm proud of that, too. Last March I also received appreciation for it. I received the Leadership Award for Excellence from the Open Education Global Conference in Cape Town. I received it because we are experimenting with open online ambitions in higher education, also with the ambition that by 2025 all educational materials should be open. As far as I am concerned, as with open access, that is a crucial condition. That's what I learned from my work visit to Silicon Valley: make sure that private entrepreneurs don't run off with all that publicly funded knowledge and educational resources, but that those resources come back. In short, all these developments encourage reflection, just like Uber and Airbnb, because that is what we really need to compare. These new platforms can change the organization of education enormously. They can also undermine the traditional university, but I also believe in Mr Rinnooy's reasoning that the university has survived the printing arts and that it can survive these developments with some adjustments and a lot of discussion, if we think in good time about how we can continue to defend public interests, for example when it comes to making all educational materials public. I also say that this is not a discussion that has been concluded at some point, because technology is continuing and developments worldwide are continuing. So you can't say that you've finished the regulation at one time. So I think it is very good to continue to talk about this with each other. There we have the book by Bert van der Zwaan for and the book by José van Dijck. We have an opinion from the Education Council on "Created Digital" which also indicates how we can take sufficient account of the risks of digitalisation. I think there's a lot more possible. Mr Bruijn asked for further research and a follow-up. I'd like to take that suggestion, but in a different way. I think it would be more interesting to ask a number of people to write an essay, in addition to what Van der Zwaan and Van Dijck have already done, and to make their thoughts about what is actually coming to us and to include the international dimension. I can very well imagine that this will be an important part of the next strategic agenda, which will be drawn up by my successor. I hope that Mr Bruijn sees this as a commitment to address the debate on digitalisation, but not with one research report but with a live discussion, which will allow us to involve as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u169	Thank you for this commitment. It sounds like music to me. I would ask the Minister to at least include the possible scenarios. Of course, the university will continue to exist. That's not where my fear is. I think the answer to Bert van der Zwaan's question is "yes." I was concerned with the other sections that the Minister himself outlined, where you can see that students outside institutions are increasingly collecting their curriculum, then going to an employer and whether or not they are getting access to the labour market. That development is already there. This is a matter outside institutions, and it is also outside our sphere of influence as a collective sector, as a community. There are the risks of the curriculum being hollowed out when it comes to accessibility, affordability, socio-cultural education, bildung et cetera. If the Minister would at least like to include the scenarios that are conceivable, including these, in the mandate she is going to give for writing these essays, then that certainly meets what I have asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u170	I'd be happy to. I just don't think in very sharp scenarios, but for example the scenario in which you let everything happen and the scenario in which you redefine public values much more at a time of digital society. Maybe we should also think of scenarios in which you wonder which group of digitization benefits now. So I often don't think from those public values as accessibility and quality for regular bachelor students. I believe that digital education can make a huge contribution, especially for those who want to learn parts later in their career, to obtain certificates and to be educated on a part. We also experiment with other forms, such as flex study. We will start with this next year at a number of colleges and universities, also at the explicit request of students. For example, students who have children, combine a sports career with studying or have already started their own business. How can you deliver more customization in that entire study programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u171	I agree with that, but I also heard the Minister say that there is already a partial population working outside the institutions themselves, pulling together the curriculum and perhaps finding the best teachers and paying for it. It is difficult to ask the question: are we going to do this or not? Because it happens, beyond our sphere of influence, in an international digital environment. You might wonder if you should let that happen. Then you should ban it. I don't think the Minister's thinking about that, but well, then we're already going down the road. But at least I want to highlight that part of the scenarios, because that's where the risks are. It avoids any form of supervision and also the importance of an answer to the question of whether we allow it. Because it happens, regardless of whether we want to allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u172	In addition, I am pleased to listen to the Minister's idea of asking a number of stakeholders to assess, or give an assessment of, this digital future. I should like to urge that this group should include a number of representatives of the group that has just come into the picture, namely the young people themselves who, at some point, have found their way or perhaps just found their way and perhaps with very different expectations about their higher education on the labour market or the education market than we are used to. That seems to me to enrich the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u173	I'll take that. In reply to Mr Bruijn's question whether we can only make it happen that students are already collecting diplomas in this way because we cannot send them in any way, I say: I do wonder. In an interrupting debate with Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Bruijn referred to the value of concepts such as meeting and diploma. Well, as long as we have examination committees, they will eventually have to approve a diploma. So you can gather anything from all over the world, but that doesn't give you a diploma. We know that the diplomas will only become more valuable. I am not so pessimistic, if we continue to attach ourselves to the inspection, to the NVAO and to regulation. Institutions must have examination committees, which we facilitate well, and quality management must be regulated. This means that we do have a lot of instruments in our hands to say: we consider this part of digitalisation desirable, but within a certain framework, which is defined by governments. The question is how you want to and can steer that. That's part of the discussions in those essays, among other things. Finally, a few other questions. Mrs Nooren wondered whether ensnaring would not lead to unequal opportunities. That's how I'm gonna sum it up. The current situation is that indeed many master's programmes are English speaking: 67%. That is in itself positive from the international classroom. It also brings with it dilemmas. It must not be at the expense of the quality of education. English must be good, and it must not be at the expense of the perspective of equal opportunities. Especially first-generation students, if Dutch is not their mother tongue, may have additional problems if they have to be very powerful in English on top of Dutch. I've asked the Academy to investigate these dilemmas. One will look at the different perspectives. The completion of the investigation is currently under way. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked where my fear of a negative influx of asking for a contribution came from in the selection. Research from the inspection shows that certain groups of students are already doing self-selection. An additional financial threshold does not contribute to accessibility and equality of opportunity. The report of last year's inspection has made us even more aware of the facts. I can say that it contained some unpleasant conclusions for me. I want to do everything in my power not to increase this inequality. By the way, I have no signals from large-scale no-shows.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u174	On the previous point, may I ask the Minister to send the Academy's report to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u175	Yes. So there are no signals from large-scale no-shows, and I'm also not aware of any subpoenas from the state. If there is one, I would not want to wait until the judge's ruling arrives, because we now have a situation in which we cannot ask for our own contribution. We just have to do something to make it better in the law. Then I can do two things: formalize that own contribution, or make sure we don't. I choose the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u176	I am surprised to hear from the Minister that she is not aware of the legal initiative taken by a number of colleges. I think I know for sure that this is the case. Let me put it this way: if that were the case, would the Minister be prepared to wait for the judge's ruling before putting this article into effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u177	But there is now a great deal of uncertainty about the meaning of the law in practice. I think it is my responsibility to remove this ambiguity as quickly as possible. Then I do not think it would be desirable to wait for a judge's ruling on an unclear passage in the law. It is my responsibility to ensure that this ambiguity, which is contained in the law and which we now know exists, actually says that it is forbidden to ask for a contribution, is removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u178	But does the Minister at least recognise the financial problem that this could create for the colleges, especially if the real inhibition in the Minister's view is removed which makes its own contribution in terms of money and time span for the colleges that have to carry out the selection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u179	Before I took this decision, there have been consultations. It's not allowed by the law now, and all I can do is make an AMvB in which it's allowed. I think this is a political decision, which I do not think is desirable, bearing in mind last year's inspection report. That certainly applies now, given our missionary status. I don't think it's appropriate to do that. There is one other possibility for me: to agree to do what is already in the law, removing the ambiguity and not asking for a contribution of our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u180	Finally, Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u181	Does the legal uncertainty to which the Minister refers have to do with the fact that, in her opinion, selection and selection costs should be part of the total cost of teaching?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u182	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u183	Is the Minister therefore insensitive to the argument that selection is not so much a part of education but is related to access to that education?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u184	But it's about accessibility. This is one of the essential elements of equal opportunities in education. We know from the inspection report that there are already groups of students who do self-selection and who say: if I have to pay my own contribution in order to be eligible for an education at all, I will not go to that programme. That's how you create inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u185	I wholeheartedly support the Minister's position. I have received signals from the ISO, which has opened a hotline, that there have already been 40 reports in the last week of people facing selection costs. I therefore believe that the clarity which the Minister wishes to give is very important for the accessibility of higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u186	Mrs Nooren also asked about digitisation and how I want to prevent institutions from opting out of purchasing digital teaching methods, because of the cost of purchasing them. This example concerns costs that may arise during training, i.e. after registration. That's different from what we were just talking about. I studied a letter to the Chamber in April 2015. After registration, a student is entitled to benefits, such as education, exams and so on. The development towards more digital means is desirable from the perspective of a student in itself, but they do not necessarily always have to be bought in from commercial parties. They don't need to be developed entirely by themselves either. I stimulate the development in higher education that individual teachers and specialist groups make a lot of material themselves. A good solution is therefore the much more parts of educational materials. That is what I advocate in the Strategic Agenda for Higher Education and Research. Again, we will double the funding for the Open and Online Education Incentive Scheme from next year. In this scheme special attention will be paid to the development, sharing and reuse of educational material in professional communities. So here too we do not just have to be guided by privatisation or the market. Ms Nooren asked about the consequences of Brexit on the position of EU students. There is a great deal of cooperation between the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, both in the field of education and research. The consequences of Brexit are uncertain for students. That depends on the negotiations. But I do know that a lot of students fear, especially for international exchanges and Erasmus grants. We will always try to maintain the good cooperation we have with institutions in the UK in the future. That could mean anything. It may mean that more students, who would otherwise go to the UK, will come to the Netherlands. It may also mean that English universities are trying to do so not simply to give transnational education in the Netherlands. This could have consequences for researchers working together in the framework of Horizon2020 and other European projects. It's pretty unmistakable. I hope that the Brexit negotiations will soon clarify this. Mrs Gerkens objected to the merging of parts. I find this difficult, because I see a lot of coherence between the parts, namely that there is a lot of change in the international world. Whether we're talking about a level playing field for promotional counselors or about making it possible to teach abroad: these kinds of influences play a role. That is why we have taken the different parts together. I myself felt the need not to be too fragmentary. Because if I had made a separate legislative proposal on all these parts, I fear this Chamber would have said that this should have been better involved. Let me give you an example of the bill on the study advance: that was not only about the basic grant, but also about a lot of other parts. We have also deliberately put this into one legislative proposal because of its coherence. However, I will take Mrs Gerkens' comment to heart, which also applies to the introduction to such a legislative proposal as this: we must once again state very clearly what the common denominator is and how the different parts relate to each other. We need to keep looking for the middle, which also applies to my successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u187	Mr. Chairman. Our group thanks the Minister for answering the questions and also for outlining the position and importance of higher education in the international context, including its developments. I would also like to mention the importance of internationalisation of higher education. The Group agrees with the Minister that this point requires constant attention, which should always be considered if any adjustment is required in the light of possible new developments. We endorsed the objective of the bill, and we still do. My group welcomes the clarifications and improvements to the original legislative proposal. We have taken note of the answer to the questions, and we are satisfied with that answer. We have also taken note of the remark about the danger of a sliding scale. The Minister says that we have a number of safeguards, but that this is, of course, ultimately the responsibility of the universities themselves, not least of the promotional college, and that also applies to the hand-outs proposed by the VSNU. As regards the AMvBs, I would like to thank the Minister for the state of play she has given. We are, of course, waiting for the results to be drawn up, and we are pleased that the Minister is still sending them to both Chambers. So we can still look into that. I am glad that the consent rights also end up in the AMvBs. Even after today's debate and considering everything, I will advise my group to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u188	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answer and the debate. The Minister stressed the importance of an international attitude for the new generation, both in the socio-cultural and economic fields, and my group agrees with that. Internationalisation is also a real development, and it may be desirable, but we need to look at it, we need to go along with it, because the world is internationalising. I am therefore very happy with the answer. I welcome the commitment of an evaluation after five years of this law, which includes the transnational aspect, if I understand correctly. With regard to promotional responsibilities, I understand from the Minister that the WHW is not being changed at the moment. A professor can therefore not turn his back on a PhD candidate and say that he is not responsible for any further promotion, even if someone is appointed a promoter against his will. That's a comforting thought. If that WHW were to be changed and that professor was no longer responsible, my group would be able to agree, as long as it is clear where the responsibilities lie. Especially if this is increasingly a group responsibility, a PhD candidate needs to know who can be contacted if things are not going well. The fact that the promotional college and the promoter who is not a professor also have a very great responsibility for this is obviously clear, but as long as the WHW is not changed, that professor cannot at least say that a promotion is within his teaching assignment but that he does not interfere because he disagrees with it. That is an important clarity. Salute to the Minister for the space she gives to the secondary establishments for transnational education. I would like to comment on digitalisation. The diplomas concerned a scenario in which a student outside the institutions, without obtaining a diploma, collects a curriculum himself that is so beautiful that an employer wants that student to work with him. The Conservatory of Amsterdam sees this happening. A student finds a good teacher somewhere outside the conservatory, is trained to be a very good cellist, does so outside the institution and does not get a bachelor's degree. Then the employer can say, "Come on in." The question is what possibility do we still have in that case to monitor quality. It is, of course, a very extreme scenario, but it is a scenario that some people believe is not unrealistic. In any case, I am pleased that the Minister has promised to have essays on this subject. I will therefore advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u189	Mr. Chairman. Internationalisation is a very old story: it is as old as the university and it is also a continuous story. The new chapter we are writing now contains a lot of positives. I thank the Minister for that and for her answers to the questions. I actually have three more points I want to share with her. First of all, she did not answer one question of mine entirely, namely that of the contribution we can expect for the Dutch institutions abroad. There are not so many anymore, but the institutions that are there are worth cherishing and there are still some concerns about their future funding. Maybe the Minister can say something about whether or not the Chamber can send something. My second point concerns the question of selection and selection costs. I understand what the Minister is saying: clarity in legislation and regulation is a great asset. But no matter how this change is realized, it is clear that there will be extra interest, including those who claim to be interested but do not show up. Those assessments can be made, too. I therefore ask the Minister whether she is prepared to discuss with the colleges of higher education the fight against additional selection costs which will result, especially if these costs could also increase dramatically in the coming years. Accessibility is, of course, extremely dear to us. My third point is about the future exploration we were just talking about. The minister's gonna have essays write about this. Earlier I suggested to give a next generation a chance to make themselves heard. Now that I think further about it, and in particular about the Dutch order, I would also like to consider considering the division of tasks and roles between universities and colleges in this future exploration. The Netherlands is also a separate country, with a very separate tradition that can be worth continuing or reconsidering. Today, for example, we talked a number of times about the role of colleges in various fields of research. An interesting ingredient seems to me to be the question to what extent that role should be distinguished from that of universities. I look forward to the Minister's response to these last three points. I thank her for her contribution to the debate. I have found it very enlightening, as is so often the case, and I look forward to seeing it in this circle perhaps again when discussing one last piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u190	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to respond to the Minister's comment that she regretted that the SP did not support the loan system, suggesting that the SP did not support that financial impulse. Our criticism of that bill was precisely that this was a cigar from its own box and not a financial impulse from the cabinet. In our view, this impulse is still insufficient. We believe that it would indeed be good to make more money available for research, for example, when we are talking about this debate on internationalisation. The SP sees no bears on the road, as the Minister said, and there is no fear of mixing money with us either. We do see the risk of brain drain, and we share Mr Ganzevoort's well-worded vision of the risk of imperialism. These are also our objections to this bill. In response to my question about culture and values and standards in other countries, the Minister says that these aspects are all secured and that she is looking at them. But in that case, it would mean nothing more than to whisper to the University of Groningen by now that it is better to stop the activities aimed at developing a university in China, given that China is the number one country in the world for human rights violations? It seems to me now almost a fact that we would not be able to start a university there. I would like to look at the question I have been asked about the autonomy of an institution. I would like to come back to that. I look at the expansion drive of, for example, Stenden Hogeschool. The question is whether this autonomy and the responsibility associated with it will always work out well. That means that I think we should continue to talk about this in politics, and I think it remains the question why you should put such a political discussion in a bill on PhD candidates. I welcome the Minister's reply on this point, and I see that she has taken this seriously. In the end, this makes it difficult for my group to decide which part of this legislative proposal weighs more heavily on us. You could argue that it does not go wrong now, at least for the Minister, because the vote against which my group is likely to vote has the minority, but the dime could also fall to the other side. I understand the Minister's remark that it would not be helpful if she had to put forward a lot of legislative proposals, as this might also cause irritation on our part. However, we can choose to deal with these legislative proposals at once. That gives us the space and the freedom to say: we fully support this part, but we would rather not support that part. It's still a difficult matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u191	Mr. Chairman. My group thanks the Minister for the comprehensive and convincing answers and for her strong commitment to higher education and scientific research and its further development. As far as my group is concerned, she has made it clear why international cooperation is necessary to enable and continue to enable top-level education and research. One question has not yet been answered: on the basis of what criteria will it assess in three years' time whether this bill has created the framework conditions to speak of "an improvement" or "an important step to stay in the world summit or to take a high position in it"? My group is pleased that the Minister for Internationalisation does not only want to see it as a commercial activity, but that it opts for a broader approach, focusing on bildung, sharing knowledge, cooperation and the personal development of students and researchers. My group welcomes the clarity about the division of roles between the promoter, the college of promoters and the incumbent professors. My group also welcomes the fact that the Minister has promised that she will look into how things are developing in the evaluation. It is then a question of "what does this mean for the quality of the research?" And "what impact does this have on the division of roles within the university?'. The Minister has promised that she will talk to the Promotions College in two years' time and that a broad evaluation will take place in five years' time. Does the Minister also wish to take into account in this evaluation the influence of the increasing number of English-language master's programmes and their connection to professional practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u192	Mr. Chairman. Actually, I had quite a good time this afternoon. I've learned a lot, too. I have discovered that Mr Bruijn is concerned as a real liberal about people who learn something without wanting a diploma and that he apparently wants to ban the use of autodidacts such as Leonardo da Vinci in the future. I need to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u193	Or Mozart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u194	Oh, yeah, Mozart, too. Yeah, imagine!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u195	I have spoken of "a development in which there are enormous opportunities." I didn't put the word "forbidden" in my mouth. I just asked, how are we gonna handle this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u196	It is actually found that there are people who learn something without wanting a diploma. There's always been one. I have also discovered that Mrs Nooren is following the Minister that I do not think that "I do not want any action to be taken to prepare or set up a transnational educational institution." That means that the board of directors should not put any energy into that, that it should not think about it and that there should not be any participation, because all this also takes time. Because that is a condition, that means that nothing is going to happen at all. That's interesting, too. I'm really thinking about that. I see Mrs Nooren now at the interrupting microphone. This is entrapment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u197	Shortly, Mrs. Noorden. Yeah, this is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u198	I believe that the Minister has promised that all the activities of that party mentioned by Mr Ganzevoort should be financed by private funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u199	Then we're going to fund participation in private. That's interesting. Finally, I come to the ius PhD candidate. I'm a little surprised by the questions about that. Why would a dean or a promotional college appoint a senior university lecturer who has insufficient guidance skills as a promoter? I'm a dean myself. I just can't imagine that would happen. In fact, I can't imagine anyone like that being uhd. Quality monitoring is increasingly in graduate schools and in promotional regulations. Of course, as a faculty, you just want it to be well arranged. For us, internationalisation is the most important issue. I'm not convinced of the usefulness of ancillary facilities. I do not understand the argument of quality improvement, but I will not oppose it. I think we share the intention and the concerns. I regret, however, that it is difficult for the Minister to make that a reality. Public interests are not just Dutch public interests; they are also international public interests. However, through the intervention of Mr Rinnooy Kan, I understand that it has been promised that the intentions and reporting on the plans of the institutions will at least come into an AMvB. I take that as a commitment to my questions, and I thank the Minister for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u200	Does the Minister have an opportunity to answer directly? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u201	Mr. Chairman. There are still a few questions that need an answer. Mrs Martens asked me to include the commitment to the right of assent in the AMvB on transnational education. The right of consent is already governed by the law. This concerns the right of assent for participation in the decision of the institution to provide training abroad. This does not have to be included in the AMvB as such. In the AMvB there is the technical impact of this, but this point has already been dealt with very clearly in the law, precisely because of its importance. In reply to Mr Bruijn's question, the WHW does not change the role of the professor. We also talked about digitisation. I think it is a good thing that we continue to discuss this, but I think we should take care of it in particular. I therefore advocated the essays that this discussion at colleges and universities is conducted by teachers, administrators, employers and, above all, students. The report I mentioned earlier included the example of the organization Udacity, which already encourages students to learn subject-oriented parts, for example if they want to become a programmer. If students have done so, they no longer need a formal diploma, but there are employers who want them. We sometimes talk about shadow education in the context of equal opportunities. You can imagine that in the end there is also some sort of shadow higher education without diplomas. But then again the question is: how desirable do we think that is? So we need to have this discussion wider than just education. Important questions include "what is the value of a diploma?" And "how do employers look at this?'. We are going to organise this discussion mainly as a public debate with several speakers. Mr Rinnooy Kan asked about the contributions of the Dutch institutions to abroad. I did collect a few things. I would have liked to reassure him in the first term. The starting point is that, even in the case of transnational education, money must not flow abroad. This concerns the higher education activities of Dutch institutions abroad. The subsidies for Dutch institutions abroad are therefore not meant by this. It also asked for its own contribution. As I said, before I took the decision, there was consultation with the institutions. We have already compensated the institutions for the costs they incur by eliminating students' own contribution. So they have already been compensated for this once. I am always prepared to follow all developments, but I do not see any reason to compensate institutions in advance. Let's see how it goes first. I have also been asked to consider in the future the speciality of the dual system with the HBO and the wo, also in relation to research and education. There are, of course, a lot of very special things happening at colleges. Think of the work of lecturers. There's more and more room for research. So I say to the Chamber that I will somehow give this point a place in those essays. Mrs Gerkens spoke about the fear of brain drain and the threat of academic freedom. In view of this, should I not say to the University of Groningen now that it must stop doing so? I am really trying to make a clear distinction here between the framework in which transnational education can be developed and the individual cases. Those cases must fit within that framework and must therefore comply with the conditions we lay down. We won't have that framework until the First Chamber has approved this bill and the AMvB is on the table. Only then will institutions know exactly what to do. I have also introduced that the specific proposal has to be submitted to me in order to approve it. That is the time to say to any institution: we agree with this proposal and that proposal does not meet, for example, the requirements of academic freedom. Mrs. Nooren asked me what I like in three years' time. I hope that we will then see that a number of senior university professors are engaged in the reasoning, responsibility, on the basis of proven quality and experience of PhD students, that we do not miss the boat internationally with transnational education, but that at the same time we should not let ourselves get crazy and think that we should go into every development, and that together we have a framework that, in practice, also in institutions, leads to good discussions to participate responsibly. I also hope that all the other parts that we have not talked about today, such as making joint degrees easier for foreign students to participate in the 1 May registrations, are standing practice. Ms Nooren also asked for the English-language master's programme to be included in the evaluation of the Academy report, as well as the relationship with professional practice. I can say yes to that. Mr Ganzevoort spoke about how public funds are used in transnational education and the fact that they should not flow away. Perhaps it is good to say something about that, because he was very keen on Mrs Nooren by saying that every hour of participation or the board of directors should not be included in that. We shouldn't drive each other crazy by putting in an hour's bill. What I have wanted to say and what I have written down is that, in general, it should not be the case that a foreign establishment is financed by Dutch public funds. It is, of course, about the main lines of the budget as far as I am concerned. I fully agree with Mr Ganzevoort on the ius PhD candidate: if a uhd is appointed by the promotional college, I honestly have no doubt that someone would not be suitable. As for Mr Bruijn's question, what if the professor doesn't think that is a good idea at the end of the day? I can only imagine that this is a purely theoretical issue. If this purely theoretical issue is less theoretical, then we have discussed it well today. I hope that in practice I have also given the necessary clarity. I have already promised that the international public interest will go hand in hand with the AMvB. But once again, in such a way that it does not become an instrument of foreign affairs. I would add, also in the context of the Bologna agreements, that I myself made a great plea at the Jerevan conference six months ago to allow the world of higher education to take responsibility for the enormous global developments we are seeing. If we do not want refugees from Africa to come to Europe because they would have a better life here, you can say that development cooperation is the answer. In this context, education for young people and the creation of a future perspective are, of course, an extremely important task. But you can't expect that only from Dutch universities and colleges of applied sciences. But with you, I am very concerned about the role that education can play in this, without us completely linking up these themes. But this is definitely a theme for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u202	Just before the Acts: I heard the Minister literally say: the WHW does not change the professor's responsibility. I assume she meant to say that the change in the WHW we are discussing today does not change the professor's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u203	Yeah, that's totally correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u204	Mr Bruijn pays attention to the fine print.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-eerstekamer-7.u205	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
