ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the VAO arms export policy. I would like to welcome the Foreign Trade and Development Minister and the Foreign Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We have very clear criteria for the export or non-export of weapons: human rights, internal conflicts, regional stability. In Turkey, a country that we still export arms to, it is barren and angry with human rights, arms are also being used against its own people and parts of Syria are being occupied. Nevertheless, in 2008 and December 2016, for example, spare parts were delivered for the M60 tank, which was used again in Southeast Turkey and in Syria. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to suspend exports of military equipment to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-288]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u3	I am aware of the reasoning and I also know that there is a reluctance to deal with and are being tested for exports of arms or parts of arms to Turkey. Nevertheless, this is an example, Mr Sjoerdsma, which brought it up and I am also in the habit of diving into exported weapons that we see in both the border conflicts and when used against our own people. Apart from that, given all the reports and the dramatic human rights situation, I would find it a strong and necessary signal to say: we are totally suspending exports. That would also be a good example to the rest of the EU Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I see Mrs Diks just coming in; what timing of you! Shall I give Mr Sjoerdsma the floor? Then you can relax your stuff... no, that's not necessary? Okay, look at that! I call Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u5	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. We've got arms supplies in the expo, or what was it called... no, expo, where do I come up with that? I'm gonna mess things up now! It would have been useful if someone else had gone first, I think. In this AO we spoke very emphatically about whether you can do anything at the time when a permit has been issued and a strange power in the future will do something with that weapon that you as the Netherlands would not want. At that time, the two ministers made it quite clear that this is simply not technically possible, because at that time it is the property of another person, and it is not really possible to do anything about it, and it is not possible to impose sanctions, for example. We've been thinking about that at GroenLinks. Then I thought, "But you might still be able to come up with something." In the end, I included that in a motion. In fact, I would like to see some kind of sanction in place at the moment when we are supplying arms to countries which, in retrospect, even if you look at dual use, have wrong intentions. In our motion we are going to ask whether it is possible to check what these countries have done not only in advance but also afterwards with the weapons supplied by our country. If they have then deployed them in violation of human rights, we are asking for a three-year ban on arms exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u6	Mrs Diks, I would like to proceed with the reading of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u7	Yeah, I got 30 seconds, huh? That's more than enough for this motion, I think. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that when assessing arms export licences, the government is assessing whether human rights can or will be violated by means of arms delivered from the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that for arms supplies which receive a positive assessment in this test, the Dutch Government in good faith grants an arms export licence and that, in the event of abuse by the customer, arms export policy cannot be sanctioned;]] [[Considering that it has been found on several occasions that war equipment supplied by the Netherlands by foreign powers has been deployed in such a way that, despite the human rights test, human rights have been violated, such as, for example, equipment exported to Saudi Arabia which, as has now been shown, has been deployed in Yemen and the radar system supplied to the Thai Navy;]] [[calls on the Government to review annually whether arms supplies from the Netherlands are being deployed in violation of human rights, and if it finds such a violation, to proceed with an arms embargo to the country in question for at least three years, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-289]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u8	Mr. Chairman. We had a good general discussion on arms exports, in which it has been on the European side for quite a long time, but in which we have also considered a number of national export orders and, in particular, I have considered the export of parts of M60 tanks to Turkey. I would like to ask a number of follow-up questions today, particularly because of the human misery caused by the widespread use of tanks in south-east Turkey and the way in which they have been used to really destroy urban areas. I have two questions about the orders given. I understand very well that from June last year the first rejection was and that it was a gradual process in which this tightening up of arms exports to NATO members of the alliance took place in response to concrete indications of commitment in South-East Turkey. One of these exports took place in April. That's for that, so, okay, I'm gonna leave that on the side for a second. The other exports took place in December. I would like to ask two questions. One. Parts of M60 tanks were exported on 23 December 2016. Why did they not fall under this gradually strengthened export policy, given the situation in south-east Turkey? My second question is perhaps a question of conscience: would these ministers allow these exports again, given the knowledge they have of the situation in Turkey and given the current EU criteria? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Sjoerdsma. I now turn to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK. I would also point out that Mrs Diks' motion was co-signed by Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u10	I didn't participate in the general meeting. Normally I do not participate in a VAO when I have not participated in a general consultation. So I ask my colleagues to at least take that into account. I am standing here because last Tuesday evening the general discussion on Myanmar did not take place. This is also in line with the position on the government's arms export policy. On that point, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many international reports, including those of the UN-Fact-Finding Mission, show that the army in Myanmar has been guilty of gross human rights violations against the Rohingya for decades;]] [[Calls on the Government to join the U.S. Ambassador to the UN and to commit itself at UN level to the establishment of an international arms embargo against Myanmar, at least until the human rights violations against the Rohingya have been demonstrated and sustained;]] [[calls on the Government to draw attention to the need for an arms embargo against Myanmar in bilateral contacts with countries that provide demonstrable arms to Myanmar,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22054-290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u11	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would like to answer one more question, and I shall deal at the same time with the motions for resolutions on the items Nos. 288 and 290. The Minister for BuHa-OS will address the motion in part No. 289. I shall begin with the Karabulut motion in part No. 288, with which I will also answer Mr Sjoerdsma's question immediately. So it's about Turkey. Indeed, following domestic developments in Turkey, in 2016 the Netherlands started to review licence applications for military goods further critically. The same applies to the assessment of dual-use goods. This resulted in four rejected arms export licences in 2016 and so far three in 2017. It involved parts for battle helicopters, for F-16s and for missiles, and ammunition and silencers. The applications were rejected at exactly the risk that Mr Sjoerdsma and Mrs Karabulut wanted to put forward, namely, the internal conflict in south-east Turkey. The cabinet is not in favour of a unilateral arms embargo on Turkey for three reasons. Firstly, Turkey is a NATO ally. Secondly, we do arms embargoes in EU or UN contexts, otherwise they will not be effective. A unilateral embargo is an erosion of the European Union's common security policy. Much more than with a national arms embargo, the Netherlands exerts pressure on EU Member States with rejections due to mandatory consultation mechanisms. They must consult us if we reject similar applications on the basis of the same criteria. With a national embargo, the Netherlands no longer rejects on the basis of jointly defined and shared EU criteria, but on the basis of national policies. Other EU Member States will not have to look at our denials. We'll have no more influence and we'll put ourselves out of business. The application for authorisation referred to by Mr Sjoerdsma concerned parts of the M60. It was a joint product development by the defence industry. They were shock absorbers tested by the industry. They're not meant for the Turkish army. This licence does not set a precedent for this either. Mr Sjoerdsma's question was: what would you do now? If the Turkish army wants to handle the purchase of the shock absorbers, a new licence application will again be very critically tested for end-use by Turkey including possible deployment in the southeast. If that is the case, we will reject it. That brings me to my assessment of the motion in part No. 288. I reject that motion because of the large number of reasons I have mentioned. On the occasion of the motion in part No. 290 I would like to inform Mr Kuzu that we have an embargo by the European Union on arms exports to Myanmar. I would like to endorse his call for this to also be a UN embargo. I would therefore like to support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u13	I call the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I'll come to the motion in part No. 289 by Mrs Diks and Mrs Karabulut. I'm going to make a commitment and I'm going to say something about the motion. We also discussed this issue during the debate. I think everyone agrees that we would prefer to avoid the situation as outlined. So I would like to promise that I will address the issue at EU level, in the working groups that are there for it. I would also like to hear from other Member States how they view this and whether there is a way to address it. I dissuade the motion, because if we were to implement it as it says here, it would result in an effect in a national arms embargo for three years. Mr Koenders has just explained why we are not in favour of this. Once again, however, I would like to make a commitment to tackle the problem within Europe. It will undoubtedly be our successors who will report to the Chamber on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u15	Mr Sjoerdsma has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u16	Mr President, I am sorry. I should have just gotten up when Minister Koenders was standing there. I just have one question about Myanmar's emotion. Mr Kuzu has submitted it. Although he was not present at the debate, we agreed to do so. I also get it: it does touch on this subject. We would also have a general discussion on Myanmar, so we are doing this now without discussion. Would you allow me to ask Minister Koenders one more question on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u17	I'll allow that. Next time, pay attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u18	It's a short question. The Minister says he thinks this is a sympathetic motion. To be honest, I agree, because I think it is a logical solution. However, this will probably need action in the coming days as well. Wouldn't it be wiser? Who am I to suggest that? To take over the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u19	I hear "fine" from box K, but the whole Chamber has to agree to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u20	Mr. Chairman. I don't have a problem with that. It is a good question from Mr Sjoerdsma. I'd like to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u21	I shall see if anyone objects to taking over Mr Kuzu's motion. It seems to me that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u22	I have a question for Minister Ploumen when she comes out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u23	Yeah, sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u24	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to raise this at least at EU level. I am pleased that you are aware with us that it is really a problem not to be able to sanction arms supplies in the future either. In that connection, we shall proceed with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u25	Fine, fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u26	At the request of Mrs Diks, I propose her motion (22054, No. (Applause from the European Democratic Group and from the Group of the European People's Party) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u27	This brings us to the end of this VAO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-13.u28	We shall vote on the motion tabled next Tuesday. The spokesmen for the next subject are present, I see. Then we go to the VAO about Suriname.
