ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. It may not be customary during Question Time, but it is sometimes good to celebrate success. I am pleased, and I think the Secretary of State too, with the message that the taxi recruiters at Schiphol Airport are being dealt with and that this is now allowed by the judge. That is a file that is also important within KLM/Schiphol. I'll get to the subject. Make The Netherlands Second, the film by Arjen Lubach, is already a comic TV classic, but with Air France and KLM it is being second, the second being, more and more a tragedy. Yesterday De Telegraaf reported that Air France-KLM wants to rob the Dutch branch of the last control. The French want to transfer key business lines to Paris. Especially the fact that KLM has nothing more to say about successful alliances with the Chinese partners is the neck blow, say sources within the KLM management. In addition, there would be some kind of superministry, I quote, in which the digital communication and marketing departments come together. The works council has now sent a letter of fire to the holding company in France demanding that the new centralisation plan be immediately discontinued, the newspaper reports. According to the chairman of the works council, Jan-Willem van Dijk, this plan turns KLM into an executive of French plans and KLM has nothing more to say about himself. That is why I have the following questions to the Secretary of State. Are these messages true and have the Secretary of State taken note of the letter from the works council? If not only the control over partnerships, but also the marketing department, say the promotion and sale department, ends up in Paris, is KLM not going to be in the corner again, leading the French? Thirdly, are the reports correct that the maintenance division is also afraid of new reorganisations, while they want to get to work? Finally, are the reports by or-President Van Dijk that more and more French people are appointed to key posts within the holding company? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Monasch for his comment on ending the possibility of recruiting at Schiphol Airport. I'm very pleased with that judgment. Let us now, above all, ensure proper enforcement. Mr Monasch has asked me about the situation at Air France-KLM. He asks me if the messages are correct and if I have taken note of the letter sent by the works council to the management board. I saw that letter and, of course, I saw all the coverage. Of course I understand that there are concerns with KLM's staff. There is a great deal going on, including at KLM itself, to ensure that the airline becomes more competitive. For the people who work there, that is always a step that needs to be taken. I therefore understand these concerns, but I have also taken note of the news from Air France-KLM that has been published today, in which it is said that there is no further integration of Air France and KLM's activities at group level within the framework of the plan on which they are working, Trust Together. We have been informed of this in a public statement today. We agreed with the management of Air France-KLM that there would be no further centralisation of activities and that there could be no transfer of jobs from KLM to Paris. That's what we stand for. Those appointments are on the table, too. I wish to abide by that, but I have no reason at the moment to believe that these agreements are under discussion, partly in the light of the management's reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u3	I thank you for the first answers. She has not yet answered two questions. The first is whether it is true that new reorganisations are imminent for the maintenance division. As we know, KLM's maintenance division is one of the many pearls at Schiphol Airport that does not only tasks for KLM, but also for many other airlines, up to now in Asia. Can the Secretary of State also respond to these messages? She has not yet responded to my final question. According to the reports, more and more French people would be appointed in all kinds of positions. I don't follow the job desk at the KLM and Air France, but is that message correct? We know the shirt is closer than the skirt. What's close, what's known, goes first. Can the Secretary of State confirm these messages or, preferably, disprove them because they are not mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u4	Perhaps I could give a more general answer to those two last questions. Companies as a whole are constantly thinking about how to ensure that they continue to participate in all those other companies from outside Europe, how to remain competitive. So you can't rule out the fact that there is being reorganised, both at KLM and Air France. The question is whether there is a transfer of jobs. We now know that we do not think that is desirable. We're in front of that together. Next week, annual figures will come out. Earlier, I agreed with Mr Janaillac to have a progress review sometime in these weeks about everything that is going on around the annual figures, the whole story of Trust Together. We will raise this issue not because I doubt what came out yesterday, but because I believe that it is important with the Chamber that peace should continue to be radiated and that people should be able to concentrate on what is needed to make the company as strong as possible. I cannot say it often enough: the real competition for Air France-KLM is the enemy, if you like, rather than in the company, it comes from Dubai and from Turkey. It is important that we keep our sights on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u5	The latter may require an increasingly interesting debate on where we are going to set the limit to globalisation. Some say 'Americana first', but in this context you should say: can such companies not compete too easily, with conditions that are different from those in Europe? I believe that the political debate on this is coming. Finally, do I understand the Secretary of State that she is not yet in contact with the Executive Board, but that she will soon have an appointment and that this will be on the table again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u6	In any case, I was going to have an appointment on the basis of the annual figures that will come out next week. Then we also get a better idea of how both companies stand. I thought that would be a good and appropriate time to talk about this. We can also take into account all the progress on Trust Together and the recent media expressions. That seems to me to be the right way forward. So this is not the reason to have that conversation, but we can of course take this into account in the conversation. That's how I can put it the sharpest. The first point was a broader debate: how do we ensure that our airport and airlines are kept competitive, and that we prevent a race to the bottom, even when it comes to the place that the people in it deserve? I'm ready for that debate every day. I'd love to!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u7	I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u8	I am really surprised that Mr Monasch is standing here. I'd like to have said that anyway. Then I can also put my questions to the Secretary of State. The motion 28165, no. 242 is about a balanced distribution of power within Air France-KLM, also within the Group Executive Committee. The motion in part No. 244 is about taking an equal percentage in the division of state as the French. In motion 31936, no. 273 is asked to convert a butter-soft memorandum or understanding into tough legally binding contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u9	How many motions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u10	Only three more, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u11	Only giving the numbers is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u12	I will. The motion in part No. 307: investigation into possible buy-back of KLM. We even had financial cover for that. The motion in part No. 359...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u13	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u14	I'll tell him. It is a question of making use of all the right to vote and the State is also a shareholder in order to remove KLM from its lame position and to draw up a rescue plan. All these matters were not even raised by Mr Monasch, not when he spoke on behalf of the PvdA and not now either. And now he's standing here right before the election putting on big pants! None of my motions have been passed, unfortunately. We're almost alone in that. What can the Secretary of State say about all the motions I have tabled in recent years to help KLM and Schiphol, as major private employers and companies of national interest, out of the position they are in? There is going to be a parliamentary survey one day and a lot of people will be sitting here with a wet buttock. Watch me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u15	I know that Mr Graus has a very big beating blue heart for KLM, but I must also note that he is not the only one. I think it has been said at all times by the Chamber and the Cabinet: we obviously want to safeguard the national interest. I have also said that we are not in the company's cockpit. It's a company. The government has only a very small percentage of shares. Ultimately, for the long term, it is very important for the company itself that it can really survive in the world of competition around it. That's gotta be the focus of everything. A lot of the solutions put forward by Mr Graus have not been adopted for nothing by a majority in the Chamber: they have sometimes been unworkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u16	We're not going to have the debate again. We are really restricting it to oral Question Time. A second supplementary question, Mr Graus. That remark also applies to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u17	All the suggestions I've made, they're stuck in the Acts, were in the interests of KLM. They were also in the interest of Transavia, because I also have a green heart, in the interest of the e.g. the Netherlands and in the interest of Schiphol. Those motions were not supported. I predict again here: if there is ever going to be a parliamentary survey, I am the only one who can sit back relaxed, because the government and the Chamber have not taken their responsibilities. They have not adequately protected KLM to maintain employment and turnover for e.g. the Netherlands. The same goes for you, Mr Elias. You can yell behind my back, but this also applies to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u18	I think Mr Elias was trying to say in some more unparliamentary terms that what Mr Graus says is not true. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr Elias did not say that in the interrupting microphone, so that does not count.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u20	Let me say, then, that what Mr Graus says is not true. I think that the Cabinet and the Chamber at any time is here in the Chamber, but also in other places are just standing for that national interest. I've been to Paris, too. I've told the Chamber I'll be right back there when I need to. However, there is a difference between Mr Graus' solution and reality, because we do not run and run that company. We're dealing with that limitation. I don't think we should pretend to have that power and space. If necessary, we can exert political pressure to safeguard our interests. We do that, often behind the scenes, but sometimes before. The Chamber can always count on me to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u21	I agree with the Secretary of State: it is a broad feeling shared in the Chamber, a blue heart. In the first motion I tabled as a Member of Parliament following a plenary debate, I asked the government to stand up for KLM's national interest. That motion is widely supported. So there is no point in looking at who exactly supported what; we all think so. I'll ask the Secretary of State to keep his finger on the wrist. The Secretary of State says: we must consider whether there is a transfer of jobs; that is not the case or at least I have no reason to believe that it is now. Still, it's happening secretly. It may not be the case that jobs from Amstelveen suddenly end up in Paris...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u23	...but French people are appointed in crucial places. In that case, the national interest will be compromised and we can appeal to the Secretary of State. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a serious look at the letter from the works council? Can she verify exactly how this job opening went to see if it's true what they're saying? Can she then respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u24	Again, of course, I read the letter from the works council. I told the Chamber that I think you should take these kinds of signals seriously. I also said that there was a reaction from the company itself today. In that it actually says: there is no transfer of tasks at group level. I have promised Mr Monasch, and thus the entire Chamber, that I will put the recent signals on the agenda of the conversation I will have with the Air France-KLM Executive Board anyway. I will therefore look, among other things, in the light of the letter from the works council, at the question of exactly what the concern is and whether there is a reason for it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u25	I didn't use an unparliamentary word. I simply said: it is talk that only Mr Graus's group would care about KLM's position. This applies to all parties in this Chamber, even though they have a different emphasis here and there. Of course, we all consider this position to be extremely important. In that context, I have one question for the Secretary of State. She said she's ready to think about assisting the KLM where it can, putting pressure on the political level and so on. The Commission, like all of us, will have to face up to the fact that the question of what is important for the longer term will be the situation when KLM's management is the highest bosses, will I just say that it chooses to place large maintenance parts in places other than Europe which will maintain the company as such and thus the employment of the entire company? That is a serious question to answer for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u26	I have already said in reply to a question by Mr Monasch that both the KLM and Air France branches need to be reorganised in order to be able to operate in the longer term in such a cost-effective way that the company can really compete. This requires making sacrifices in France and the Netherlands, and making those sacrifices must be in balance. I think that is what the discussion is about all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u27	And now a question that hasn't been asked. I give the floor to Mr Leenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u28	This subject is not on the agenda for the first time: it comes back regularly, as it is now. We had a debate on this not so long ago. The Secretary of State says she's gonna be talking to Janaillac soon. Will that happen in the short term? We have an AO aviation right before the election recess. Then we could talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u29	I cannot promise that this will happen immediately after that general consultation. I have also said that I do not want to do so until the annual figures have been published. That will not be the case until the end of next week. In addition, it must fit in with the agendas. So I would like to be careful not to make any promises that I cannot deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u30	Perhaps you could mention a time limit. I believe that Mr Van Helvert has asked the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u31	In any case, I can announce in that general consultation when that discussion will take place. That seems fair to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u32	My supplementary question is whether you are having a separate conversation with the KLM management, apart from Air France/KLM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u33	We actually have a lot of contact with the KLM management. In this case, I think it would be most useful to discuss the broader story of Trust Together with the Air France-KLM summit. In the meantime we really have constant, so sufficient, contact with KLM in the Netherlands, so the ties are close.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u34	I support the Secretary of State's plea. I have the occasional feeling that the Chamber conducts the work consultation of Air France-KLM. I have a supplementary question. Trust Together had to be the solution. Among other things, it had to prevent this kind of newspaper articles from appearing, which almost makes you think it's distrust for ever. Is the Secretary of State prepared to describe how culture is doing and what the answer is to whether there really is confidence? This progress must be based on trust. Perhaps this will help to prevent us having a debate on this subject on a weekly basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u35	The last point I would like to make is that we are not in the management of the company. I'm not a shadow CEO of KLM either. And culture is also, in the end, a typical business-internal matter. It is very important that the Air France-KLM Executive Board's intention is to strengthen culture. Of course, we must constantly work together to ensure that it is possible to do so, but this is not something that can be enforced by the Chamber or the Cabinet. That's something that needs to be done in the company itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
