ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u1	Mr. Chairman. It is my honor and pleasure to be in this Chamber to defend my bill. I would like to thank the speakers for their constructive input and the good questions and comments they have put forward in the first term. I will try to answer the questions per speaker. I shall begin with Mr De Graaf. I would also like to thank him for his, at times critical, input. At the same time, of course, he tried to flatter me by quoting me a number of times. That makes up for a lot of things. In the House of Representatives I said that this bill contributes to the solution of a fundamental problem. A fundamental problem, if you will. I repeat those words in this Chamber. The problem to which I refer is the potentially inadequate involvement of the States-General in the adoption of international treaties. This subject has always been of great concern to my party. If I am not mistaken, so is Mr De Graaf's party. In my opinion, this involvement can be improved. With this bill, I am trying to make a contribution to this, not more, but certainly not less. Pursuant to our Constitution, provisions of treaties which, by their very nature, can bind each other have binding force after they have been published. They go above national laws and even above the Constitution. At present, these treaties can be adopted implicitly by the States-General. This bill ensures that the government points out to the parliament if treaties contain all binding provisions, so that the parliament in turn can make a more informed consideration of how it intends to treat the treaties in Parliament. The problem is fundamental and fundamental, because it is a principle within our rule of law: the principle of parliamentary involvement in important treaties to which all Dutch people are bound. So I'm sticking to my words. And I am surprised that Mr De Graaf calls this nonsense, all the more so because I know D66 as a party which has the highest regard for Parliament's information position, as do I. Mr De Graaf also stated that this bill was not a solution to the fundamental problem of the lack of parliamentary involvement in the adoption of international treaties. A better solution would perhaps be to give explicit approval to the treaties with all binding provisions. But Mr De Graaf would not have supported that. I think it's two-and-a-half. I believe that the proposals now before us meet all the wishes. Moreover, I am not the first to stress the importance of this parliamentary involvement. The Thamassen State Commission also mentioned this. The State Committee considered that the Rijkswet's adoption and publication treaties "allow too large an exception on the basis of democratic legitimacy of important treaties, by allowing treaties which contain all binding provisions to become binding without parliamentary approval." So I am not the first to see this problem. I have come up with a solution and I welcome Mr De Graaf's support for it. I come to the questions asked by Mr Schrijver. He asked about the reasons and the added value of this proposal. He also asked whether this could have been done by means of a motion or on the basis of a commitment from the government. I have already replied to Mr De Graaf on the reasons for this proposal. On the question of whether this obligation to provide information could not have been achieved by means of a motion or a commitment, my answer is 'no' for two reasons. We have a Reichswet approval and disclosure treaties. We have laid down the procedure for the adoption of treaties. I believe that if we want to change something about that, it is the right way and perhaps even the royal way to change the state law. The advantage of codifying, i.e. laying down the law, the obligation to provide information is that there can be no misunderstandings about it. Mr Schrijver also asked me to reflect on the concept of 'every binding provision', as found in the 1956 Constitution. Mr Van Apeldoorn noted that the meaning of the concept is not always evident in legal literature. I can only agree with both gentlemen on this point: there has been a lot of discussion over the years, not only in parliament but also in justice and literature. I note that in 1956 the term 'any binding treaty provision' was introduced by the Drees cabinet in order to establish that not all Treaty provisions directly operate in the Dutch legal order and that not all Treaty provisions take precedence over Dutch law. I can only agree with the opinion of the Drees cabinet on this point. I am pleased that a distinction has been made between all binding provisions and those which are not all binding. I agree with the definition suggested by Mr Schrijver, namely that any binding provisions of treaties are provisions to which citizens can derive rights directly or which impose obligations on citizens. Perhaps that is an even better description of what this type of provision is intended to do and has an effect in practice. This also answers Mr Schrijver's question whether I believe that these can be not only rights but also obligations. That is one of the reasons why I attach great importance to the inclusion of the government's legal obligation to provide information to the States General. It is precisely because any binding provision can also directly impose obligations on people that both Chambers of States-General should be able to take note of the government's view on this matter. Otherwise, obligations could be imposed on Dutch citizens without the intervention of parliament. I do not think that is desirable in principle. Mr Schrijver also asked about the decisions of international organisations and their parliamentary control. In response, I say that decisions of international organisations fall outside the scope of the National Law on the adoption and publication of conventions and of Article 91 of the Constitution. Indeed, any binding provisions of acts of international organisations are not submitted to the Chamber by treaty. In the literature, however, Professor Besselink and Mr Mudderman argued that this type of decision should be included in, for example, the EU's summaries of Article 1 of the Rijkswet approval and publication treaties. Professor Writer probably knows that even better than I do. I would be in favour of this in itself, but I would particularly like to focus on the government's view on this point, because, although it is insulting to my proposal, it is not part of it. In any case, I note that Parliament's involvement in these decisions can be improved. But once again, I would also like to point out that, since the Treaty of Lisbon, it has been possible for a parliament to influence that type of decision in more different ways. I thank Mr Schrijver for his question whether I am a moderate monist or a dualist. That gives me the opportunity to take away possible misunderstandings from him and perhaps others. As far as I am concerned, the nature of our legal order is not under discussion today. I note that, on the basis of our Constitution and case law, we are in a moderate monist system. I don't have any plans to do anything about it. Nor do I have the time for that, if I had such plans. This proposal is in no way intended to introduce a different legal system. My aim is only to make the procedure we now have for the adoption of treaties more transparent, clearer and more precise. Mr Schrijver asked about the final judgment on who decides whether Treaty provisions are binding each. In the written contribution I mentioned earlier that the final judgment lies with the court. That's what we agreed on, and I'm in no way concerned about that. I would point out, however, that judges involve legal history and treaty history in their judgment. If a treaty is concluded, it is only logical that the judge should be the first to look at the text and intention of the parties to the treaty. This proposal can help because it ensures that the government's view is always known in the future. The second example mentioned by Mr Schrijver in this connection was the Urgenda case. The appeal is still pending. I think I would like to await the outcome of this with many people before I give an opinion on it, especially in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u2	I listen very handcuffed to Mr Taverne. I had not invited him to sit at the courthouse in The Hague in his assessment of the Urgenda judgment. I had asked him if he was open to the so-called reflex action. We also see in other parts of the law that if you add all kinds of things together, the question of whether or not it is any binding provision is still too simple a question. In case of doubt you can also check if there are other documents that help color that. The Hague Court did the same. My question was: what does Mr Taverne think of the reflexive effect, which was so impressively put on paper by the Hague Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u3	This is an extremely important question, which I do not think is easy to answer. I think that the reflexive effect, which has just been very well explained by Mr Schrijver, fits in with the instruments available to the court and necessarily also frequently used to assess the scope of a provision. In this sense, the proposal before us is perhaps an additional aid. In the end, the judge wants to be able to reach a good judgment on the interpretation and scope of a provision. Then anything that can help him is welcome. In that sense, I would like to place them next to each other rather than give a substantive opinion on this matter and on reflexive action as such. It may be an instrument as part of a broader valuation of a provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u4	It is good that Mr Taverne pays attention to the legal history and the travaux préparatorys of a treaty. But he has studied this so thoroughly that he also knows that it has only an additional meaning in Vienna's law of treaties. The first is, of course, the wording of a treaty in the ordinary sense, in the context and in view of the purpose of the treaty. Only additional, complementary, secondary, or whatever word you want to use for it, is the legal history at issue. Does Mr Taverne agree with that authoritative expression of the interpretation of the Treaty as in Article 31 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties? Or does he actually want to gnaw at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u5	I very much understand that Mr Schrijver is trying to taste my kidneys. This also fits in with a debate on a subject that affects Parliament's information position. He sees me hesitant, but I can respond to one part of the question. Especially in such a high academic group I would not like to take a final view on this. I can answer with great certainty that I believe that the legal history is indispensable for interpretation and that the reflex action can be of great use, but I see them side by side and not apart from each other. If necessary, I can reassure Mr Schrijver that I am not trying to gnaw at anything. I'm just trying to put down an extra block of cheese. I thank Mr Van Apeldoorn for his questions, his support and his constructive contribution. He asked about the substance of the legislative proposal and what non-essential aspects of the proposal had been changed compared to the original proposal. Let me say first of all that, as far as I am concerned, the substance of the proposal has remained. That is the fact that more parliamentary involvement of treaties is desirable. I had originally designed the proposal as recommended by the aforementioned Thomassen State Commission in 2010 and as stated by the Lower House in the examination of the State Committee's report, including through Mrs Van Veldhoven of the D66 Group. It asked the government to implement that specific recommendation contained in the report of the State Commission by introducing a legal obligation to expressly approve any treaty with any binding provisions. Following the letter of amendment, the Chamber is no longer obliged to deal with all such types of treaties, but is obliged to provide information to the government. It's two sides of the same coin. I am glad that the medal has been maintained for the time being. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked how often treaties with any binding provisions are not expressly dealt with. The honest answer to that question is that we don't know. That is the problem right away, but fortunately this proposal, if it becomes law, can also contribute to it. If this law comes into force, I think it will become much clearer how many treaties that are being submitted contain this type of provision. Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Lintmeijer also asked what will change in practice. The practice now is that, on average, there are one to two treaties whose silence is broken. In the period 2012 to 2016, 124 treaties were offered to the House of Representatives for tacit approval. Speaking out of my mind, 15 times the silence was broken. I imagine it could be very good that this will happen more often. I think that is good news, and I think everyone who has a heart for Parliament's information position is very keen on me. Practice has to learn. That is why we have included an evaluation clause in the law, so that in five years' time we will be informed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of what is then the current practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u6	Those fifteen times, not the hundreds, but the fifteen times where the tacit procedure has been broken: there undoubtedly was Mr Taverne. Were these all 15 parliamentary initiatives aimed at breaking the silence because they were all binding provisions, or were they also related to other political wishes and preferences?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u7	I hope I will be forgiven for not having the details of all fifteen. I refer to the convention for the exchange of convicted Dutch people with Peru. You can argue that it had a political character, but also that it could affect anyone in the Netherlands. I don't think it's possible to draw a line. Every consideration is a political consideration, especially in the House of Representatives. In any case, there was always sufficient reason for the House of Representatives to discuss it explicitly with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u8	Mr Taverne's reply shows that there can be no logical causal relationship between the fact that fifteen times the silence has been broken and the fact that these are all binding provisions in those treaties. It can be quite different reasons, such as political or technical. It doesn't matter. The obvious connection with the need to break the silence is that it is good, because it is about citizens' binding provisions, and I honestly do not see it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u9	I guess it doesn't rule out one thing. If there is a treaty that contains all binding provisions, the Court must know that in advance, so that it can at least form a balanced assessment of the way in which it intends to deal with the Convention. However, there may be many other reasons why silence can be broken. As far as I'm concerned, they're side by side. I would like to argue in favour of it, and that makes this proposal possible in practice, so that you, as a parliament, want to know when that type of provision is in it, so that you can choose how you want to deal with it. Moreover, that helps Parliament to keep itself sharp. Suppose Parliament passes a treaty silently, which the government has indicated that it does in its opinion contain all binding provisions. If this has an effect that is not politically desirable, the Chamber can no longer say that it knew nothing about it. I think it has a disciplined effect for both parliament and government. We all benefit from that. I think that the questions about the practice of breaking silence have been adequately answered. I think I have come to the answer of all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u10	I have another question that has not been answered. Mr Taverne said that it would be a good idea for Parliament to give its express approval when it comes to treaties that bind everyone. I agree with him. Perhaps it is a good thing to underline that it is a government's judgement, but that the judge could judge it differently. He could say that it is not generally binding after all, or on the contrary. I had also asked Mr Taverne for an answer to the question of how Parliament should weigh the government's judgement on the general binding of provisions. That is also a question for the Minister. What criteria are used? But perhaps Mr Taverne has an idea about that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u11	I'm sorry I didn't answer that question or didn't answer it. I am the first to recognize that the determination of the whether or not any bindingness of a provision is not easy. At least it's not always that. A number of factors to determine how this should be established have already been mentioned. Of course, it starts with the question of what the contracting parties intend to do. The case law also shows that its interpretation and interpretation ultimately come to the court and that, through the evolution of a provision, the judgment may change. I do not have the ambition or the illusion that the Chamber can once and for all determine whether or not a provision is binding, but it is an important building block for the courts when in practice he evaluates a provision on each one's commitment. Also in the written round, the question was asked as to what happens when the government and the Chamber find something else. Does either of them have the last word? This will be the subject of the political process, probably in both chambers. But even if the government and the Chamber completely agree, the judge can finally decide differently. I do think it would encourage the judge to motivate in detail and well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Taverne. I now turn to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u13	Madam President. I would like to thank Members for their input and their first-term questions and comments. As you know, the Constitution lays down that treaties are to be submitted to Parliament. The cabinet is therefore committed to involving Parliament intensively in treaties. There has actually been a kind of parliamentary practice with regard to that approval. On the basis of the criteria I set out in the Cabinet Notice of 4 July 2016, the government determines whether a treaty is submitted for approval by implied or explicit consent. Moreover, Parliament may also exchange views with the government during an implied procedure, by asking written questions or by means of a technical briefing. Mr Taverne's own-initiative proposal imposes on the government an increased obligation to provide information on the scope of those provisions. The initiator wants the government to give a preliminary opinion on whether the Treaty contains any binding provisions and, if so, which ones. The question was asked to me whether this would require an extra effort. Of course. The information obligation requires an additional effort from the government, both for the departments and for the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom. If this proposal for an initiative is adopted, we are going to carry out structural research into possible binding provisions in treaties, with the government, after the investigation, explicating its preliminary assessment, I would like to point out "preliminary assessment" in the explanatory memorandum to treaties. The additional information requirement of the initiative proposal fits well into the practice of approval and is thereby strengthened. As I indicated in my letter of 17 November 2016, I do not think that this effort will lead to a significantly increased workload. The examination of possible binding provisions builds on the research which we are already carrying out into the scope and content of Treaty provisions. This is already common practice in the current treaty practice. The initiative standardizes the results of the scope and content study in the approval documents of a Convention. As Mr De Graaf pointed out, the amendment of the legislative proposal reduces the workload and, in my view, outweighs the usefulness of the additional information for Parliament. A number of questions have been asked to me in connection with this initiative proposal, including whether the government is already considering during negotiations whether there are provisions linking each other. The answer is yes. An example of this from the recent past is the Social Security Convention with the Kingdom of Morocco, but I can give you many examples. All negotiators are well aware that treaties have a direct impact on citizens and that is what is being looked at very closely. Mr Schrijver asked me whether the Taverne initiative has added value compared to current practice. In the current practice of approval, explanations of treaties consider the scope of any binding provisions when the government deems them necessary. Mr Taverne's initiative obliges the Government, in any explanatory memorandum to a treaty, to apply any binding provisions. This means that any explanatory memorandum to a treaty will inform about the possible binding nature of any provisions, even if they are not. I believe that this can indeed strengthen the provision of information to Parliament. Is this different from regulating in a law? Mr Taverne's obligation to provide information should not necessarily be laid down by law. A commitment from me is sufficient in itself. However, I find the initiative sympathetic. I also understand that a commitment places extra emphasis on this, and I am positive about the regulation of the obligation to provide information in the law. Mr Schrijver asked me whether international law decisions with any binding provisions should also be covered by Mr Taverne's initiative. Decisions of an organisation governed by international law do not require the approval of Parliament. International organisations are given the power to take decisions in the Treaty establishing the European Community, which is always subject to parliamentary approval, and Article 93 of the Constitution obliges them to publish decisions of international organisations, which we naturally do if they contain any binding provisions. That is what is happening in the Tractors' magazine, including UN Security Council resolutions, for example. Decisions by organisations governed by international law may not fall within the scope of the initiative. Mr Schrijver also asked whether this was about the possible reduction of the role of international and European law in the Dutch legal order. I think that question was primarily addressed to Mr Taverne, who, in my view, also answered it. The government sees this proposal not as a step in this direction, but as a means of providing more information on the possible consequences of treaties, and this could benefit the judgment of Parliament and the courts. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked me how often treaties with any binding provisions are submitted for tacit approval. I do not have any figures on treaties with possibly any binding provisions, and therefore I cannot give them either. My ministry has a database that records legal facts. These are only dates, reserved declarations, Contracting Parties, type of approval, references to State Magazines, Tractation Magazines, Chambers, etc. The legislator's assessment of the binding nature of Treaty provisions, as has rightly been appointed by the members, is not a final judgment, but a preliminary judgment. Therefore, this judgment is not registered. It's not hard. After all, the final judgment remains with the judge. All the figures relating to the amount of treaties with any binding provisions cannot be hard figures, not even in the future. I can imagine that, when we look at this assessment later, we will look at this particular point explicitly. The summaries annexed to the Cabinet minutes and the Chambers attached to this own-initiative proposal show that an average of 35 treaties per year are submitted for tacit approval. Mr Taverne has also reported this. Some of them could contain any binding provisions. Treaties which may contain any binding provisions may at present be adopted tacitly. That's what this bill is about. Following the adoption of this proposal, a treaty will be submitted for express approval more often if it contains all binding provisions, as Mr Van Apeldoorn said earlier. That will have to be demonstrated in practice. It seems likely to me. After the evaluation in five years, we will be able to report on this. For the criteria for determining whether provisions are binding or not, I refer you to the cabinet note with your approval, Mr President, because it is a rather comprehensive story how best to do that. It also elaborates on the details of each commitment and its criteria. How should Parliament weigh the government's opinion on any possible binding provisions? That judgment, which we must realize, is based on the insights of that moment. This judgment and its parliamentary consideration do not prevent another judgment from being delivered by the judge. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether the current law offers sufficient opportunities for parliamentary treatment if sufficient members of the States-General so wish. The answer to that is, of course, yes. The silence can be broken. Written questions may also be put during the period of tacit approval. In addition, a technical briefing may be requested during the same period. This brings me to the end of the answer to the questions addressed to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u14	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his comprehensive answer, but one question has apparently slipped through, namely my question about Mr Taverne's statement that the government does not pay sufficient attention in negotiations to provisions which are binding on citizens. I specifically asked Mr Taverne for proof. I am going to repeat that question in the second term, but what is the Minister's assessment of that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u15	My apologies, I thought it was the first question I answered. I mentioned the example of the agreement with Morocco. Of course, the government is looking very specifically at provisions that connect everyone. That's what we do in all negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u16	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u17	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to both Mr Taverne and the Foreign Minister for the detailed reply. My interruption just now and the Minister's reply already indicated a little bit of my inconvenience with this bill. I have already indicated in the first term that my group will support this proposal in its own right, but my discomfort lies in the harsh wording and wording that the initiator is also working on in this Chamber. An example of this is the accusation to the government, this cabinet and previous Cabinets that the negotiations would seem to take too little account of whether there are any binding provisions in it. I don't think there's any evidence for that. I also think it is right that the Minister, though implicit, diplomatic and courteous, should refrain from doing so. I did say in the first period that one statement was nonsense, nonsense used by Mr Taverne. That is the motive, the assumption that Parliament is not doing its job properly if there is no explicit approval or if there is no obligation to provide information. I would once again ask the initiator: is there not a Parliament's own responsibility? Mr Taverne talked about the discipline of this information provision, but is there not also a responsibility of the parliament, certainly the House of Representatives, which has a large, extensive staff to assess the treaties offered for tacit approval itself, to check them themselves and not to be guided by the question of whether the government intends or comes up with something? Even without this legal obligation to provide information, Parliament could very well check whether treaties contain any binding provisions. The fact that this does not happen still does not relieve the individual groups and spokesmen of the task of looking at the treaties themselves and diving into them. Nor do I think that Parliament is not doing its job well. I have already said that it is a matter of weighing up whether a treaty actually needs a legislative procedure for its approval here. That consideration can have different motives. I would also like to invite Mr Taverne, as I did in the first term, to provide proof of his claim that the government is not paying enough attention to provisions that are binding on citizens. I conclude by saying that references to what Members of Parliament have said or have not said about recommendations from the Thomassen Committee do not make a great deal of impression here. The First Chamber has its own consideration to make. If it is different from what members of a party to which I feel related in the House of Representatives have said, then that proves once again the right of the First Chamber to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u18	Mr. Chairman. The debate shows that our words of thanks for Mr Taverne's initiative were in place, because it has given rise to a fascinating debate. I do not share his view that this is the solution to a very fundamental and fundamental problem. I also note that the thomassen committee was divided about it and did not really come out. Maybe that's one of the reasons why the government didn't follow up on it at the time. Nevertheless, my group considers it valuable to establish the government's existing practice of informing Parliament about any binding provisions in the Treaty Act. My question is whether Mr Taverne can actually count his blessings better by seeing this as a kind of codification of an existing practice. For the history of law, it is of course important to look at how it has been discussed in Parliament. At the same time, as I said in the case of interruption, we must not overestimate the importance of this. Often there are various and sometimes even many treaty parties. The first is the wording of the Convention, the subject matter of the Convention and the purpose of the Convention. That is entirely in accordance with the Vienna Convention. The final judgment remains with the courts, the national courts and sometimes also the international courts. Our intention was indeed to taste Mr Taverne's kidneys in order to determine where he was standing and certainly not to do that would not occur in my head to wash his ears. I was pleased that, in response to the questions raised by our group, he emerged as a modern, moderate monist, which fully endorses the influence of the international legal order on the Dutch legal order. That's how we know our fellow chamber member.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u19	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Taverne, the initiator, and the Minister for the detailed answer. The answer leaves few questions open on the part of my group. We agree with the initiator that this is a matter of principle. We also agree with other speakers who have said that this is not a fundamental and far-reaching change to the law, but this is without prejudice to the fact that this is a matter of principle. In the light of Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution, therefore, the importance of international law in our legal system, to which my group also attaches great importance, it would be a good thing, in our view, if Parliament were to approve treaties with all binding provisions, or not, expressly. This weakened proposal will help in this respect. It is a useful tool to increase parliamentary involvement. In our view, this does not reduce the role of international law in our legal system; we agree with the Minister. As far as our group is concerned, that is also a good thing. For the record, me and my group too are happy to confess to moderate, modern monism. So we have a consensus on that. With regard to the criteria on the basis of which the Government would reach its preliminary judgment whether provisions are binding or not, the Minister referred to a letter to the House of Representatives. I read that too. I must say, however, that its wording was rather abstract. I understand from the literature that this can be considered differently. There are, for example, scholars of law who actually believe that there are almost no provisions in international treaties that would not in any way bind everyone. Others would explain that less widely. I am therefore curious about the government's more precise criteria, but perhaps the government says that they cannot be given and that it should be considered on a case-by-case basis. That was actually my only remaining question. I can conclude by saying that I will give my group a positive opinion on this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u20	Mr. Chairman. This seems to be a debate between parties who all have moderate views on monist systems. I like to join this line. I would like to thank the initiator and the Minister for the detailed answer. In the debate you can actually look at this law in two ways. Or, in the words of the initiator, Mr Taverne, we are talking here about the key issue of democratic legitimacy. Or, from the point of view of Mr Schrijver, we are actually talking about codifying an existing legal practice and parliamentary treatment practice. My group is in the middle of this. We see, on the one hand, that the actual parliamentary process as it is now under way offers ample scope to raise the finger of every treaty before us from the Parliament and to say: we want to talk about this, because we see enough provisions in it. On the other hand, we also believe that it is important to support democratic legitimacy, particularly at this time of international treaties. All this makes my party stand in favour of this bill, not to put very big words on it, but to take that push in the back gratefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u21	I'm taking advantage of this interrupting microphone. I have no question of asking the honourable Member of GroenLinks. In order not to create any misunderstandings, I would like to add that my group, too, is confessing to moderate monism. Otherwise, it will remain a question mark over the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u22	If you don't mind me saying something, I wouldn't have expected otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u23	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for the second-term questions. I shall begin with Mr De Graaf's questions and remarks. Let me say first of all that it is clear that the views of the members of the House of Representatives, whatever group they belong to, are guiding those of this Chamber. It is by no means my intention to stir up resentment with Mr De Graaf. I have often looked for this in political parties, for a kind of consistency and agreement in opinions, in whichever Chamber its members are. Only that was the background to my comment. Mr De Graaf asked for further evidence and arguments for the argument that, in my view, the States-General, at least on our side, is not always doing its best when it comes to approving and treating treaties. It was my intention to say that it could at least be better. That does not mean that it always happens badly, on the contrary. But it can be even better than it already is. Maybe it's personal, maybe it's about my political movement, but if there's any way to improve something further, you shouldn't let that happen. I believe that my proposal can improve the procedure for dealing with treaties in Parliament and by Parliament. I do not necessarily need a heavy group of evidence to claim that things are going wrong now when I see that the structure can do a little better. As has already been said, the situation is now that treaties are being implicitly offered for approval. They can indeed be dealt with if we make use of the opportunity to break the silence. It's all true. Anything I suggest can be done. However, it would make Parliament's work much easier if this change were to take place. It requires a relatively small effort on the part of the government. He's doing all the negotiations. I assume that she is also thinking carefully about whether a treaty, to which she intends to bind the Netherlands, contains this type of provision. So why shouldn't the government just report it, so that the Chamber doesn't have to plow through those treaties every time to think about whether it wants to debate it? The own responsibility of the House of Representatives is thus addressed. Without abandoning the responsibility as we know it now, which we can already give substance to, the responsibility can be better fulfilled with this additional legal obligation to provide information on the part of the government. Hopefully, from another place, I'll look back with the members of this Chamber in five years to see if it's had any effect. I'm convinced, but practice will have to learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u24	Can I assume, now that Mr Taverne has closed the block of replies to my address, that he does not repeat his statement he made in the House of Representatives, which I have expressly asked to provide ground for, that the government does not pay sufficient attention in negotiations to any binding provision in this Chamber, and that it is off the table with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u25	I won't repeat her, but I can't really judge that very well. Of course, the way in which the government negotiates is largely absent from the Chamber. This has developed over the past decades. In a further past, it was not uncommon for negotiating delegations to include Members of Parliament. You can find something about whether that was wise, but that wasn't unusual. Negotiations often last for a number of years, often so long that they survive multiple Cabinets. In the end, a parliament is faced with the result that is presented, whether implicitly or not. It is therefore difficult to make a final assessment of this. As I have said, I will not repeat the statement, but I believe that the proposed amendment will at least help in this whole process. Who am I to further doubt the judgment of an eminent member of this Chamber, who has also been a member of the Chamber from which I come and who has also been a member of the Government, that it does not actually occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u26	Mr De Graaf is speechless.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u27	I do not have time for Mr Taverne to be a member of the House of Representatives. Maybe I can help him by giving him an example. It is a very important and perhaps rather poignant example: the so-called tobacco discouragement treaty, better known as the anti-smoking treaty. It contains all binding provisions, as we can see from the poles on the NS stations. Does Mr Taverne, with his wisdom of today, think that Parliament has not done its own work in the House of Representatives by not subjecting it to explicit approval and a plenary debate? Was he even part of the Chamber at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u28	That's a question of conscience. I have been a member of the Lower House since 2010. I am not ready when this treaty has been dealt with. With this example, however, Mr Schrijver does strike the nail on the head. It is an example where exactly this problem has arisen. The various judges who finally gave a ruling in that case constantly changed their views. In fact, I think that if Parliament had made a ruling on this, it would at least have been an additional handle that might have prevented it from moving from the locker to the judicial wall. Mr Schrijver noted no fundamental problem and saw in the proposal only a codification of existing practice. That is a statement by Mr Schrijver which I have no objection to. Personally, I think it is a little more than just a codification, because, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said in reply to previous questions, there will be a more active and probably more detailed explanation when this is incorporated into the Rijkswet. But I like to count my blessings. In the first term, I was nearly situated in the parts of the SGP by Mr Schrijver, so blessings are only in place here. The quality that has become so popular in this debate, that I would be a moderate modern monist, I take no offense. I think it is a great deal that I am called "modern" and "modern"! I like to count my blessings in that too. Mr Van Apeldoorn correctly stated that it was not fundamental, but in principle. That seems to me to be an excellent appreciation. It's just the way you look at it. But I think we all agree on it, I hope, that it is an additional improvement on the current system; each for his or her magical reasons. If the result has the effect we are aiming for, that is more than enough. I would like to thank Mr Lintmeijer for his comments in the second term and for choosing an intermediate category in qualifications about being a monist. In doing so, I have answered all the comments and questions. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his support and his colleagues in this legislative process. I've worked very pleasantly with him. I thank him very much for that! I would also like to pay tribute to my two collaborators, Mr Boon and Mr Hazenkamp. They have tried very hard to ensure that I have given some coherent answers here. Thanks and praises are also due to them when, hopefully, this bill reaches the final stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u29	Mr. Chairman. A single question has been asked to me about the criteria for each of the binding provisions and how the government handles them. I referred to the letter we sent earlier. These are provisions in treaties, i.e. agreements between states, which do not directly affect citizens. But it may be that this is the case in some cases. They then give citizens rights or impose obligations on them and can be invoked by them or against them without the intervention of the national legislator. Since the Constitutional Reforms of 1953 and 1956, these provisions have been regarded as "each binding provision." Pursuant to Article 93 of the Constitution, these provisions may be relied upon before a court if they have been published in advance in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 94 of the Constitution means that legal provisions should be excluded if they are contrary to any binding provisions in treaties. In order to qualify as "each one binding," Treaty provisions must be sufficiently clear according to case law and literature. There's already a bit of a problem with how you're going to do that exactly. That means that you really have to look on a case-by-case basis, and that is what the judge does, even in individual cases, whether the provision is concrete or specific enough for a private individual to derive and invoke rights or obligations from it before a court. It is also important that the provisions can be relied upon before the courts without transposition into national law or other intervention by the national legislator. Hence the term "direct action." Examples of such provisions are the rights of citizens laid down in human rights treaties but also in social security treaties. Mr Schrijver has mentioned a number of examples of this. So we are really dealing here with provisions that may have a major impact on our society or on the individual. It is a good thing that the legislator, the government and the parliament are firmly considering the scope of these Treaty provisions. That is why, in the light of the discussion we have had over the last few years, the government welcomes the completion, if I may put it this way, of the initiative proposal and also the importance that the government attaches to a good relationship between government and parliament to jointly shape that responsibility, this legislative proposal in the form it has now received. For my part, I would like to thank Mr Taverne for his contribution to strengthening the relationship between parliament and government when it comes to the adoption of treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u30	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-10.u31	Anybody want a note? That is not the case either. Then I would like to congratulate Mr Taverne from this place on the legislative proposal, his initiative that has been accepted. I am particularly pleased because something about 20 years ago Mr. Taverne was a student assistant with me. A long time ago! But that's how you see it, you can come up with a whole end when you've been student assistant to... and so on!
