ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The number of accidents at the workplace in our country is increasing. Last year, this figure rose by 14% to 2,549 people, 70 of whom lost their lives. The Social Affairs and Employment Inspectorate points out that many companies say, and I quote: if it is economical, we do not have time for occupational safety, and if it is economical we have no money for it. In other words, profit is more important than the safety of working people. The inspection should ensure this safety by checking the companies. But the chances of companies getting a visit are once every 30 years. Why? Because there is a structural shortage of inspectors. Yesterday, the chief inspector of the inspection stated that he has insufficient capacity and that the inspection is under severe pressure. Unfortunately, this is not news. The trade unions have been ringing the bell for years, and we have talked about this before in the Chamber. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that the shortage of capacity in the inspection cannot last a day. We're talking about people's lives here. In response to previous questions, the Minister said that this cabinet, the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, has decided, and I quote again, that the government should not grow and that therefore the number of inspectors cannot simply increase. Due to this dogma, the cabinet is doing far too little to increase the number of accidents in the workplace. I therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to take action now, not to wait any longer, but finally to do everything he can to put the inspection capacity in order immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The trend in the increase in the number of serious accidents is terrible, especially when you realize that last year 70 people died in an accident at work, while you just need to be able to do your job safely and healthily. The inspection shows that this trend has three causes: the growing economy, more flexibility in the labour market, so that people work much more with loose forces, and the fact that they work longer. This is also being investigated further. But it remains the case that there is a very important responsibility for companies and their employees to ensure that everyone is able to do their job in a healthy and safe way. The rule must be: you do it safely or you don't. As long as it is not, it remains incredibly important to take preventive measures, to ensure that people are aware of this and to comply with the legal requirements. The inspection is affected by the fact that due to the increased number of accidents there is less capacity for other points. I noticed that in 2016 in the letter that appeared following the Heerma c.s motion. (34475-XV, No. 9). I sent it to the Chamber in May of this year when we presented the new framework for inspection, which aims to achieve more with the capacity that exists in terms of healthy and safe working. Then it is not just about preventing accidents, but also about honest work and dealing with bogus structures and other very important elements for a decent labour market. That letter also indicates through a number of scenarios what you could achieve with more capacity. With 100 fte, for example, you could do much more to combat this type of accident. With 100 fte you could do much more to achieve a fair labour market. But it is really up to a new cabinet to decide. That's what the letter says. It is not the case that the number has remained the same in recent years. I have a whole list of the additions here. If Mr Özdil says here that there should actually be more, I agree wholeheartedly with him, but that is really up to a new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister is quite right when he says that there is a great responsibility for the employers. But let that be the problem. If these employers cannot be monitored for their responsibility, we are still not a step further. We were very happy when the minister put the rules first, but people when he recently made himself strong for teacher salaries. He was right to say that we are not going to wait for a formation; this is an urgent problem. I therefore call on the Minister to hide behind the rules, the courage he has shown before, on this subject too, which is literally about putting people's lives first, rather than the fact that he is just being asked to hide behind the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	It is good to walk by very briefly the additions of the past years. These additions have been made partly thanks to or sometimes on the initiative of the House of Representatives. We are talking about 36 FTEs under the social agreement to combat bogus structures. In the meantime, this has also been made structural. 13 FTEs have been added to tackle fake employment. A further 9 FTEs have been added to investigate the complex larger constructions. There are also 3 FTEs plus additional money to investigate labour market discrimination. 68 FTEs have been added in order to be able to investigate care frauds. In other words, despite the fact that we started under the guise of a considerable task which was still from Rutte I, capacity has always been added. Is that enough? No, but two things are very important. We have agreed with the Chamber that you should look not only at the number of inspectors but also at the way in which they work. Following the motion Heerma c.s. extensive research has been carried out into how a modern inspection could work risk-oriented and effectively. Then you can answer the question if you don't need any FTEs. That investigation was completed and presented to the Chamber in May. We must give the new cabinet a chance to make a choice. It may well be that I agree with Mr Özdil that it is time for additional capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	Surely it is not possible for the Minister to reason the urgency of the problem a little away because of the formation? He mentions a number of FTEs. That's good. Only how is it that yesterday's boss of the inspection literally said: we have a structural shortage of capacity that costs human lives? The Minister also just indicated that it might not be enough. I am glad that he agrees with me that more capacity is needed, but again, it is in the power of the Minister to put more pressure on that and not to say: I hide behind the negotiations and we are not going to do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	Let's keep quoting exactly. I'm sure the chief of the inspection will appreciate that, too. He did not say: we have a capacity problem that costs human lives. You'll see that's serious enough... an increase in the number of serious accidents and below that an increase of nineteen in the number of fatal accidents in 2016. We can see that this trend has not stopped, because the three causes, economic conditions, flexible labour market and longer working hours, are in full effect. He pointed out that the system of inspection work involved a great deal of capacity for accidents at work, which might affect other equally important issues. This is not the same as Mr Özdil has mentioned here. We very much agree on how urgent it is to work safely. This responsibility is present every day at every company where work is carried out. However, the fact that half of the companies still do not have a RI&E, a mandatory inventory of the risk assessment to ensure that people do their job safely, cannot be put off on how many inspectors there are. Even if there are ten times as many inspectors, companies are still obliged to ensure the safety of their people. Nothing's gonna change that. Yeah, now that things are getting better, I also think that inspection and supervisors should generally be given the means to do their job even better. It is partly also in the different use of these resources and partly in more manpower, but that does not alter the urgent problem that employers face. Maxime Verhagen was also very clear about the rotten apples in construction. This responsibility must remain there. We shouldn't confuse that with the responsibility here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	Finally, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	It seems like a bit of a repeat of moves. The Minister's right. Due to the lack of capacity, there is less control, which increases the number of accidents. This also means that more capacity is needed to deal with accidents. So it's kind of a vicious circle in that respect. If the Minister is not prepared to show the same courage as the teachers' salaries, then I would ask him to at least promise that he will talk to VNO-NCW to see what can be done now, without waiting for a government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	I gave three reasons for the increase in the number of accidents, not covered by the inspection capacity. If Mr Özdil summarises my words, he must take them into account. Yeah, I'm sure I'm willing, and those conversations are already going on, to talk to employers and employees about that. In recent years, we have also invested a lot in better organising safety at work and in what else you can do to reverse that trend. It is also a nightmare for employers that the number of accidents is so increasing. We must be able to combat this in a modern and rich country like the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	The Minister said so. We have a number of safeguards in the Netherlands, such as the Arbo catalogues and the RI&Es. The stories about the emergency aid show that there are quite a lot of victims from Eastern Europe in construction, due to communication problems. Does the Minister recognize and acknowledge that? We have no idea when there's going to be a cabinet. Does the Minister want to use the time he has left to go into good conversation with the polder to make sure that something really happens to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	Sure, we've also tightened the rules for clients. I do recognise the image that loose contracts and zero-hour contracts sometimes create language problems for migrant workers. The more important it is that responsibility for the employer, the client, remains to ensure a safe working environment. One of the causes I mentioned is that of this. We will have to fight that. It's incredibly important that people can do their jobs safely. I am willing to continue with employers and employees to investigate what extra can be done, even if we are in the autumn of 2017, to counter this. I also note that employers and employees are very motivated to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	The Labour Inspectorate must ensure a safe workplace, but the Director of the Labour Inspectorate indicates that this cannot be done now because there are too few staff; at a time when there are more deaths and more accidents at work. I do not understand why this minister is hiding behind the cabinet formation that is still going on and that he is not intervening. Is the Minister prepared, if necessary with the forming parties, to come forward with a proposal to increase capacity in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	Sure. In the May part of this year you can see how the capacity of the inspection has been built up and how the tasks can be carried out. In that piece there are also four scenarios for how you could do more. In the second scenario 100 FTEs are added, so you can do much more about accidents at work. In the third scenario, you add 100 FTEs, so you can do a lot more honest work. In scenario four, you actually do both. That has been brought to the attention of the forming parties and it has gone to the Chamber. Also in the discussion back then, the Chamber and Cabinet have exchanged views on a trend that is not new, but which we have seen since 2016, that it would be a good time to expand capacity. That's it. I do not think Mr Van Kent and I disagree at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you.
