ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u1	I received written answers from the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State to questions asked in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna start over. The next item is the second part of the IenW, Infrastructure and Water State budget. Yesterday we did part one, the first term of the Chamber. We're about to start with the first term of the cabinet. We have agreed that each group may be interrupted five times in this period. Everyone's gonna stick to that. We've got a couple of cubes. I assume the minister is going to tell us which cubes they are. That is more for the people at home, because here a photocopy has been distributed with the cubes on it. That's how far our service goes. After each block there is always the possibility of interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u3	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister. It will undoubtedly be followed later by the Secretary of State. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking Members of Parliament for their contribution in the first term. I'll start with a general introduction in a moment. Then I will divide the answer to the questions into five blocks. The first is 'roads', the second is 'road safety', the third is'smart mobility', the fourth is 'air transport' and the fifth is'sea and inland waterway transport'. Mr. Chairman. We have a nice week: on Monday the Water legislative consultation and yesterday and today the budget. We're gonna get in like this! I think it's great that I can work for mobility in the Netherlands and for our water state. IenW is a ministry of doers, a ministry of "kick in the ground" with an eye for the environment, because climate and space may be away from IenW, they are not away from our approach. I'd like to join Stientje... with "the Secretary of State," I must say of course. Ooh, mistake!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u5	A little formal, huh? A little formal today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u6	I am very excited to work together with the Secretary of State on this overall picture. Mr. Chairman. If I look through my eye hairs at the greatest challenge of the coming years, that is the growth of mobility. How do we prevent the Netherlands from closing? Our economy is running at full power and that is a great asset. But the result is that mobility is under pressure. The traffic jams become longer, the platforms fuller and the bike paths hectic and it takes more effort to get goods from A to B. Especially in and around the cities it gets stuck. That's why we invest extra in our infrastructure. We have been given a clear mandate in the coalition agreement. The National Market and Capacity Analysis indicates where it pinches. Names and numbers of the places where we have to invest in the coming years have been mentioned in the coalition agreement. Until 2030, at least 1,000 kilometres of lanes will be added. We have big and beautiful projects in the barrel. But in addition, we rejuvenate, renew and sustain our infrastructure. Many roads are approaching the end of their technical lifespan. This offers an opportunity to look at our road network with a new look. During renovations we make the roads fit for the future, for example by preparing them for self-driving transport and by making them more sustainable with LED lighting: renewing, rejuvenating and sustainable. We're also making smarter use of our roads. We're dealing with malfunctions and we're replacing and renovating where necessary. The latter sounds less sexy, but is at least as important to the flow. This cabinet is paying extra money for infrastructure. If you don't know better, you'd even think it's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u7	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u8	The Minister is still working on her general block and an introduction. Why don't we finish that before we interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u9	Is this even the introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u10	Here's the introduction. It's not a block yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u11	It looked like the block of "roads."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u12	Well, I may touch everything a little bit in the introduction, but the cube still has to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Van Raan is on fire, that's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u14	I've been warned. Mr. Chairman. Not everything can happen. The challenges are greater than the available budget. It is a continuous search for cheaper, smarter and more sustainable. We are committed to new technologies, high-quality traffic management, innovative forms of mobility and charging infrastructure. Mobility will eventually become a service in which the distinction between means of transport is blurred. A self-driving car that comes in front of you, is that a car, a taxi or a public transport? It doesn't really matter, because you just want to be safe and fast from A to B. How, is less interesting. That is why we are going to transform the Infrastructure Fund into a mobility fund. Until 2030, the money is divided between traditional modes of road, water and public transport. After that, mobility is central and no longer the modality. Innovations help the flow of traffic. They are also good for the environment and improve road safety. Also with the latter, road safety, we are working hard. Because the trend is negative, as you all said yesterday. The number of victims is increasing, and we must not allow that to happen. Traffic flows are growing, and that certainly applies to aviation. Healthy growth can only be in good balance with the environment, with an important voice for residents, I say immediately. Freight transport also faces considerable challenges in the coming years. It would be good if more cargo went to the water. We have powerful water connections and strong ports. And unlike on the roads, there is still room to grow. Mr. Chairman. I would like to add one more overarching theme. One of the greatest challenges of our time is to secure our ICTs. The Ministry of IenW and Rijkswaterstaat are together the guardians of many critical infrastructure in the Netherlands: drinking water, Schiphol, bridges, locks, nuclear power stations, the railway. Cybersecurity is very important for the whole economy. For keeping the Netherlands running, data connectivity must be guaranteed. That means data should be able to go from A to B undisturbed. In doing so, we must be sure that the data cannot be messed with along the way, so that the integrity of that data is guaranteed. This is also essential for safeguarding privacy. In order to achieve this, both prevention and monitoring as plan B, the contingency plans, must be in order. Mr. Chairman. Now I'd like to start with the first block, "road."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u15	That also means that a block has been completed, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u16	The introduction block is over, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u17	You can also do all ten of your interruptions now...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u18	You wish, Mr. Chairman. But thank you for the encouragement. Let's start with a reaction from A to B and how we do it. That's interesting. I disagree about this with the Minister, because it is of course interesting how we go from A to B. Because if we thought that might be less interesting, we may now have a very big climate problem. So how we go from A to B is definitely important. But that's not what my interruption is about. My interruption concerns the answer to the questions we have asked. What struck me in the answer thank you for that answer, by the way, is that there is no response to the general argument we made. So what is the Minister's position on our point that you cannot grow indefinitely in a limited planet? We have explicitly requested a reflection on this. Is the Minister aware of Kate Raworth's ideas in this regard? Because they're about unlimited growth on a limited planet. Could there be a reflection on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u19	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u20	In fact, in other words, I'm sorry, Chairman........................................................................................................................................................................................... That's a dead end. I'd like a reflection on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u21	Let me then respond in a very general way, because it is also a rather general question. You ask: do you realize that everything is related to everything? I did not mean to say that the modality in itself does not matter, because, of course, it is also about the consequences of what mode of transport is involved. I can tell you, I've just been to the SpaceXperience of André Kuipers. He had a very inspiring example for all those thousands of children in the room. He said: you are actually all astronauts, because we are all on that one planet Earth, in a universe where there are more stars than grains of sand on earth. That made all these kids feel right away: hey, we only have one earth. He also showed very nicely that on all those other planets you can't live with all of us, so we have to be very economical with that one planet we all travel around on astronauts. With that look, I'm looking at this wallet, too. I think that's a good general answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u22	A very general and good answer, but that does indeed mean that you agree with our statement that the current system has died and needs to change in this respect. Because going on like this means that the planet with all those sweet astronauts isn't gonna make it much longer. That is not our opinion, by the way, but the opinion of recently 15,000 scientists. So, again, do you share the view that we're on this planet with all those astronauts in a jammed system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u23	It is precisely in a portfolio of mobility that you should never stand still. We very much embrace all the innovative opportunities we have, because you can constantly develop and continue to learn. We will. We use asphalt where necessary, we use public transport where it can help and we invest in the bike. I'll get back to you all later. We're trying to be more sustainable. You have to try to make the best of it together in a combination of all those modalities that we have. I'll start by weighing the block. I told you, it's getting more and more crowded on the road. Especially the MPs Van Aalst and Dijkstra, but also many others, have called for attention. Mr Dijkstra insisted on reducing the congestion sample. In his speech, the word file monster came along so often that I got the feeling that it was almost a filli monster. He could have talked about it for a very long time, but it is a very justified plea. Last week the rush broke twice a record in rush hour. That's a bit because it's November. It is dark, hardly anyone is on vacation and it is often bad weather. But the economy is also going well again and that leads to more traffic. In addition, you've named it all.... is that hustle and bustle structural. The Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy predicts in the Mobility Image 2017 that traffic jams will continue to increase until 2022. And standing still costs money. All the reasons for me to speed up the road projects, because expanding the road network is helping enormously. The construction of additional lanes led to a 46% reduction in travel time loss between 2005 and 2016. So investing in it pays off. We are therefore going to work with the A4, A7 and A15 in the Randstad and with the roads to and from the south, east and north, the A1, A2, A12, A28 and A58. We have received a fine amount of money, but I would like to stress that it is still tight. The NMCA is in charge of this. We invest where there is the most profit for the traveller, where there is the most profit for the flow on the busiest roads. We will be the first to tackle the most profitable projects for which co-financing is available from the regions. We also continue to build projects such as the Ring Utrecht, the A16 Rotterdam, the Blankenburg connection and the A15. In addition, we are working on the 2020 File Approach. Rijkswaterstaat makes it easier to open peak lanes and with small modifications of the road improves the flow. By better informing the road user, we also make his route choices smarter and travel times more reliable. In addition to investments in infrastructure, innovations and new forms of mobility will help to keep the Netherlands accessible. I call truck platooning, the self-driving car and Mobility as a Service. I'd like to get back to that in my third block, smart mobility. Mr Van Aalst asked if I would be prepared to adapt the resources available for infrastructure to mobility needs. According to his party, the need lies with the car. I believe that all the modalities are important. This cabinet therefore focuses on catching up both for the roads and the railway and the waterways. The coalition agreement has agreed that until 2030 we will stick to the key roads, railways and waterways. In this way, we are working on the whole need for mobility. Ms Van Tongeren asked for smart plans for sustainable roads and for energy generation on roads. I can assure her that sustainability in infra-projects will be taken into account from the first phase. That's already happening in the MIRT study. In the case of procurement, CO reduction is also used and in the implementation, as many materials are reused as possible. We also pay a lot of attention to sustainable integration. Together with the ministries of EZK and BZK I research the possibilities of energy generation in infrastructure. The ambition is that the entire Rijkswaterstaat network will operate energy neutrally in 2030. Since 2012, for example, the Ramspol bridge between Kampen and Emmeloord has been energy neutral. The Sluis Eefde becomes energy neutral and we are working on the first energy neutral highway, the A6 near Almere. The A2, for example, has led lights since 2016 between Holendrecht and Maarssen. And there's more like that, of course. In doing so, we are trying to make a good contribution to the renewable energy objectives in the coalition agreement. Mr Von Martels asked about the distribution of infrastructure funds between shrinking regions and urban areas. I have just mentioned that we are basing the balance on the allocation of money on the bottlenecks of the NMCA, the ambitions of the government agreement and the willingness of local authorities to co-finance. At the beginning of December, I will speak with the Secretary of State in the Administrative Discuss MIRT about the accessibility via road, rail and water. In these discussions we are discussing the agenda for the coming years with the regional directors. As usual, I will inform you shortly before your own note-taking meeting MIRT about the results of these talks. Then we can discuss this with each other in the MIRT note-by-note meeting. Mr. Chairman. Let me say something about the PO's MIRT. It is understandable that the Chamber already wants to know exactly what concrete steps will be taken in the coming years. But I would ask you to be patient, to have this conversation with each other in the MIRT notary meeting and in the years to come. Given the scale of all ambitions, it remains necessary to make choices. I would like to look not only at accessibility, but also at how tasks can be tackled smarter and more sustainable. I also want these investments to contribute to the security of the networks. We do not yet have a balancing framework for the Mobility Fund. So it doesn't make sense to spend money already after 2030. Mr. Chairman. Mr Jetten asked me about my willingness to look first at smart solutions in the philosophy of the new mobility fund to be formed before using extra asphalt. The cabinet is committed to a smart and sustainable transport system. For example, the SmartwayZ programme on the A58 in Brabant takes smart mobility as its starting point and only adds asphalt when needed. However, this programme has also shown that smart measures are not yet sufficiently effective to replace asphalt solutions everywhere. So yes, I am willing to look at smart solutions as much as possible, but in the short and medium term it is still necessary to also increase the capacity of the road. I'll be on the freight. Mr Dijkstra asked about the facilities for truckers. He asked to look at possibilities of co-financing with private parties. The government is responsible for sufficient parking capacity for trucks along the highways for short rest breaks. Together with market players we constantly look at whether and, if so, where private truck parkings can be built. We have facilitated this process for a number of years. Examples of recently opened secure private truck parkings are Hazeldonk, Maasvlakte Plaza and James Cookweg in Venlo. And soon a truck park will open in Duiven. However, it remains a challenge. Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Jetten both had questions about the freight tax. I understand the desire to introduce the freight tax, the Maut, as soon as possible. The Cabinet wants that, too. However, careful implementation takes at least five years. This is also the experience in other countries, as recently in Belgium. We need a new law, and it takes time. In the coming period, I will be working with Secretary of State Snel van Financiën to develop the starting points for the levy. Think of the basic principles of the system, the legal framework, the tariffs and the way in which implementation should be organised. In doing so, and in order to save time, I will make the most of the experiences of neighbouring countries. I can send you the roadmap for the introduction in early 2018. Mr Van Dijk asked about the capacity of the ILT in relation to international drivers and the crowds in parking spaces. I too am concerned about the hustle and bustle in some parking spaces. Especially along the freight corridors for road transport and near the main ports, it is very busy. This is due, among other things, to an increasing proportion of foreign drivers and policies in our neighbouring countries, such as the prohibition in Germany and Belgium to spend the normal weekly rest in the truck cabin. The stay in the truck cabin for the normal weekly rest is not currently prohibited in the Netherlands. That is not the case either. There is uncertainty as to whether the European rules provide the right basis for this. So-called questions for a preliminary ruling have now been asked to the Court of Justice in order to clarify this, so that we can apply the rules in all EU countries in the same way. This is also part of the Mobility Package. Although a truck cabin is usually comfortable enough to stay overnight, provided there are sufficient facilities in the parking lot, I do not want to impose any additional burden on the care facilities in the Netherlands as a result of a ban in the surrounding countries. It is important that we achieve a level playing field within Europe and strengthen the internal market. With regard to the level playing field, the Netherlands supports a ban on staying in the truck cabin during the weekly rest period. Together with my colleague in office of SZW, I also reported this to your Chamber on 2 November. The ILT maintains risk-oriented and deploys inspectors where it has the most societal impact. Maintaining working and rest periods in freight transport is one of the priorities. Those were the questions so far about the "road" block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u24	I would like to thank the Minister for his answer on the roads. You mentioned a number of A's, the A4, the A15, the A7 and the missing links; the whole zipper. Now we have the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy, which can very well calculate what kind of scenarios there are: high and low scenarios. My question is what would be a sort of dot on the horizon, a kind of end point in 2030. Then where are we with the traffic sample? Can you also indicate where we will be in 2022, in the somewhat shorter period, i.e. five years from now? How many heads of that file monster did we cut off?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u25	To predict the future, you need a glass ball. I don't have one. Neither does the KiM, because of course that is very dependent on the development of economic growth. But we will do everything in our power to try, of course, to tackle this traffic monster, as you always call it. The word "file monster" almost brings me to Cookie Monster, but of course I can't hijack the files like a Cookie Monster or a pacman anywhere on the map. That'd be great. But we are going to put all hands on deck and use all the possibilities of all modes to keep the Netherlands moving and thus to turn off as many heads of the file monster as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u26	That's good, because it's just an ugly thing that hangs over the Randstad in particular, but also over certain regions. It's just suffocating for our economy. We have that institute that has very good scenarios. Now imagine we've done all the A's you just mentioned and they're in my head, too. So where are we in five years or ten years from now? I'm curious about that. Is something like this easy to understand, say it's hard to imagine when we've made all these investments? Of course, we have not defeated the file monster, but I hope that we have really reduced it a lot and that we have actually substantially solved a number of problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u27	I share that hope with you, but that will also depend on how the economic situation develops. If we continue to grow, mobility needs will continue to grow. We have to be a little careful about that. We should not give too much hope that during this cabinet period we are going to beat the traffic monster, because that is simply not realistic. We have seen that extra asphalt in recent years has led to 46% reduction in travel time loss. It is therefore very worthwhile to invest in it, but we cannot expect it to be completely resolved. That's not realistic either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u28	I'd like to ask the Minister a question about the NMCA. It appears that future investments depend only on the NMCA and that the capacity problems are now leading. I believe that sustainability, viability and security should also be part of future investment. It is well known that safety on certain roads is at stake. If certain roads are not a priority on the NMCA list, you are prepared to allow aspects such as safety and viability to play a role in the consideration of whether or not the investments take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u29	Your Chamber has instructed the Cabinet in the coalition agreement. It states that the National Market and Capacity Analysis is leading. It also looks at co-financing, but, of course, it also includes projects that are specifically related to road safety. So it's a guide for us and we're going to stick to it, but we're obviously trying to link as many things as possible to it. You have rightly said that road safety is not for nothing a spearhead in the same coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u30	A lot is said: I am in traffic. No, you're the traffic jam. So to the VVD: beat the file monster in yourself. It's not something outside of yourself. If you're in traffic, you're part of that monster yourself. To the Minister the next question. In the capacity analysis you see that more asphalt leads to people leaving home a little bit later and that a lot of the space created by new asphalt is taken by people who leave home a little later and who then leave home a little earlier when the weather gets more busy. However, this minister continues to create an extra 1,000 kilometres of traffic, actually just to make sure that people can leave home a little later and then form a traffic jam with all of them. Isn't it time to really look at another way of using our roads and our transport system instead of just thinking: well, we now have enough money for an extra 1,000 kilometers; let's do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u31	I think we've just taken a path to that other system. Of course, people must have an alternative. In many cases, people have no choice but to go by car. Moreover, my colleague, the Secretary of State, is also struggling with a problem of great hustle and bustle, because it is not only stuck on the roads, but also on the platforms people are standing firmly against each other and it is becoming more and more crowded. Even on bicycle paths you hear reports that people prefer to choose a different means of transport because they end up in a bicycle file. That is why this cabinet really chooses to make maximum use of all possibilities in all modalities. The roads are certainly an important aspect of this, but we are also very much looking at all the other modalities. We are also looking at how to get freight from the road to the water. We are looking at new innovative concepts, of which I mentioned the example platooning. We're doing everything we can to do everything we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u32	I am pleased with a minister who says: we are going to try to design roads more sustainable and use them. I am going to assume solar energy for signs, locks and dikes. That's fantastic. I think we all know that you can continue to build more asphalt and rail, making it more crowded again, but that at some point up to 20% of all cars drive. There's no asphalt against that. So we really need a new beginning, new Minister, really need a different vision of transport than that of "bit track, little asphalt."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u33	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u34	Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with the Chamber and think about it during this period of government, so that we can really come up with a different system and a different vision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u35	I think that we have already made a very good start on this in the government agreement, by working from a mobility fund after 2030. In my introduction, I indicated that the difference between the modalities is increasingly fading. It's becoming more and more hybrid. So you have to look at mobility and not specifically by modality. But on the other hand we know that we also just need new pieces of asphalt. It is absolutely not the intention of this cabinet to asphalt the Netherlands completely. We have maintained the existing relationships. This means that there is also a very important part of the money going to public transport and to the waterways. By the way, we have already made a number of commitments up to 2030. So a lot of ways to do things differently, you don't. But we look explicitly at all the possibilities we have with innovative concepts. So it is certainly not an over-representation in the long term of just more asphalt. We're looking at missing links, we're looking at broadening, we're really looking at where the asphalt is still needed. What I also said in Mr Jetten's reply: if it is not necessary, we are certainly not going to do it, but it is still really necessary in a number of places.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u36	I'm starting to get a little anxious. I think I'll leave a light on tonight and have another look under my bed, because maybe the traffic sample is there. It's gonna be a separate picture, but I don't want to talk about that. I'd like to talk about the freight traffic and the parking spaces. I listened very carefully to the Minister. In my view, we share the concerns about the nuisance that we are now seeing, particularly in the border regions. Not only on crowded parking spaces, but also in residential areas are foreign trucks resting. Why? Because Belgium and Germany maintain on the weekend rest. Quite apart from the question of whether it is European or not, why are we not doing a little naughty in the Netherlands and are we going to maintain it without waiting for a European ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u37	I don't feel that much for a call to be naughty. In the Netherlands, of course, we simply have the attitude of respecting the law. So do we in this case. We are just waiting to see what happens in that judgment of the Court of Justice. However, I have indicated that this cabinet, if other countries continue to do so, will choose to support it. Although we believe that staying overnight with good facilities would be a good option in the lorries, I do not want to end up in the situation that all these lorries are on our roads, because it is not allowed in the neighbouring countries. In Germany they are not allowed to drive on Sundays. We should not all draw that extra to us. It is precisely in the context of the European level playing field that we will join other countries if this choice is final. Of course, this applies widely to all appointments in the Mobility Package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u38	Look, it's not a hypothetical situation. It's going on now, it's actually been going on for a couple of years now that trucks are coming to the Netherlands to rest here on weekends with all the inconvenience that this entails. I really call on the Minister not to wait for a European measure, for a Mobility Package, which is very much needed, but to actively maintain it. Those trucks will be here every weekend. I don't think we should wait, but we should really pick this up and move fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u39	The Dutch law does not provide a basis for enforcement in this area. Of course, we have been working very hard for a number of years to see what we can do to support sufficient parking facilities. We'll see what the possibilities are. I'm sure we'll continue with that. I hope that the Court of Justice will clarify this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u40	I am glad to hear that the Netherlands is going to join the countries that are already maintaining, which have already expressed their views on the fact that weekend rest in the cabin is not desirable. That vision shares the SP, so we end up with the same thing, only for other reasons. We're just worried. I agree with Mr Van Dijk that we need to maintain immediately, but for that we need to look at the capacity of the ILT. I hear the minister say the cabinet wants to inspect risk-driven. Is the Minister not concerned about the number of trucks compared to the capacity of the ILT? Is it possible to maintain it properly? According to the Minister, do we not need more capacity at the ILT?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u41	Let me begin with your first remark. You can only maintain that if there is a legal basis for it. Your predecessor, Mrs Karabulut, asked questions about this at the time. It's been figured out. There's been a motion on it, but it doesn't seem to be possible. Does the ILT have sufficient capacity? The ILT has a number of priority projects and this is one of them. The ILT explicitly focuses on monitoring the rest and driving times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u42	Thanks for the answer, but it doesn't reassure me. In recent months we have been told, also by truck drivers themselves, that the rest spots along the highways are full of trucks and drivers coming from other countries to spend their weekend rest here, because it is possible here. You're from Brabant, and I'm sure you've seen it yourself. If we let go of that and look at the enforcement of cabotage, driving and rest periods and all kinds of other aspects, we see insufficient enforcement. We get these signals and the drivers say so themselves. As far as we are concerned, the risk-based inspection or inspection is not enough. So what are you going to do to make sure that risk-driven or non-sustainable and whatever you want to call it is sufficiently inspected to prevent this kind of scenes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u43	Well, the success of enforcement is not necessarily one-on-one depending on the number of inspectors that will look on the spot. Of course, a lot is also being done with reading equipment. All kinds of data can be analyzed and so it can also be done in more modern ways. It's not always just that inspector on the scene. But again, it is a priority of the ILT. They're working on it, but if there's a big problem, you have to do a lot about it. And they will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u44	I heard the Minister come back to the monster in a funny way, but that is, of course, absurd. It is Rutte II and Kunduz who created this monster. You've made sure we're all fixed now. 6.4 billion have saved Rutte II and Kunduz on this story in the past period. You will then come back with 2 billion, knowing that you need 1 billion per year in structural terms. A number of fantastic organisations have joined together in the Mobility Alliance and have also informed you of this. And then you don't take them seriously! Why don't you take these people seriously and just spend 1 billion structuralally on our infrastructure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u45	For a moment, I thought you were going to say that we were responsible for these traffic jams because we got the economy back on track, but you would not mention that. But of course that is an important cause, much more than the cuts you are referring to. You say that we do not take the Mobility Alliance seriously, but we certainly do. I have announced that we are already working on a congestion approach for 2020, taking all these ideas and the commitment of all those partners in the Mobility Alliance very seriously. That is what you will see when you are sent to the Chamber. We are taking over a great deal in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u46	The Minister knows better than anyone that the Mobility Agenda has laid down a plan that clearly shows that we need at least 1 billion per year in structural terms to solve the bottlenecks and not to be fixed by 2030. This minister comes with a tip of 100 million in structural terms. Then how are you going to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u47	It's not a $100 million tip. Call that a tip! Of course, we already have 2 billion extra and that is not a small beer. I mentioned it: it's not enough, because you always have more wishes. You always want to do more projects and that's why we have to make smart and sharp choices. But I think that the Secretary of State and I are very happy with these additional resources, because we can really do a lot with this. The list of projects mentioned in the coalition agreement is a very respectably long list. When I see what we all have for ambitions in other areas, I think we can get to grips with that for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u48	A second interruption, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u49	A second interruption? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u50	A second question, Mr President, on the transport sector. I hear the Minister say something about a level playing field from road to water. Our transport sector has been struggling in recent years. Do you mean, from road to water, you're going to import a freight tax like hell? Are you really going to hurt these people so badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u51	No, it has nothing to do with that. There are also a lot of transport companies that have a branch dealing with water or rail transport. In the time that I was still a deputy in Brabant, Schuttevaer had these beautiful stress squeeze boats with the text: here is a traffic jam of 100 trucks. I think that's a fantastic example of what multimodal transport can do. That has no relationship whatsoever with the point that it would be annoying for the transport sector. I was at a TLN conference last Saturday and I heard, in a very big plea, that people fear a shortage of drivers because the sector is really going well again. It is not for nothing that there are more traffic jams again, because some of them are caused by freight transport. So I think it is better to think with them how we can solve this more sustainable, smarter and more effectively, for example with platooning, than to say that they should, above all, stay on the road and not go to the water.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u52	I would have expected such an answer from this minister, in particular that last part and that sustainability story. The transport sector has been ruined in recent years. We've brought all of Eastern Europe here. Our sector has been taken over. Our mainports see their competitiveness disappear. It is about maintaining our competitive position towards the rest of Europe, and all this minister is doing is putting in place a heavy freight tax for our transport sector. You do know who's gonna pay for that, don't you? This is being passed on to the people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u53	I do not know where you are getting this from, because the coalition agreement makes it very clear that the revenue from that freight tax is being used to reduce the tax on motor vehicles. They have no objection to that, I can tell you that the rest of the money is being used for innovation in their own sector. And do you know what the fun of that is? Not only the Dutch transporters pay that, but also the foreign companies that drive our roads here. They also pay for this, to the Dutch innovation. So I really don't hate it as much as you imagine it. Then I'd like to start with the road safety block. The importance of road safety is evident. Everyone in the Netherlands wants to move around in a comfortable way and come home in one piece. In a densely populated country like the Netherlands, that's quite a job. We were on the right track. Since the beginning of this century, the number of road deaths has been halved, but in recent years the number of accidents has increased, especially in vulnerable groups such as older people and cyclists, especially on local and regional roads. We can't let that happen. We have to reverse that negative trend. The easy measures are no longer in place. I am therefore extremely pleased that so many parties are thinking along with us. As stated in the coalition agreement, I will work together with organisations and provinces and municipalities on the manifesto 'Transport safety: a national priority'. We are also working on a new strategic road safety plan. We're setting a new course. On the basis of data and detailed risk analyses, we are going to take measures where the risks are greatest and where measures have the most impact. Together with my colleague from Justice and Security, I am also working on the smartphone in traffic on many fronts. The smartphone is a big concern. Every day we see swinging bikes and motorists. The objective is clear: to reduce the number of road casualties. Mr Dijkstra, Mrs Van Tongeren, Mr von Martels and Mr Jetten, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Brenk have all raised this issue of using the smartphone in traffic. Mr Dijkstra called for the bill to include reckless driving in the JenV Ministry's targeted enforcement and sanctioning. My colleague from Justice and Security is working on a bill to indeed increase the penalties for reckless behaviour in traffic. This bill will include proposals to increase the penalty ceiling for a number of offences and to clarify the concept of "recklessness." I will pass on to the Minister of Justice and Security the requests made by the Chamber on penalties for using mobile telephony in traffic and I will ask him to take this into account when drafting the legislative proposal. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether it would be better to use technology to prevent appende behind the wheel. She also asked me to start with our own drivers. To avoid distraction through the smartphone, I'm gonna put it on two tracks. The first track is a new campaign. It will start in the course of 2018. The second track is challenging market players such as producers and employers to take steps. There are plenty of technical gadgets for sale that make sure you can't tap or text as soon as you start the car. Of course, that's nice, but the important thing is that people are going to use those smart gadgets. In September, the Ministry concluded a covenant with 43 parties on diversion in traffic. The telecoms sector was involved, as were employers. They can make arrangements with their staff. I think it is a good idea for Mrs Van Tongeren to make technical arrangements for drivers within our ministry not to be able to append while driving. I am also going to work on this, because I agree with her: good example is a good example. In addition, insurers can play an important role by rewarding good behavior. Mrs Van Brenk asks how I am going to strengthen enforcement and whether the risks of appendecides behind the wheel are being taken into account in the training. In the June 2017 plan for traffic enforcement in relation to infrastructure and information, JenV's Minister looks extensively at actions to increase the chances of catching up. This plan also sets out the priorities of the Traffic Teams. Distraction, including the use of the phone, is one of the priorities. The ban on appende behind the wheel will be dealt with in the driving test. It is important that driving schools continue to pay attention to this. Mrs Van Brenk also noted that my predecessor announced that she would ban the fitting of bicycles. She asks when the proposal will come to the Chamber. We have done several studies to clarify the relationship between the use of smartphones on the bike and accidents. At the moment we are still studying them, but I can undertake to send you a letter prior to the AO of 14 December in which we will inform you about the steps we are going to take. Mrs Van Tongeren has also generally called for more attention to be paid to traffic rules. She mentioned the Swedish model. It first identifies where the most serious risks are, and that is what the measures are aimed at. This is exactly the direction of our new Strategic Road Safety Plan: to identify risks in advance and to take preventive measures. Mr von Martels I see that he was just about to run away and asked how the Strategic Plan on Road Safety relates to the manifest road safety of the social partners and the loose agreements in the government agreement to, for example, maintain smart and establish N-roads safely. Over the past year, we have started working with other governments and social partners to draw up this new Strategic Road Safety Plan. The cabinet has also embraced the manifest road safety of the social partners. The actions mentioned therein form an important basis for this new strategy. I mentioned all the innovations, but also the behavior, safe infrastructure, improving registration and increasing the chance of getting caught will come back. I expect to be able to send the Road Safety Strategic Plan to your Chamber by the end of 2018. In this plan, we examine with parties where there are the greatest risks, so that we can take targeted action on this. This applies to all roads: national roads, provincial roads and municipal roads. For the safe road layout of N-roads, provinces and Empire will make plans together. I will keep the Chamber informed of developments every year. Soon you will receive a letter from me for the general consultation on road safety. I will also address the accident figures for 2016 and will also describe my approach. That will be a combination of behavior, technique and regulation. Mrs Van Brenk asked if I would be prepared to draw up clear criteria for the immediate suspension of driving licences in order to avoid arbitrariness. I can assure you that there is no arbitrariness. The CBR can only suspend the validity of a driving licence in cases specifically listed in the ministerial regime. One of these cases is that there are clear indications that the person concerned is suffering from a condition which makes him mentally or physically ill or suffers from severe psychiatric problems. In case of doubt, a medical expert must confirm that. Mr Bishop asked if I wanted to work on a road safety administrative agreement. I just mentioned all the Strategic Road Safety Plan we're making, along with VNG, IPO and the JenV Ministry. Other parties such as the ANWB, SWOV, the Fietsersbond and Safe Traffic Nederland are also participating. We also involve IPO and VNG, precisely because many victims fall on provincial and municipal roads. I think it is important that these parties are involved and commit themselves to the strategic plan. It goes much further than just the administrative partners. Which form is most appropriate, whether we should call it an administrative agreement or something else, I would like to look at the results. Mr Bishop also asked whether the cabinet would ensure more standing and more alcohol controls and whether I would urge my colleague from the Ministry of Justice and Security to do so. In the June 2017 plan for traffic enforcement in relation to infrastructure and information, the Minister of Justice and Security will elaborate on the actions to increase the number of standing positions. In January of this year, the Minister of JenV informed the Chamber that the police department has decided to step up traffic enforcement. I also think that's a good signal. Maintaining alcohol consumption in traffic is and remains one of the priorities. That was the set of questions about this block, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u55	Yesterday we were talking very much about road safety and specifically the appendictions in traffic. I am pleased that the Minister is in consultation with her colleague from the Justice Department. Can we get the appetizer right away under reckless driving?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u56	On the contrary, we will have to discuss this with our colleagues in the field of justice and security, because then you will find the legal description of the term'reckless' and whether this will fall within the scope of the directive. I think we generally agree very quickly with each other that it is reckless behaviour. But whether that is legally feasible should really be left to JenV's colleagues because it has to fit in with their legislation. I would like to consult with them and I would like them to look very closely at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u57	It is, of course, a combination of prevention, which the Minister mentioned, of enforcement, which she also mentioned and, as far as we are concerned, of sanctioning. When I listen to what is going on and how often a smartphone is used in traffic with a fatal accident, I think we should set the social standard here that simply cannot be. I also think that we should equate this with other things that apply to reckless driving. I'd like you, as the cause of a fatal accident, not to be able to get away with community service. I don't think you should ever be able to get behind the wheel in the event of recidivism, which is completely serious. Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u58	I think we share those feelings and we want to tackle the apping and use of the smartphone behind the wheel. It's all about how you get that properly incorporated into that bill. I would very much like to work for this in the contacts with JenV's colleagues, but we will have to leave it to them to decide exactly how to incorporate it into the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u59	Then I'm glad we switched this. It must, of course, be legally sustainable. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u60	Thank you. This was your third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u61	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for a number of very nice promises she has made to this Chamber. A lot of suggestions have come from the Chamber. I'm glad the Minister is working on that right away. At the same time, especially when I read the written answer, I am somewhat disappointed by two points. The first is the timing of the strategic plan. I think it's a bit old-fashioned to say that if the industry organisations together with the municipalities, the D.A. and the police already have a manifesto in place, we're going to make a strategic plan and that's what you'll get at the end of 2018. I do not think that is appropriate to this subject and to the urgency that we all feel. I just want to challenge the Minister to say that we are doing that strategic plan very thinly, you will get that in the spring and we are just going to keep updating that strategic plan over the next four years. Then it becomes more of an action agenda that we engage with each other. I would like to challenge the Minister to do so. My second point concerns the registration of accidents. I understand the Minister's reply is that, of course, she will never be able to record 100% of what happened. But then she also says: registration can lead to an understanding of the location, but does not give an insight into the real cause of accidents. We're missing a huge opportunity there, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u63	If we do not investigate the causes better, we will not be able to work with them. You also have a motion from Belhaj to make, and I would ask you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u64	Your fifth point, yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u65	The strategic plan was the first point you asked about, Mr. Jetten. You asked me if you can't do that sooner. I would just like to take a moment not just to come up with a plan again, with a vision. The way I explain "plan" is really filled with actions. What are we going to do and in what time frame? It will really not be a list of what the alliance has already written down by the end of 2018. No, we're really gonna show you what we're gonna do with it. Your second point was the registration of accidents. I think we share that and we all need to know as precisely as possible why accidents happen. It is only in practice incredibly complicated to get that information. Let me give you one example. If there is a fatal accident somewhere where alcohol or drugs are involved, privacy plays a role in getting the information. So you often don't know that. If someone dies in a hospital a few days later, it is not always brought back to the place and exactly how the accident happened. So I very much share with you the desire to optimise this as well as possible, but we also need to realise that it is not an easy task to do this very precisely. But I certainly share the ambition to look at where we can improve that. In that sense, I am also pleased that the police are paying more attention to it and to see how we can get it on the highest possible level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u66	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I assume that if she further elaborates the registration, she will also implement the Belhaj motion. But the answer now reassures me more than the written answer. Finally, Mr President. The Minister has just announced that he will launch a major campaign on the use of telephones in traffic. That is what I see as the first action in the strategic plan and I hope that we will see more of these concrete plans in the course of 2018 before the broad agenda comes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u67	It's definitely not gonna be like we're not doing anything until the plan gets here. We're just getting to work fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u68	I kind of shared the disappointment. The general direction is good. But we've had a previous campaign, a little driver isn't distracted, also along with the government. They included companies such as Esso, BP, Shell, Allsecur, the Gasunie, EVO and Tata Steel. They would all, all the people who were driving in working hours, stop holding their phones in their hands. There has not been much of that, if the analysis is that the number of accidents due to these phones is increasing. I am glad that the drivers of the ministries are working on the technique to stop that. But that too is one thing that is supported and that is relatively easy to implement. So you don't have the problem with the burden of proof in an accident. Once you've set that up, you can see on the phone that it just can't be apprehended. I'm calling that whole nasty business of Yannick, where they looked into whether or not it was, if you just as a citizen don't want to, you can have one of those unneeded apps in your car with a little bug in it and then it's done. It doesn't have to be a year before, for example, the Minister talks with the sector about this. Two people die a day in traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u69	It's not like we're gonna do one thing and leave the other. The example you mention about the model behaviour of drivers is one thing. It is also always important to launch a good campaign. On the contrary, Mr Dijkstra wants to focus on the legislative process. It will be a question of behavior, technique and rules. We will all have to make the most of it where we can to make sure together that it is literally something that no one wants to do anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u70	We also have metro drivers, bus drivers and train drivers. There are a lot of people employed at JenV and other departments. A behavioral influence technique requires a very long breath. Are these leaders prepared to engage more easily with all these organisations to see if the technical solution is not much faster, better and sufficient? It is also better for the person himself: you can never be wrongly accused of appende behind the wheel, because you can just see that you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u71	Then I'm repeating myself. I will be happy to draw attention to it at the organization I come into contact with. It is about and trying to influence that behavior, however difficult it is, and to set clear rules and to use technology, as you suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u72	I would like to respond to the written answer to our proposal to introduce a course and a certificate for the scooter. Unfortunately, the Minister did not understand our proposal. We do not want to impose any serious requirements or thresholds, as she suggests. We want to promote the safety of users themselves and of co-road users. As far as we are concerned, there is nothing crazy about this and it is not enough. In addition, and I think it is important to say this, we find the answer as formulated by the Minister stigmatizing. Actually, she says: we don't make demands, because people are already having a hard time and that we make things harder. As far as we are concerned, that is not an argument. The most important thing is that people know how to use their scooter in a safe and proper way. That's the point. That's exactly how you help them stay actively mobile, and in a safe way. These people are simply full-fledged road users and I also believe that the Minister should treat them as such. The Minister also talks about SWOV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u73	Are you heading for a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u74	SWOV is doing an in-depth study. How deep is deep? Very deep; hiding since 2015, it seems. There was a commitment before the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u75	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u76	Now it's mid-2018. We want an exact date. When is this study coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u77	Very good. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u78	I wasn't finished, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u79	No, I didn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u80	There was also a question about the safety around mirrors. The Minister won't come back to that. And she's just responding to the criteria of the CBR. We're really getting different signals. We are getting signals that these experts will not be involved...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u81	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u82	...and that it's random. I would like to ask the Minister again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u83	Very good. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mrs Van Brenk says that we stigmatize the users of the scooters. I think it's the opposite. We show that we let them take their own responsibility, just like any other traffic participant. There are already many opportunities for courses on how to deal with a scootmobile. That's totally fine. If people need it, we very much welcome that they can make use of it. I understood Mrs Van Brenn's proposal as follows. Mrs Van Brenk says it's not all that hard, but she suggests that people should get a certificate. In fact, after that they have to go back again and again for a refreshing course. I find that rather incriminating. Whether all this is necessary, let me also partly depend on that research, which is indeed a deep investigation, on what exactly is going on with those scooters in our traffic. Where are the problems? What exactly is that about? If we have a thorough investigation of that, I might also be able to answer the question of exactly what is happening with those mirrors and what does it do for safety. I can't answer that from the loose wrist. I really want to discuss that with you in conjunction with that investigation. Mrs Van Brenk mentioned the example of the CBR. She hears other sounds in the sense that there would be randomness with the CBR. I have not yet seen any evidence of this, so I simply trust that the CBR will respect the rules we have set with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u85	I will not repeat the answer, but it is certainly stigmatizing. Anyway, that's a difference of opinion. But I really want to hear a date. "Medio 2018" sounds very far. That could be June. That could be July. Can't we do that in the first quarter? I suppose they've really gotten along since 2015. Why does it take so long? A date, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u86	If it could have been done in the first quarter, we would have indicated it. It says "medio 2018." I really can't set a loose date on this. You will really have to do with that, because more specifically I cannot plan it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u87	You're not a client?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u88	Yes, but that is not exactly on a date: on Friday afternoon at 23 p.m. the report should be there. We're not that tight. Then I'll move on to the smart mobility block. I started my story today with my main ambition: how do we keep the Netherlands accessible? Investment in infrastructure is only part of the story. We will also have to talk about innovation and smart mobility. New techniques can help to keep the Netherlands moving, but also to reduce CO emissions from traffic and improve road safety. At present, more than 90% of accidents are caused by human error. I have high expectations of the analysis of the increasing flow of data. It brings us smarter travel and route advice, and new mobility and sub-concepts. I also see great potential in the new generation of vehicles, which is becoming increasingly self-driving. Already, some cars can automatically brake when they are at risk of driving on the back of a traffic jam. They can also keep you within the lines. The technique is already here. In early 2018 we will start the public-private project Talking Traffic with cars equipped with real-time information about incidents on our own route, so that drivers can respond faster and safer to traffic situations. In logistics is already tested with truck platooning, where two or more trucks are connected via Wi-Fi. This allows them to drive safely close to each other and save 5% to 10% fuel. The coalition agreement also mentions Mobility as a Service. Mobility as a Service is about multimodal apps, which allow travellers to easily plan, book, travel, customize and pay. All transport in one app: ov, but also sub-cars and bikes. My aim is to speed up this type of innovation, on the one hand by tackling regulation and enabling experiments, and on the other hand by preparing our infrastructure. In addition, we focus on innovative applications that are a little further in the future, such as drone transport and hyperloop. Innovations in traffic are good for mobility and our economy, so I would like to encourage them, while stressing that the issues of privacy and cybersecurity should also be well regulated. Mr Jetten, Mr Dijkstra and Mr Amhaouch asked what possibilities there were for new developments such as the hyperloop. As you know, the coalition agreement pays attention to innovations and smart mobility. The hyperloop seems to fit in well. We have a lot of knowledge of smart mobility in the Netherlands, testing and standardizing. I'm talking to the initiators about a test site. Based on data from two hyperloop companies, TNO has conducted extensive research into the feasibility of a test site. Business has also indicated that they would like a test site. It is my preference that the money comes mainly from business, because a test track is only useful if there is real development potential. Interest from the business community is usually a good test. In addition, we can examine whether, in addition to knowledge and expertise, a modest contribution from governments, IenW, EZK, OCW or possibly the European Commission is possible. An interesting option might also be Invest-NL. Finally: support for the initiative, but a good, sturdy business case is a tough condition for me to enter as a government financially. Mrs Van Tongeren asked the question how to achieve future-proof infrastructure. Oh, I see she's moved a spot. In the coalition agreement we agreed to take self-driving vehicles into account when designing, construction and maintenance of infrastructure. For example, for the driving task support that some cars already have, it is necessary that the alignment is unambiguous and recognizable. Cars are increasingly able to read traffic signs. This also applies: single traffic signs with more symbols and less text. Imagine entering the Netherlands via Limburg and seeing a sign saying "after so many meters of zippers." It already is. If foreigners go to see the word "zipper," I don't know if it's gonna be okay. That will, of course, also play a role in the future. We need more and more symbols in order to make the uniform easily recognizable throughout Europe. Moreover, for the development of the self-driving car, the physical environment must be digitally available. Retrieving, keeping up-to-date and making available data on that environment is essential. In addition, cars that are now being developed cannot start driving independently on all roads and in urban areas. In consultation with car manufacturers, I would like to lay down requirements specifically for this infrastructure to be able to get on the road safely with the new techniques as soon as possible. In recent years work has already been done on the connectivity between vehicle and road side. Together with Germany and Austria we develop techniques for this. For example, warnings in the car for road works. In the longer term, opportunities are also created to make better use of the space on the road. It is crucial that we make it possible to gain experience. Testing on the public road provides valuable knowledge for this. That's it for this block. Everyone's happy. Well, then I'm gonna move on to the block of "air travel."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u89	Quickly, before anyone wakes up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u90	Yes. Mr. Chairman. A good airport Schiphol is important for the Dutch economy and our attraction as a location. In recent years, aviation has grown considerably. Not only for business traffic, but also for a weekend in Vienna or for a holiday in Thailand people catch the plane. Schiphol Airport is the European airport with most direct connections and a strong international network. We can be proud of that. However, there is also another side to the growing popularity of flies. More planes cause more noise and people suffer from it. Air traffic growth also has an impact on CO emissions. We must carefully weigh all these interests against each other. We want a change to a more sustainable and smart aviation. Experiences around Lelystad Airport show that there is a broad need for residents, governments and airspace users to be more involved than in the past. I take that need seriously and will give a place in the drafting of the new Aviation Note. From the beginning, I want to involve residents, other governments, knowledge institutions and experts and make a plan together for the future. Mr. Chairman. Many parties in the Chamber discussed the expansion of Lelystad Airport and the reclassification of airspace. Mrs Kröger, for example, asked me whether I would like to attract the diminished confidence in the Schiphol area. I can tell her that I certainly care. For all parties in the Schiphol Environment Council, it is crucial that the two requests for advice now before us are discussed on the basis of confidence. At the beginning of next year, I will talk to the parties of the ORS about the pending referrals. This week I sent you an answer to the written questions on the amendment of the airport classification decision. I have stressed that new residents around Schiphol have no duty of silence. For details, please refer to the letter. Trust is crucial. I therefore believe that new residents should be well informed about the possible noise nuisance they will be able to experience. On that basis, they can then make a conscious choice to live somewhere or not. The region and the sector parties have agreed to inform new residents. I think that is a step in the right direction. Mr Laçin asked a question about the extension of Lelystad Airport. My aim is to open Lelystad Airport to commercial traffic on 1 April 2019. That's what my predecessor agreed with your Chamber at the beginning of the year. This is important for the position and development of Schiphol as an international hub of connections. The agreed limit of 500,000 flight movements per year at Schiphol Airport until 2020 is in sight. Until then, there's hardly any more growth space at Schiphol. This puts great pressure on the Hub function of Schiphol, underlined by the cabinet. For Lelystad Airport, decision-making has yet to take place on the connecting routes. I understand the concerns that exist in the region about these connecting routes, especially if it is not yet clear how these routes are going to run and how high they are going to be flown. I want to be clear about my commitment. I want the environment, provinces, municipalities, small aviation and, last but not least, the inhabitants very well involved in the decision-making process. The process of opening up must be carefully and transparent on the basis of the correct data. In recent times, we have done our best to inform residents and involve stakeholders. Information meetings were held in the region. Afterwards an extensive and careful internet consultation took place. In parallel, the consultation process of airspace users ran. Many parties, such as Teuge airport and umbrella organisations, have spoken. With your Chamber it is further agreed to ask a residents' committee to give advice. I will receive that advice next Friday. But I realize there's more to it than that. I want to work on the care and quality of the process. Mr Laçin said that the cabinet wants to get rid of a maximum number of flights at Schiphol Airport, while many people are already being hampered. The coalition agreement states that the focus should not be on the number of aircraft movements but on nuisance reduction. Through the fifty-fifty distribution rule of the environmental gain, we give a first thought to the importance of nuisance reduction. In the case of environmental gains from quieter aircraft, for example, only half of this profit may be used for the further growth of the airport. Mr Jetten and Mr Bisschop asked when the Lower House would receive the plan of approach for the reclassification of airspace. The role of stakeholders in that process was also called for. You'll get a plan of action for the Christmas celebrations. I will also include a proposal on how I see the role of stakeholders. I would like to develop this commitment with stakeholders. My D.O.D. and I are in charge of the airspace review together. I'm really happy that I'm gonna be able to hang out with her so well. We're really gonna look at this whole thing together. It will take place in close cooperation with and between the military and civil air traffic control. The civil and military parties are already talking to our neighbouring countries, and they were also asked to do so. The aim is to reach agreements at political level in good time. Mrs Van Brenk asked me for a response to the story that there is no need to wait until 2023 to reorganise airspace. The call is, quite understandable, to speed up the redesign of airspace. This refurbishing must include space to allow the connecting routes for Lelystad Airport to run higher by default. I very much share this need, but it must be possible. As has been said, the revision of airspace is a very far-reaching process. In the coalition agreement, the cabinet has therefore indicated its intention to achieve the intended adaptation of the airspace by 2023, or as much earlier as possible. As promised, I will send your Chamber for Christmas the plan of action for the revision of airspace. Mr Jetten asked what I am going to do to increase the use of biokerosin in airlines in the Netherlands. We are already doing a lot to increase the use of sustainable biokerosin. For example, the Ministries of IenW and EZK are part of the Bioport Holland initiative. This involves parties from all over the chain. In addition, my ministry participates in the KLM Corporate BioFuel Programme. Eventually, the market on both the user and supplier sides will have to be set in motion. Innovation and scaling-up should reduce the price difference between fossil kerosene and biokerosin. With an active incentive policy, the Netherlands can develop as a major European supplier of biokerosin. We're looking at the possibilities for subsidies. Mr Jetten, Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Bishop asked about the taxation of aviation and how I intend to deal with it at European level. To contribute to the Paris climate goals, the cabinet intends to introduce an additional price incentive. This is in addition to the existing EU aviation emissions trading system and the global aviation CO compensation system that will start in 2021. The government agreement states that the cabinet is committed to European agreements on this matter. We also consider whether a tax on noise and polluting aircraft is possible. If all this does not deliver enough, there will be a national flight tax by 2021. The cabinet wants to see the weather by mid-2018, Mrs Van Brenk outlined the options for a European aviation tax and whether this could be supported by the other EU Member States. Mrs Van Brenk asked what a tax on noisy and polluting aircraft is dependent on. Firstly, the levy must be in line with international agreements on this matter. In addition, such a levy should serve the purpose. It must be enforceable and the operational and implementation consequences must be clear. I mentioned earlier our efforts in the field of sustainable biokerosin and technological innovation. Perhaps we can link the levy to this. The Ministries of Finance, IenW and EZK will jointly shape this tax in European or national taxation. Then Mrs Van Brenk also asked what we mean by smarter flying in the coalition agreement. I told you, I think innovation is important. Aircraft builders work on hybrid aircraft engines. Maybe that's a first step towards electric flying. Of course, other new technologies will also be introduced. But smarter and more sustainable are different aspects: the efficient use of airspace, the use of sustainable biofuels and the use of current technology to make flying more efficient. This can be done, for example, by applying lighter materials. New technology can then have a completely different concept of flying, such as electric or hybrid flying. Mr Bishop asked me whether I would like to make an effort to avoid low-fly noise as much as possible. Of course, I want to minimise the noise from the connecting routes for Lelystad Airport as much as possible. At present, the proposals of the various consultations are being processed. With the air traffic controllers we are looking at whether we can make improvements in the design that lead to less ground discomfort and also contribute to more efficient flying. The aim is to indicate to your Chamber in December which proposals can be accepted. It is also true that in practice, if the rest of the traffic is allowed, it will often be possible to fly higher. In the long term, the airspace review will allow room for better fitting of the connecting routes for Lelystad Airport, e.g. higher. That was the block of aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u91	I am glad to hear that the Minister started saying that she wants to regain people's confidence and that she wants to take a number of steps in this regard. A few sentences later I also heard the Minister say that she wants to stick to the opening date of the expansion of Lelystad Airport on 1 April 2019. As far as we're concerned, that doesn't work together. There are 80,000 signatures here, thousands of people who have sent e-mails, attended meetings and took action. And then the Minister's answer is that she wants to hold on to April 1st. The Minister does not gain the confidence of the people. Because what is the case? The unbridled growth of Schiphol would only hit 500,000 movements by 2020, but that is already happening this year. That is because we have all received the low-cost carriers and the Middle East carriers with open arms at Schiphol Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u92	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u93	I'm working towards it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u94	Yeah, that's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u95	That's what we're wallowing now at Lelystad Airport and 700,000 people getting hit by this. That's what we're gonna wallow on these people. Why? Because we need 2% of Schiphol flight movements on Lelystad until 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u96	You keep working on the question, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u97	Sure. And this reclassification of airspace happens to happen in 2023 or as much earlier as possible. So why don't we all agree here that we're waiting for the airspace to be reorganised, that we're going to see how we can hold on to that 2% growth over the next few years, and that we're going to give people confidence back and make them feel like they're being heard? Why can't the Minister say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u98	There is an assignment from this Chamber to establish the extension of Lelystad Airport by 1 April 2019. It's already been postponed once. I've been assigned to carry out your assignments. I'm trying to do it as best I can. Once again, if we can achieve that, and we are doing so, we will certainly do so, because that is the task I have been given from the Chamber. That does not alter the fact that I am certainly looking for the long-term where we can make improvements. I'm really convinced that things can be different and better. I will do everything I can to shape that process in a different way, and I would like to inform you about it shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u99	I welcome parts of this answer, because I see an opening to do things differently if the Chamber so wishes and if it could. I'm happy about that. I have the next follow-up question. Those 10,000 movements: they represent 2% of the flight movements at Schiphol Airport, while Schiphol Airport grew by 6% in 2016. That 2% is nothing at all, I would like to emphasise. Does this 2% matter to this minister or are the wishes and demands of thousands of inhabitants and residents affected by it more important?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u100	In this Chamber, a careful consideration has been made of the interests of Schiphol as a mainport, of all the Dutch who want to travel, of employment involved and also of nuisance for residents. All this has been balanced in the Chamber, and this task I am trying to carry out has emerged from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u101	The Minister did not answer the questions we had about security, about the OVV. In a written reply we have had those answers, so there will be another debate. The people on the floor and the Vereniging Nederlandse Verkeersfliegeren have already set off the alarm bells about this and for us it is very important that we really involve them. I'll save it for the debate. What I want to go to is whether the Minister for the final reclassification, which is scheduled for 2023, will, in the meantime, see the possibility of an exchange between civil aviation and defence. My colleague Hanke Bruins Slot also raised this in the Defence debate. The Secretary of Defense has said she wants to take a critical look at it in the final reclassification. My question is: do you also see space in the interim period, can we do anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u102	I have just stated in the reply that we are in the process of assessing all the responses that could lead to improvements and to see if we can make improvements on that point. If we find quick wins in the process together with Defense, which could make things faster, we're definitely gonna do it. But it's a job that we have to do together in an integral way. I am particularly pleased with the constructive cooperation with Defence, because military and civil use of airspace together. I am very happy that they are willing to think along and not stick tight to "this part and these routes are ours and they are untouchable." I think it's incredibly valuable that we're in that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u103	We also emphasise the care taken by the Minister in this regard. It is good to hear that the Minister is already looking into whether there is a possibility in that exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u104	The Minister begins her argument on aviation with "confidence." One of the most important things about trust is that people know what they're up to. The Minister outlined, among other things, in the answers on the chain clause, that there is no obligation to remain silent. But it's all about the word "sustainability." What's the sound that people who buy a house can provide? What is the sound that people at Lelystad Airport, who are about to be confronted with low flight routes, will hear? What is the real noise, the real noise they face? It's all about a technical point. I have a question about that. The Minister's response to this point really disappointed me. In the Netherlands we only work with sound calculations. Where can be flown, how much can be flown and the sound contours, that's all based on calculations. Now the Minister says: no, it is not, because measurements are also being used. These are measurements in a factory under ideal types, but after that nothing is done with all the measurements that municipalities and Schiphol themselves do. So with the fact that people are sitting up in their bed at 5:00 a.m. and are really suffering from health problems, nothing is then done in the projections. My question to the Minister is whether she wants to validate the noise calculations with the measurements that are already being made, whether she wants to have an analysis carried out on that comparison and whether she wants to share them with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u105	In any case, I have tried to explain it very comprehensively in the written reply. We comply with European rules on how to deal with this problem of noise calculation models. We have European agreements on this. In addition, we monitor what is actually happening in the area of Schiphol. But we're sticking to all the rules. We're transparent about that. There is a website that can be looked at. I do not see what we should improve on that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u106	There really is a crisis of confidence between aviation in the Netherlands and citizens, local residents. We're talking about four provinces. It's about the Schiphol area. The point is that citizens do not have confidence in the fact that only calculations are being carried out, that some sort of paper reality is being created and that we are being "shipholdd." Actually, all the sound experts I've spoken to say that the calculations can be validated with measurement data. We've got those readings. Then let's use it properly. So I ask my question again. The answer that we comply with European rules does not seem to me to be good enough if there is a real break in trust. Other countries are doing it too. Let's see how we can use that measurement data to make calculations stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u107	It is being tested. In this way, the system is also refined. Using measurements, the calculation models have been adapted in the past. You may not be here right now, but it's true. You are talking about imaging, but I really want to deny that there is any form of silence for the residents around Schiphol. It's recorded to make sure that someone who wants to buy a house there as next resident knows what's going on and what the noise load is. Then he knows what kind of house he's buying. That is therefore a positive reason and absolutely not a negative reason. I really want out of the world that people shouldn't complain. Those people can complain about anything as much as anyone else. That's right. That is why I really want to have the suggestion off the table that it would not be or that it would no longer be possible because of the agreements. Everyone needs to know that it's still possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u108	This is all related. My question concerns the following. Does the Minister know on the basis of what situation, of how many aircraft movements at that time, the report of the Security Research Council was made? Is the Minister aware of that number? That's question one. Question two is about the following. To get Lelystad open on time, in 2019, there is a need to adapt the current airspace. How does the Minister describe this adjustment? Because something will have to happen there. There will have to be a decision. There will have to be something of a reclassification or an adaptation of it. How does the Minister describe this? And now comes my final question and conclusion. Can the Minister assure us here and now that, with the best of intentions of course, how she acts is not contrary to what the OVV report prescribes? Can she give us that guarantee?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u109	We are working very seriously on the recommendations contained in the OVV report. We're actually following up on that integrally. The OVV has also given us a positive signal about this. How do we see that in relation to the redesign of airspace? It is clear that this should not contradict each other. I say this again in the direction of Mr Amhaouch, who made a plea for the same OVV report. He said safety comes first for him. You can be assured that this is also the case with us. In relation to the reclassification of airspace, I have just indicated that I am extremely pleased with the position of Defence, namely to look at it fully and in conjunction. How can we meet the wishes and demands, the framework conditions, of Defence and, at the same time, in the smartest and most sustainable way possible, where I come again to facilitate civil aviation? Perhaps we can help each other by moving the routes. You know that defense planes make noise, too, so I shall describe it with caution. So we just have to see how we can weigh all these interests together. That's tricky. It's not an easy task. But aviation is an essential part of mobility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u110	Thanks for the answer. I note that the Minister says that she does not, in her view, contradict the recommendations contained in the report. We also note that the allocation of airspace necessary for the opening of Lelystad is suboptimal. It is not yet the final classification that will be pursued in 2023. With regard to the first question, we are talking about 480,000 aircraft movements. Schiphol says he wants to go over that already to the 500,000. That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u111	That wasn't a question, I establish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u112	That's not a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u113	Fine. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u114	I am pleased that the Minister is committed to further greening of aviation. That's what it takes. We also noted this yesterday in the first term of the Chamber. A green deal for the biofuel programme was concluded in 2013. The participants emit 75% less CO because they fly on biokerosin. At present, only the Ministry of IenW is connected to this. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to ensure that all ministries commit themselves to this programme, so that the Empire sets a good example with flying on biokerosine and saving CO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u115	It seems to me to be an excellent proposal to urge the fellow ministries to join. We don't do it ourselves for nothing, of course. So, in the context of exemplary behaviour, I shall be happy to bring this to the attention of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u116	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I like to hear it when ministries are obstructed, because then we are going to address these colleagues of the minister. Mr President, I have another supplementary question. The Minister also said that she would come forward with a letter in mid-2018 on the European effort to achieve excise duty on kerosene. Mr Wiebes of Economic Affairs and Climate is already campaigning in Europe to commit Member States to those 55% CO savings. I would like to call on this Minister to join this campaign, too, so that we can also form a European leading group in aviation. I would also like to know whether the Minister is prepared to form a leading group if it turns out that we cannot achieve excise duty on kerosene with all the European Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u117	I can reassure Mr Jetten. It is not that we are going to inform you in mid-2018, but you will understand that we are dealing with quite a few transport colleagues. It's quite a row and it's not something you ask about at the first meeting: well, what do you think? So I think we should do that very carefully. I would like to discuss it seriously with those European colleagues. It really takes some time to have an in-depth discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u118	There's a capacity problem at Schiphol Airport, I heard the minister say. The good thing is that we agreed on this in the coalition agreement. I would like to hear the Minister's interpretation of this. On page 42, under "The environmental gain achieved by the sector": since the entry into force of the Alders Agreement, the Alders Agreement, 50% may be used at the Alders table for the growth of air traffic and the remaining 50% environmental gain is used to reduce the nuisance for residents. The Alders Agreement was concluded in 2008. We have seen that aviation has already done a lot of innovation, so environmental gains have also been made. Doesn't that give some relief towards 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u119	We must, of course, continue to do so fully and see where we can find relief through innovations. We just have to go through with it. We are also going to table with Mr Alders to see how we can further shape this for the future. But I would like to come back to this in more detail in the debates on aviation that we will have in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u120	We are certainly going to do that, because it is good to interpret that correctly and to know what has already been booked, so that you can book in that space as well. The second question I have concerns the issue of airspace reclassification. Very important. We want that as soon as possible; you want that as soon as possible. What I understood is that in December we will have some sort of plan of action. Does it say whether that acceleration is indeed possible for 2023, which we always assumed, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u121	Let me not anticipate what is in that letter, because then I will no longer have to send it to you. You can be sure I'll take anything I can use that could lead to acceleration. But let me not anticipate the contents of that letter. Mr President, then I come to my last block: sea and inland waterway transport. Our country is a global logistics power and not least because of our maritime performance. Rotterdam and Amsterdam are among the largest seaports in Europe. More than 70% of all goods coming into our country reach us through the seaports. More than a third of freight transport within the Netherlands is about water. Figures to be proud of. Shipping has important advantages over land or air transport. It's an efficient way of transport. A standard container ship can take 100 trucks off the road. And that saves traffic jams. Moreover, unlike for example on the road or in the air, there is still plenty of space on the water. We therefore invest heavily in maintenance, replacement and expansion of our waterways. For example, we are currently building two large sea slugs near IJmuiden and Terneuzen. They're gonna be one of the biggest in the world. Comparisons with Panama are in order. It should also be more sustainable for shipping. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that we would make a green deal with the sector. I am thinking of reducing CO2 emissions from ships, the energy transition in ports, new financing models and other possibilities. But shipping is experiencing difficult times. The competition is huge. That is why we are working with the sector on a maritime strategy over the years. At the beginning of 2018, we will adopt the new work programme for the next three years, which will include actions in the fields of knowledge, innovation and digitisation. Practical issues such as improving the ship register and safety are also discussed. When we talk about innovations, I find smart shipping an interesting development. Think, for example, of the autonomous abandonment of inland waterway vessels. Tomorrow I will visit the Smart Shipping Challenge in Rotterdam, where we will see many examples. I hope there will also be a lot to see in the media, because it is something we can be proud of. It is and will continue to work hard to improve innovative capacity in the sector and our competitiveness. Our sea and inland waterways are world-class, but also for a seafaring nation like the Netherlands: staying at the top is not as easy as getting to the top. Mr Dijkstra raised the question of whether I share his view that Rotterdam's mainport is important for the Netherlands, for employment and for the location climate. The cabinet supports, of course I would almost say, the importance of the mainports. We are not only talking about the port of Rotterdam and the airports of Schiphol and Eindhoven, but also about our greenports. These concerns, as Mr Dijkstra points out, concern hundreds of thousands of jobs and billions of added value. IenW supports our mainports and greenports with good infrastructure. In the coalition agreement, we also announce measures in the areas of sustainability, energy and climate. In addition, the government continues with the top sectors policy, for example through the top sectors Logistics and Water. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the green deal and if I am prepared to include charging points and more quay kilometres as measures. The green deal certainly comes into being together with the sector; you asked for it. The first orientation discussions have already been held and are continuing in the coming months. I will explore all the measures that can contribute to greening and sustainability together with the parties involved. The same applies, of course, to your proposal, Mrs Dik-Faber. In the green deal we will opt for the most promising initiatives with the greatest impact. But, as I said, the Ministry is not just about that. The content of the green deal will be determined in the near future together with the sector. Mr Bisschop asked about the capacity expansion of the Volkerak, Kreekrak and Krammer locks. The passage times at locks meet the targets on most waterways, but on important waterway routes between Rotterdam and Zeeland that is indeed, I must admit, not the case. This is mainly due to a lack of capacity at some locks on that corridor. The Volkerak and Kreekrak sluices and the sluice at Terneuzen are also included in the MIRT for this reason. With the Krammer lice, the current system for sweet-salt separation will be replaced in the coming years by an innovative bubble screen, a soft, flexible screen that ships can sail through. This will prevent delays in shipping traffic. This will greatly improve the passage times from 2022 onwards. Mr Bishop asked about the increase in the budget of research institute MARIN. Your Chamber has tabled a motion to that effect. I would like to emphasise that maritime research is and remains very important for innovation in the maritime sector. MARIN plays an important role in this research. In March, the Ministry of EZK, as budget manager, sent the evaluation research on organizations for applied research to your Chamber. This has also addressed MARIN. Soon you will receive the cabinet response to this evaluation. In addition, the government agreement announced an intensification of applied research and innovation. The Cabinet shall make known as soon as possible what this means for MARIN. That's it for this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u122	Well, that doesn't raise any questions! I should not have said that: Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u123	I am pleased to hear that the Minister acknowledges that there is still a great deal of space and capacity in our inland waterways and our waterways. That is also what I understood from the inland waterway vessels I had a conversation with on their ship. It is also much more sustainable than, for example, the truck. You just gave me the example of the stress balls that had that on it. I myself have seen inland waterway vessels sail by which 'this is really good for 56 trucks' is on it. Then why are we sticking to the old key until 2030, with only 7% of the 2 billion going to inland navigation and shipping? Is the Minister prepared to let go of that key for good proposals, which promote sustainability and relieve roads, and, if necessary, to look for more money for inland waterway transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u124	I am very pleased that Mr Laçin is also an enthusiastic advocate of inland waterway transport. That is why we are doing a great deal about it. But if you look at the map of the Netherlands alone, you can see that you can't come to a lot of places with those waterways. We certainly need to use all the space we can still use on the water. But for what is described as the burden mile, the last piece, you'll still have to do it on the road.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u125	Agreed. We certainly need that burden mile. We certainly need that truck, and we recognize it. However, we believe that this burden mile is still too small at the moment and that the waterways on that part where it can, mostly, are not yet fully exploited. You also say that the capacity is there. The inland waterway vessels say that space is there, also in terms of ships. Then let us invest more in our waterways and in the transport of goods by water where it can be done. And that burden mile must, of course, remain there. It is precisely for this reason that I am asking whether the 7% of that old key can be released in the cases where that can be done, so that more can be done about water.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u126	I don't think we're gonna get out of this division together, because I think we have a sensible distribution now. There is still a great deal of room for the increase in inland waterway transport. I hope that we can at least continue to agree that we should continue to work on this and that we should look closely at these multimodal nodes. Of course, we must not forget the railways, because there is still a great deal of profit to be gained from these nodes. There you make it possible to use multiple modes on a transport journey, so that we can really efficiently use that modality for that part of the transport, which makes it most efficient and effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u127	I think there is another amendment that we have left open. The Minister has not yet responded and I think this is the last block. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she can give her opinion on the PVV's amendment on the ILT.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u128	I had prepared myself to respond to that in the second term. If you don't mind, we'll do the whole pile at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u129	The Netherlands Waterland, we can be proud of that. For more than 500 million euros, we have built the largest sealock in the world at IJmuiden. You know where I want to go: in Amsterdam they want to build a bridge over the IJ. Very nice too! Are you talking to Amsterdam yet? If so, what's the status of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u130	Well, I haven't been to Amsterdam in my first month. I've been mostly on the square mile around the Binnenhof. I have, however, been at the opening of the lock at Terneuzen 'at the start of the construction' I must say that I have been at the start. No, the first contacts with the region will take place during the BO MIRT talks that we will soon get. Then, I think, we will have all the plans and intentions of all the regions on the table. Then, of course, we will inform you by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u131	At roads we make agreements with the municipalities and provinces for the underlying road network. I think it would be wise to do the same here. If there is a bicycle bridge over the IJ and then we have a less effective sealock for half a billion, that would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u132	I can imagine that this will be a subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you. So much for the Minister in the first term. Before we listen to the Secretary of State, I will suspend for a few minutes and then Mrs Van Veldhoven is next.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u134	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u136	We know the Secretary of State as someone who walks short and pointy and thus responds to the interruptions. We know the MPs as people who get to the core of the case very quickly at the interrupting microphone. So that's all gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u137	Exactly, Mr. Chairman. We're gonna live up to all your expectations! Mr. Chairman. A special moment, and let me begin by thanking the Members of Parliament for all the questions that I will answer briefly and pointily, as requested, but of course with all the content in which the Members of Parliament are asking for. Mr President, it is a special time to stand here now. When I was sitting here yesterday, I thought: it is new, but at the same time it is familiar to sit here with all of you in this Chamber and to talk about the subjects on which we have been debating so many times over the last seven years. I also look forward to discussing these issues with you in this way. As Secretary of State, I now have a different role and a different responsibility, but my motivation is still the same, and I hope you will recognize that too. What matters to me is to make our country future-proof, and from this position, of course, I have a few special points of interest. For the next few years, I will be taking the lead in ensuring good public transport, and I would also like to contribute from transport and circular economy to achieving the objectives of the Paris agreement that we have all signed. I also want to work on making the Netherlands cleaner, safer and more liveable. The environment has disappeared from the Ministry's name, as Mrs Kröger said, but not from my heart. I can also say to the rest that it is certainly not out of my agenda either, when I see the appointments and the piles of pieces that end up on my desk. So we're gonna talk a lot about that. Mr President, I look forward to working with the Chamber, but I am also very looking forward to working with the Minister. We have made a very nice start together and see in many places areas where we really want and can move together. I think that the Chamber has already noticed this in the answer given by the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I've got a couple of cubes, too. First of all, I should like to comment briefly on this most important task, and which agenda I see in it. That's what I do in a general block. After that, I will answer the questions in three blocks: public transport and rail, the contribution to Paris, where there is both circular economy and emission-free transport in the EU, and then a healthy and safe living environment. Mr. Chairman. As many of you have pointed out, it is for mobility on the road and the railroad to show all hands on deck, just to Mr Bishop and Mrs Dik-Faber that, of course, inland waterway transport is also very much on the retina. We're really gonna have to do top-notch sports when I look at the numbers. Until 2030, we expect a quarter more train journeys and in the next ten years half a million people will be added to the Randstad alone. All these people go to work or school every day and go home at night. So they run into the hustle and bustle every day. To solve this, you have also heard the Minister say that, and we really think that together we will have to bet smartly on both the road and the track and the bus as well as a smart use of the bike. And to good travel information. After all, the traveller is not about how he gets there, as long as he or she gets there, comfortable and fast. So we're going to look for smart combinations of this, and I'm going to say that to Mr Dijkstra and Mr Von Martels, who insisted on this, both inside and outside the Randstad. I would also like to say this in particular to Mr von Martels and Mr Amhaouch, who drew attention to this. I will come back to that later. So we need everything, but it is also good to see that a lot is happening in the sector. As the Minister said, mobility is becoming more of a service in many places, with the distinction between resources disappearing a little. Less booths and more match what the traveler wants, that's our goal. In doing so, we are taking steps towards this mobility fund, with which we can also better finance it at some point. Fortunately, there is also room to invest, and that is good news, because the tough challenges in the field of public transport and rail are there. That's a lot of them. Not everything can, that's clear, so we're always gonna have to make smart choices. I think it was about the first sentence that Mr Van Aalst said: we need to be smart about our money. I very much agree with you, Mr. Van Aalst. Mr. Chairman. Money is important, but the people who carry out the work ultimately form our real capital. Without the use of all those thousands of conductors, drivers, drivers, mechanics and all those other employees at companies like the NS, ProRail and the regional transport companies, we are literally nowhere. We're going to need their commitment very much in the years to come. I would like to thank them in advance, I am sure on your behalf, for all this commitment. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the main points of my second priority. It has to do with what I consider to be the great challenge we face together this century, fulfilling the objectives of Paris. If we want to fight climate change... this is still the block of common ground, Mr. Laçin. I'll be back in a few moments to ask you specific questions. This is a bit of the coloring of what you might expect from me in the cubes. If we want to combat climate change, all sectors of the economy must change. The coalition agreement is based on this and gives this department a clear mandate to address a number of points. Two of them lie with me: less waste, more reuse and a circular economy, and CO emissions in the transport sector should be reduced. That calls for action now. I already see a lot of good initiatives: zero-emission buses, curbs made of waste, 3D ink from old dashboards of cars and thousands of mattresses that are recycled every year. That's all very nice, but it takes a lot more. We can only get a wasteless economy by using all the smart ideas: from companies, from science and also from the Chamber. I am very pleased with the offer made by Mrs Kröger to think very constructively and creatively together from the Chamber on this issue, with coalition, opposition and cabinet. I'm looking forward to that. I would very much like to join forces and my commitment to this dossier is also mainly to remove as many obstacles as possible. There's a lot of opportunities. Let's see how we can use it together. I know that this subject lives widely in the Chamber. The VVD has also regularly drawn attention to this. Finally, in general, I want to make a real contribution to a healthy and safe country in the coming years. Healthy air and a safe environment for everyone are at the forefront of this, including in areas where large chemical companies are located and also in areas where dangerous substances are transported. Let it be clear, there is no such thing as a risk-free society, but people must be confident that we are constantly working to improve their safety and health. That was my general block, my general commitment. I would now like to move on to the block of tracks, unless there are any questions, of course. Mr. Chairman. Public transport and rail. With more than 1.2 million train passengers every day, our track is one of the most intensively used networks in the world. Internationally, punctuality is high. We should, because we're setting the bar high, too. ProRail is an important player in this. That is why I would like to make a comment on this. ProRail contributes to a safe, fast, comfortable and affordable journey from door to door for the train traveller at the lowest possible cost for the taxpayer. Public tasks are largely financed by taxpayers' money, around 2 billion a year. That justifies a fundamental choice of how we control that money and how we exercise public control. Therefore, ProRail is transformed into a public-law Zbo with a legal personality. This transformation will be carried out without prejudice to the legal status and working conditions of workers. This is also clear in the coalition agreement, but I think it is important to mention it again here in addition to the letter I am sending you. I'll come to you next year with a letter about how we're all gonna do that. I think it is quite right that this has been clearly taken into account as a point of attention, including in the coalition agreement. An intensive network also means enough money to have the base in order. So we also need to make enough money to invest in management, maintenance and replacement. In addition, we have money that we can invest in new projects. Of course, that's always the best part. I would like to put that money as much as possible on the biggest problems, or call it as much effect as possible. Then I see four main lines. Firstly, to speed up the connection between the very important cities. Secondly, to improve regional and urban development. Thirdly, to strengthen international connections for persons and goods. In the border regions there are many places where much can really be improved in public transport. International train connections play an important role in this. We also have ambitions for freight transport, also on the long lines between the capitals. Fourthly, innovation, sustainability and additional security, for example by giving full scope to new transport concepts. Another example is unprotected consideration. We're all freaked out every time we see an accident happen there. Then we're wondering why that's still the case. There are still too many unnecessary casualties there. For me, it is one of the points that I hope we will be able to work with each other in the coming years. I would like to say that I am working with you, but of course with the sector, with the business community and with the regional directors, who are really indispensable partners on all these issues. The first step with regional leaders is coming soon, as the Minister said. At the beginning of December, at the PO MIRT, we will discuss their priorities with regional directors in a first round. There too, not everything will be possible. They will have to make consistent choices. We'll do that in good consultation. On 11 December, we will consult with you on the results of this consultation with the region. Mr Jetten and Mr Amhaouch have asked very specific questions about the Meuse Line, which I would like to address. Mr Jetten wondered whether this could be a nice pilot project for 3 kV. 3 kV, a voltage increase on the track, is interesting. If this succeeds, it will deliver capacity gains, reduce energy consumption and contribute to less CO emissions. But it is a very large and complex project and so we need to examine and implement it very carefully. In December 2015, NS and ProRail already delivered a SMBA for the 3 kV to IenW. That was an appointment from the Long Term Rail Agenda. An update of this is now being looked at. It looks closely at the opportunities, also in the context of the climate assessments and the compaction that we want to achieve on the track, but also at the costs and risks of making the project manageable. I must, of course, include that information in a careful decision. The update of the SMEA is expected to be completed in December. As soon as I have it, of course, I will send a letter to the Chamber. In this context, we must also look at the possibilities for private funding. If you earn back some of the money by saving energy, that can help you get a business case around. So in that context, we're gonna look at that and we're gonna look at doing a test. Mr Jetten suggested that we take a look at the Meuse Line for that test. In order to be able to carry out a test with the 3 kV, both the infrastructure and the equipment must be adapted. Then the question is whether the Meuse Line is the most suitable for this purpose. At the moment we are thinking of conducting a test in a rail centre, but at some point you also have to go on the track. I would like to keep Mr Jetten's suggestion under consideration, but I cannot make a real statement on it at the moment. We'll take it all and we'll get back to you. Mr Amhaouch asked about the planning and financing of the Maaslijn Nijmegen-Sittard project. I know his great commitment to this project. The planning and financial control of the project is a responsibility of the initiator and that is the province of Limburg. These are coordinated in a steering group with the co-contractors, the provinces of North Brabant and Gelderland. I realize very well that there are still problems. The Meuse Line is a regional project. The Empire has, of course, also contributed to this, because it is an important project. Anyway, there are still problems. In the short term, I would like to see whether we can do that before we talk to the Chamber about the BO MIRT together with the province a final attempt to see if we can resolve the bottlenecks in this long-standing dossier. But I also think it is fair to say to you today that, having studied it all well, I do not see any direct link for an additional financial contribution. But let's see if we can find a clever solution. That is the answer I would like to give to Mr Amhaouch. So I would like, as he asks, to sit down with the drivers again to see if we can come up with a smart combination of commitment, resources and ideas for a solution to that project, which I certainly attach importance to. Then access to regional public transport. Mrs Van Brenk asked for attention to this, among other things. We are striving for quality public transport for everyone, and I really mean everyone. Even if you have a limitation, you just need to be able to make good use of public transport. The same applies to regional public transport, Mrs Van Brenn. Absolutely. We're on the right track. Public transport is becoming increasingly accessible. This concerns all types of public transport and also stops and stations. Of course that happens gradually, because all these stops and stations have their own lifespan. We cannot tackle everything at the same time, but it is a continuous agenda. For example, any replacement of obsolete equipment and conversions of stations and stops takes into account accessibility requirements. Think, for example, of a low entry into new trains and trams or guide lines for people with visual disabilities, which was also recently in the news, that we have been able to realize a lot of them again... and light signs in buses where information about the next stop is on for people who can't hear it properly. But also very practical. During my first work visit on the track I was on the platform and I spoke to a man with a guide dog who was travelling. He was very proud of being able to travel on his own. He also said: very nice that there is not only assistance, but that there are also resources, such as those guide lines, which allow me to travel independently and not depend on that assistance. He did say: think carefully about the design, because, for example, those stations with the slanted poles are a problem for me. And then I thought, "Well, that makes sense, if you think about it for a second." It's this kind of insight that we have to keep collecting and we have to keep giving. We must ensure that we take that into account in the design. Because if you focus on a line on the ground, but not on a slanted pole, then you still create a problem. So it is right that we are always keen on this and try to improve it as best we can. There were also questions about tariffs for regional public transport, but unfortunately this is the responsibility of the provinces and the transport regions in consultation with the carriers. So at that point, here, from this place, I can't do very much for Mrs Van Brenk. She also asked a little more specifically about the neighborhood bus. What do I do to improve them, also in the light of the loneliness of the elderly? That is a question that I think fits very well in thinking about dealing with public transport in rural areas in a different way. I'm gonna take a look at the village where my mom lives. There's a bus there once an hour. So a lot of people don't use that bus anymore, because it's really too little to fit into your transport plan, into your daily plans. And then you move warm air, as Mr Dijkstra said. We do not want that, but we do want the people who live there to have public transport that they can make good use of. Well, then we'll have to make smart combinations. We also want to see if we can make that transport more demand-oriented. If anyone wants, he can ask a question and be said: okay, let's go. We are looking to integrate it with the so-called target transport. I do this together with the Minister of VWS, co-governments and interest groups. We will see if we can somehow combine the vans that are still there, which are still driving, with more demand-oriented public transport in the region. Where we can't build a very fine-meshed network, we try to find smart solutions. There are also a lot of good examples that have already been rolled out. Think of Limburg, for example. There a For Each other Pass has been introduced for people, elderly people who are badly on their feet. They can use that pass for a taxi and for regular public transport. Transporters and municipalities charge the costs behind the scenes. So people don't have a problem with it, but are very well helped in their mobility. That is the first step on the way to what we have mentioned a number of times mobility as a service, Mobility as a Service, abbreviated MaaS, so that travellers can book and pay their trip at once, and have no hassle with switching. Mr. Chairman. I come to the hsl, which has the special attention of Mr Dijkstra. We want to offer quality everywhere, on the whole track: in the region, but of course also on the hsl. Mr Dijkstra therefore rightly thinks that the traveller should also be paid for his money. We all know that the reliability on the hsl is a permanent focus, and then I put it gently. Luckily, they're working hard on that, too. There is an improvement program IC Direct, and NS and ProRail are working hard on that. The NS has indicated that performance has improved significantly compared to the beginning of this year. If that is the case, then that is really good news for the traveller and we can all be very happy about that. Of course, I have to wait and see the results, and I will do so properly before I give you my final judgment, but let's hope that this year the traveller has been able to take good advantage of the hsl. And if the NS succeeds in raising the performance considerably, then of course that is also worth a compliment to the people who realize it. Furthermore, NS and ProRail have another external review on their performance and on the improvement program on the hsl, because we all want to know that we really get the maximum out of that line for the travellers. That's what they should expect from us. I will review this review of the NS in conjunction with the outcome of the market exploration I sent you this week. I will come and talk to you about this in early 2018 if we really have all the results. Mr. Chairman. The HSL debate is already a bit about market organization. Mr Van Dijk had a few further questions about this. The Choosing for a good track report, on which I also sent a letter to the Chamber, underlines the importance of a consistent market organisation. The report sets out various scenarios with more and less market forces. We must, of course, make a choice of direction and organisation very carefully, on the basis of the right information and with explicit weighting of all the important elements mentioned by Mr Van Dijk, such as safety, reliability and affordability. Those are all things that we will certainly consider carefully. The government agreed in the government agreement to keep the option for more market operation open, and because it is formulated as "open" I do not want to anticipate it now either. We will have that discussion with each other after the midterm review has been performed. So that will be by 2020. I say to Mr Van Dijk: it is good to look ahead, but here you are doing something for the troops. Then Mr Van Dijk specifically asked about the province of Limburg, who wants to start a tender with the line Eindhoven-Düsseldorf. He's asking about my position in this. I have not yet decided on this connection, because not everything has been worked out. We really need to make very good agreements with the partners, and also with the partners on the German side. At least I know what the deputy of Limburg wants, but it is a decision that I want to discuss with you here in this Chamber. The province may not be the appropriate party in the end, but at least we know what they want now. Of course, I'd love to take that with me. I will inform you of the state of play before the PO MIRT. Mr. Chairman. I already pointed it out in the beginning: maintenance. Good maintenance, good management and timely replacement are crucial for a reliable public transport network. I know that the Chamber agrees, because questions have been asked about this on a regular basis. Also from the D66 group, even before Mr Jetten did the rail portfolio. Mr Jetten is asking about the state of play of the potential deficit for maintaining the rail network and how we can tackle these deficits. And he thinks along, because he makes the suggestion, for example, that work on regional railway lines should be allowed to continue in the evening because of lower costs. First of all, on the issue of deficits. I can reassure Mr Jetten. ProRail solved the potential deficit of 475 million, which had previously been identified, with all kinds of savings measures. There's a whole program for that. The newly developed method of working on the railways also contributes to this. ProRail has informed me that he has also incorporated the intended savings from 2019 into the financial overview. In addition, structural funds will be needed in the coming years for management, maintenance and replacement. In doing so, we must also take into account the risk that there will sometimes be some setbacks when you take measures. So I will have to reserve money on my budget for that. I will, and I will come back to you on that. For evening work, ProRail has developed a new approach together with regional carriers, governments, NS, passenger organisations and freight transport. It's called future-proof working on the railroad. This approach should lead to less nuisance, lower costs and better executable works for contractors. That seems to me to be all three very important elements to combine. If we manage to do it that way, we're gonna make a big hit. This can also lead to a different division of work over day and night, weekdays, weekends and busy periods of holidays. And Mr. Jetten, that could indeed mean that we sometimes choose to carry out the work in the evening. Mr Amhaouch also asked for work on the track. He asked if we could do so with as little nuisance as possible for travellers. That is absolutely the stake. It is also a very important part of the future-proof work programme on rail. He is right to draw attention to this. The goal is less nuisance for passengers and shippers and more efficient handling of the money. If you see what kind of budgets this is about, this isn't easy. You will receive the plan of approach with the Management Plan ProRail 2018 in December of this year. If you have more detailed questions about this, we can talk about it further. Mr. Chairman. There are many topics in this block of public transport and rail. I should have called it public transport and rail and bicycle, because quite rightly several Members have asked about the use of the bicycle. Mr Von Martels even introduced a nice new term: FGM (Vélo à Grande Vitesse). A beautiful trouvaille! I am pleased with that interest, because I think the bike itself is an extremely important link in our entire mobility. Personally I often came on a bike to the Room and if the weather allows it a bit, I still do, but then to the department. Fresh air at the beginning or the end of the day, clear your head and move a bit; I like it very much. But that's also because I live at a distance wherever you can do it. The cabinet pays 100 million for the bike as part of providing solutions for traffic jams and crowds. There is a great potential for many more people in commuting. Because 25% of commuting already goes by bike, but 70% of commuting is less than 15 kilometres away. You can do that with an ordinary bike, but of course if you have an electric bike. Then it really becomes a distance that is easier to bridge. I do not want to say that this is the solution for everyone, but for those who are considering it I would say that my experience with it is very good. Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Jetten and Mr Azarkan asked how we are going to spend the 100 million and how we are going to involve provinces and municipalities. We must, of course, do so in conjunction with all these parties. In the coming period, I will look at where the greatest needs lie, where the most promising routes lie, and where the greatest shortage of stables lie. I am, of course, very strongly involved in the regions. In the spring of 2018 I will come back to you on how we could effectively spend that money. I say to Mrs Van Tongeren: I also place this in a broader perspective, because there is a national cycling agenda of the Tour de Force. We'll stay on the French side tonight, I think. Tour de Force is a partnership of governments, civil society organisations such as ANWB, Fietsersbond and industry. I would almost say that it is the bike agreement Mrs Van Tongeren mentioned. It is my intention to at least double the money for both bicycle parking and infrastructure through co-financing by the partners. Because there are so many wishes that we can only make some of them if the regional partners can contribute to them. I believe that there are 400 million-dollar plans for cycle motorways alone. So I'm not going to save that with the 100 million, but if we join forces, we can probably make an even bigger investment out of that 100 million for the bike, cycle paths and bicycle parking places. But still: you have bikes and bikes. You know that, too. The range of bicycles in the Netherlands is becoming more beautiful, colourful and richer. If I park my bike at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, I can see the whole range. That takes up space in one of those bike sheds. So we will also have to think about how in the stations where there is a shortage of places, we will have to give room for those other bikes. We need to make sure that we do this in a bit of a space-saving way. There is still a great deal to be done about innovation. Bicycle highways are aimed at fast cyclists and therefore ideally suited for e-bikes. Mr. Jetten is worried about the poles. Indeed, they do not fit in well, so if we are going to roll out those fast routes, let's make sure that they can be fast and not be littered with all kinds of unnecessary obstacles. That's what we're gonna be focused on. Mr Jetten also asked about the combination of the bicycle with large-scale infra projects. That's what we're looking out for. It is interesting to report that the bike has actually acquired a very own place in the MIRT. In the case of investment in state infrastructure, where possible, smart investments are made, for example by integrating regional cycling infrastructure plans into the design. That is of course not relevant to all plans, but where it is relevant, we do so. This often means significant cost savings for the local authorities. Combining cleverly what Mrs Kröger was talking about, we are doing this way, among other things. Mr. Chairman. Many provinces and transport regions have additional plans for co-investment in additional stables. So I hope we can make the most of that with each other. Mr. Chairman. That was the end of a long block on rail and public transport. I hope that I am in line with your objective of relatively short formulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u138	We are equally well informed; that may be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u139	You're good at it, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u140	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her comprehensive answer on target groups and accessibility. It is reassuring that there is good attention to that. On one part I had hoped that there could be something more. I understand that you are not dealing with the question of whether we can make the transport for AOW beneficiaries cheaper after rush hour. In some cities it's already free. In fact, the request is: could you encourage that? We know the examples from Amsterdam, Rotterdam and Eindhoven. It's even free there. Perhaps you could do something to draw the other municipalities over the line as well? That was our request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u141	I understand Mrs Van Brenk's request very well, and I also think it is very sympathetic, but it is also important to keep the distribution of roles pure on some points. What I can do is ask the municipalities to share their best practices with other municipalities. We talk at a lot of different times. If a municipality has had very positive experiences, it is of course very nice if it shares them with others. I would certainly like to take Mrs Van Brenn's suggestion in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u142	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u143	I would like to make two comments first. Very briefly. I heard the Secretary of State say that we should not anticipate the discussion on the market organisation and whether there should be more market forces. I'm glad to hear that we can have that discussion in due course. Then there is the second point. As far as SP is concerned, public transport, buses, is a basic provision for a good and liveable district. But we can discuss this at a later date. My question is about the hsl. We see that punctuality, customer satisfaction and the chance of a seat rise. The signals for this year, which you also referred to, are promising, but we have to wait and see. The research of the 2016 improvement programme has shown that the NS and ProRail are working effectively to improve the performance of the Intercity directly. Last week's market survey shows that the NS can make improvements itself and that other carriers do not have the equipment to drive on the HSL in the short term and do not want or work with the NS. Then why, with all the points I mentioned, does the cabinet choose to tighten up the three strikes out principle of the previous cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u144	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u145	Why does the government say in the coalition agreement that the NS should not work together at three strikes out, but that there should be a re-contract? Why is the NS being cornered, when I think it's good to work with the NS on these improvements right now on all these points? Because the NS, like ProRail, is a very important player.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u146	I fully agree with Mr Laçin on the latter. He's a very important player. It is the party that we have awarded the entire main rail network for ten years. So that also says something about our trust in the NS. At the same time, it is important that that was, of course, also the outcome of the parliamentary inquiry into the Fyra that we are trying to get everything out of that line. It followed that "three strikes out" principle. The tightening-up of the Fyra Parliamentary survey stated that if the NS and several times in a row on the same indicator sink through the bottom values, then you should consider whether there is another way out of that line for the traveller. So if you put the traveler first, that is in itself real. That research has been carried out, because of course you need to know whether such a party is there at all and whether it can do better at all. That study showed that there are parties that can also make it plausible that they can reach the soil values, that they can achieve even more than the soil values. But these parties also say very clearly: we want to do this independently, not with the NS. These are all data that I take with me to the discussion we will have later on about whether we want to do it again in the same way after this concession or whether we want to change things. But at the moment there is no three strikes out on the basis of the results and therefore it has no effect on the NS in the sense that there will be a change. If they do it right, we just have a contract with the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u147	I'm glad to hear that if they do it right, we just have a contract with the NS. Only, our aim is to work especially towards a good elaboration with the NS instead of threatening with that three strikes out and pushing it into the corner of the NS. For example, Arriva says that it wants to compete the NS from the market, that it wants to become the largest, that it wants to take over the main rail network. It's also been in the papers recently. So in that sense, I also ask the Secretary of State to look for opportunities for more cooperation and improvement of the NS, and not to sit on more market forces and threats, which are now coming from all corners towards the NS. What can the Secretary of State say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u148	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u149	I'm not talking about Arriva's words, so I have to leave that entirely to them. But Mr Laçin certainly thinks that I am on his side when it comes to focusing on the continuous improvement of the performance of the NS and the importance of the traveller. That's what I'm in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u150	Very good. Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u151	The Minister... I mean, the Secretary of State; I have to get used to that interaction. I have to deal with both the Minister and the Secretary of State, aviation and rail. I'll get back to the Meuse Line first. We would like to take advantage of the Secretary of State's hand delivery, because the Meuse Line is a partnership. That's where the Empire is, that's where ProRail is, that's where the province of Gelderland is, that's where the province of Limburg is, that's where the province of Brabant is. 160 million is invested in it, including the Greenport Venlo station. Then it cannot be in my mind that when we go out together, we don't come home together to realize that project. I would indeed like to underline what the Secretary of State says: we are going to see what we can do in the next few weeks and will return to the MIRT. That's one. The second is Eindhoven station. I spoke about this in my speech, but I had not yet had any reflection on it. Perhaps you can reflect briefly on this, because that certainly fits in with the Eindhoven-Germany line; I mean not only the rail link, the intercity, but also the developments at that station.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u152	You will now conclude with a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u153	My first question is whether the Secretary of State can reflect on developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u154	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u155	Then I'd like to put my second question to you, if that's possible. Or is the Secretary of State going to answer this question first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u156	First, let's go and listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I would like to talk to the region to see that. I noticed that, of course, we, as the Empire, have already released more than 70 million for this. So we think it's an important project, too. Somewhere there is, of course, an end to what we can add to it, but the commitment I made earlier, namely to see if we can find smart solutions, I am very happy to keep. Let us indeed look at the MIRT to see if we have got any further. On the point of Eindhoven station: the Eindhoven-Düsseldorf line is part of some of the concrete projects that the coalition agreement appoints. It is an important line for cross-border traffic in that region. That's what we're gonna talk about. In addition, Eindhoven station of course also comes around the corner. I cannot say much more about it now, but we can certainly discuss it further at the MIRT note-to-note meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u158	Okay. Then I have one more question, if you don't mind, Mr. Chairman. It is about the use of rail, about the maximum capacity utilisation. The Secretary of State has said a number of times that she is working on a management plan or a perspective plan; I cannot quote it literally. But apparently there are still single-deck trains ordered, while you also indicate that the Netherlands has almost the busiest track internationally. Can the Secretary of State explain why that is still happening? Another point is that, if there is maintenance on the railroad, we still seem to close the railway lines. How do the neighbouring countries deal with this? Can we still be effective at that point? When work is done on the road somewhere on the A67, not all four or both jobs are closed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u160	So can we look at creative ideas to make maximum use of the track?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u161	I very much share Mr Amhaouch's intention to make maximum use of the railways and to reduce the nuisance caused by work as much as possible. At the same time, we want to do it safely. I am sure that the programme on future-proof management of the railway ProRail has also looked at these kinds of ideas. That is absolutely what is at stake. We want to reduce the nuisance as much as possible and use it as much as possible, within what is safe for the people who have to work on the railways. I am sure that Mr Amhaouch attaches great importance to this. Then the double-deck trains. When Mr Amhaouch said that yesterday, I also thought: yes, that is actually quite unusual. So I checked it out. It is now clear that we are making a conscious choice to this effect because of the accessibility of public transport, including for people with disabilities. You can see all these double-deck trains in front of you. In addition, you either have to take a step down or a step up. So if you're limited, you actually have bad access to those trains. That is one of the reasons why there has been a change in the purchasing process. We have said in Chambers that we think that accessibility, including for people with disabilities, is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u163	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u164	No, you've been there twice, Mr. Amhaouch, and you've asked very long questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u165	No, it was two questions. We have five questions per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u166	That's not my fault. Then you must ask one question. Unless you say, "I'm gonna risk another interruption." But then we just add it to the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u167	This is my last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u168	No, that would be the third time I've given you the floor, and interruptions go in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u169	I think I've got two...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u170	Yes, you've asked a lot of questions, but interruptions go in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u171	You can hear how long the introductions are. I've got some pretty short introductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u172	Your questions were also very long, so you've had a very long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u173	May I have a very brief...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u174	No, no, no, because I've heard you twice already and interruptions really go in two. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u175	This was an important block for my group. Public transport and bike give us warm feelings. The Secretary of State has spoken about maintenance on the railroad. For my group, the unguarded rail crossings are also important. They're unsafe. My question is: does the Secretary of State share those concerns? And what does she intend to do to improve that safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u176	I absolutely share those concerns. I hope that was clear in my introduction. The fact that people are still dying on an unguarded transition is something we should try to bring back together as soon as possible. So I certainly want to do everything I can to deal with these unguarded transitions. I come to speak with you about this, but I understand the question of the Christian Union very well. We want to speed up here. I have also asked the department to identify where the greatest risks are and what we can do to speed this up in order to bring them back as much as possible. It is quite right that this is a priority for the Christian Union. I share that very much and I would like to return to you with further information. It's high on my agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u177	My follow-up question is when this information could come to the Chamber, because I cannot rule out, of course, that the Christian Union will also discuss this at the MIRT. I'm smuggling a little, Mr. Chairman. The bike is also very important to us. The Secretary of State said she's gonna consult with local authorities. But please also include civil society organisations and organisations such as NS. It seems extremely important to me that it is not just something administrative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u178	Let me reply immediately to that last point. I totally agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. We're gonna need all the parties. Stations are often major bottlenecks. As part of the Tour de Force I speak with everyone, of course, but I will certainly also need very specific at the bicycle parking parties like NS and ProRail, besides the drivers, so I certainly agree with that. At the point of considering, I'm going to see if I can come up with something before the MIRT, hopefully before 11 December 2017. If that really does not work, I will let you know, but I hope to be able to do so before then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u179	First of all, I am pleased to hear that the Secretary of State shares the analysis that it is really crucial to use on track to address the measurement problems. My question is therefore whether she shares the analysis and ambitions of Mr Pier Eringa, Director of ProRail, that short-distance trains in Europe should be faster, easier and cheaper than flying. If it shares that analysis, can it then carry out an analysis of what is needed, both in financial terms and in regulations and in all possible things that we as a government and society can do to achieve this ambition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u180	That's a clear question. I absolutely share the ambition that it would be nice if more people could choose the train instead of the short-haul plane. I also believe that even in the Chamber the agreement has been made that all journeys under 500 kilometres will take the train instead of the plane. So let us certainly see what we can do about it. I intend, also in response to a question from the CDA, to come up with an integrated agenda for all our international rail links. I think that will give us an insight into what capacity is and what lines we can do with. I'd like to take it with me in that context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u181	Thank you. I hope that we will indeed get an analysis that will make it really clear what can happen. I think it is important that the Court has such an analysis before we make major decisions on aviation. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, it is really insane to set up a new airport for 45,000 extra flights, while we still have 60 flights a day from Schiphol Airport to London, which you can do with the train. You'll be in the heart of London in four hours. As far as we are concerned, therefore, there is a real incentive to come up with this analysis and to have a clear agenda before we decide on any airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u182	But now I want to manage the expectations a little bit. In any case, I cannot promise that I will come forward with this before decisions are taken on aviation. In the end, it is also up to people themselves to decide whether to get on the train or choose the plane. There is a great deal we can do, and I also expect a great deal from Mr Eringa, who has become head of a European organisation, to ensure that all rail traffic is made easier and more flexible internationally. Those are all things that will be necessary to make it an attractive offer. But in the end, people choose for themselves, and that is why it is perhaps wise that we should not link that one-on-one to the aviation agenda, although I understand the link that Mrs Kröger makes. After all, if you take the train more and less on the plane it will help. We agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u183	I am pleased that the Secretary of State says that the traveller is at the centre of the journey and that there is a need to work hard on the transport and rail system. That's absolutely necessary. We need more capacity. We also hope that more and more people use it. That's very good. It is also good that the employees are at the centre. They do great work day after day. The Secretary of State then said about the concession that opening up intercity lines to other market players is still a matter for the cabinet. That's not until 2025. Yet that one sentence has done something with the employees. They get restless: what does that mean for my job? Perhaps the traveller also thinks: what does that mean for the rest of the track? What was the ratio for that one sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u184	If you put the traveller at the centre and if you know that every ten years you have to consider how to handle the concession on the main rail network, it is real to keep the possibility open that, if you can get more out of it for the traveller, you would like to weigh that in the decision. That has just been a political weighting. It is therefore for the benefit of the traveller. If you put that at the heart of the matter and not the carrier, I think that is a very logical consideration, which has nothing to do with anything else. The traveller is central, not the party that transports the passenger. If you really put it on one, two and three, that seems to me to be the strategy you have to choose. Mr Van Dijk mentioned a number of important points. Of course we are going to consider them all very carefully. Of course, the position of workers is always looked at very carefully. We really depend on these people to transport us on all those tracks and bus lines every day. We are very grateful for all their hard work. Of course, we'll all take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u185	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. We may not be able to agree on whether or not there is more market on the track. Perhaps that is a fundamental choice that we each make differently. But I'm for something else. Weigh the importance of the traveler, the importance of the staff and the importance of an integrated approach, namely: the management of stations, the management of safety around stations, all of them before decisions are taken on possible more market players. Perhaps this can already be involved in the first decision, on the HSL-South, also an intercity line, towards Düsseldorf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u186	Perhaps we shall see Mr Van Dijk and I will finally agree on the conclusion. In my view, we are very much in agreement on the process. All these points need to be taken into account when placing the traveller at the centre and if you want to deal with the parties and employees on the track in a real way. We have to do it carefully. That's exactly what I intend to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u187	The traveller had to wait for years for a decent product on the hsl. Looks like it's finally gonna work out this year. So the pressure on NS and ProRail definitely helped. I hope they're gonna make it, too. Like many colleagues, I have been with drivers on the hsl in recent months and have seen that they are working very hard to achieve that performance. But we're not there yet. That is why I have three brief questions for the Minister. First of all, can the Minister also indicate in the 2017 performance letter where we stand with the improvement of the infrastructure on the hsl and what is needed in the coming years? Secondly, does she want to pay attention to Dordrecht station, which is now the victim of all the extra attention to the hsl in terms of access to the railway? Finally, I would like to ask the following question. The predecessor of this Secretary of State has promised me before the summer that the surcharge in the ICU would be removed immediately, out of rush hour. The predecessor of this Secretary of State then made two pages in De Telegraaf good grace. Next Friday it's December 1st. That supplement hasn't been canceled yet. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she is going to urge the NS to do so this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u188	She can just answer with "yes" or "no" per question, can't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u189	Am I prepared to address the infrastructure measures in the 2017 letter? There are a number of points on the infrastructure that are known to be problematic. I've already committed $60 million to deal with it. In the letter I will go into what the plans are for that. The point about Dordrecht is a long discussion. I don't have the latest state of affairs ready right now. I'll see if we can arrange that for you in second term. Otherwise, I'll inform you in writing. The same applies to the supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u190	Mr. Amhaouch still?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will come back to what the Secretary of State said in her reply about accessibility. We have ratified in the Chamber the UN Convention on Accessibility for All, including in public transport. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to take a critical look with the railways, with the providers, at whether accessibility can also be regulated or organised in a different way. If we're just gonna order more single-deck trains on this very busy track, we're gonna get into trouble. I would like to say once again: without failing the people with restrictions who have to go from A to B.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u192	I think I can understand Mr Amhaouch's request: are there not combinations where you have enough seats on a train and that accessibility is there? That is certainly a question that we can also put to the carriers, so that they pay attention to the great hustle and bustle and to the large number of people we want to transport with these trains in a decent way. I'd be happy to take that suggestion with me to the transporters. It's both things. I also belong to the CDA that she likes to see these two points well combined. I come to my block of contributions to the Paris Convention on Climate Change. We're going to a world of 9 billion people. Over the last century, we have used 34 times more materials, 27 times more minerals and 12 times more fossil fuels. That will have to be changed if we do not want to burden the generations after us with irreversible problems. Mr Van Raan spoke of a split with growth on the one hand and the boundaries of our ecosystem on the other. I say to him: in the end you are right, of course, because on a finite planet you cannot grow infinitely. If you're doing a split, it's important that you're flexible and flexible. The better you're in there, the better it's gonna be. I am convinced that we can then train well to do that gap better. Due to strong ambitions, green innovations and high standards, I think we could cope with tremendously agile challenges. I think there are also a lot of opportunities in that reversal. I think Mr Van Raan knows that I look very much at these opportunities, that I see the need and very much like to take advantage of those opportunities. I like to bet on that. That is how I see our ambition to move towards a circular economy. I won't turn on a counter right away, but in less than 12,000 days it'll be 2050. Then we want a completely circular economy without waste, an economy that runs on reuse; without waste and with smart design. Mrs Van Eijs stressed the importance of this. I agree with her very much, and so we need action now. We'll take care of it. We have a good starting point with the raw materials agreement that the Labour Party has always worked hard for. In many parties in the Chamber, I see that they support the ambitions of the raw materials agreement. In particular, all partners outside the Chamber support it, because that is where it has to come from. Mrs Kröger, once again, indicated that she would like to hang out with me. I urge everyone else to do the same. Let's get the maximum out of this together. I see that Mrs Mulder of the CDA is listening carefully. I also know her as a warm advocate of this subject. Mrs Kröger and Mr Laçin asked me about the transition agendas and the budgets of the state-wide programme. Those transition agendas are coming up next spring. They will include an action agenda, a knowledge agenda, a social agenda and an investment agenda. I hope that they will all be completed in January 2018. After that, the cabinet comes with a reaction. I also take into account the SER study on the employability of existing public financial instruments and the funding possibilities through, for example, Invest-NL or the European Structural Funds. For the existing measures of IenW from the state-wide programme, we have around 18 million euros available in 2018. In addition, of course, we have other departments which have their own measures and bear the costs themselves. Finally, I would like to say that circular economy is part of climate change. For this purpose, the cabinet has annually released EUR 300 million in addition to the current resources of the SDE+. Before we think we have 300 million a year, I'm saying this is not going to be the case. Because we have to share that money with a lot of other departments that also have very big problems. We are going to talk about exactly how that money is going to be distributed. In any case, this is an envelope in which attention is also paid to circular economy. An agreement is also concluded with the water authorities, provinces and municipalities. At the time, in their input to the formation table, you were given the circular economy as something important. You all know that the waterboards are very ambitious about this. Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Eijs asked about textile recycling. In the Rijkswide programme Circular Economy I have indicated that I will explore this. I am going to see how we can extend the existing responsibility of producers. I am thinking, for example, of agreements on the amount of reusable materials. We've already started that reconnaissance. In addition, this is discussed in the Imvo-Convenant Sustainable Clothing and Textiles and in the transition agendas. Like I said, there's gonna be a reaction in the spring. There's gonna be another reaction to that impo-convenant. Mrs Dik-Faber is concerned about the labelling of clothing. She wonders whether it is true what is on it and wants to have an insight into how durable one substance is compared to the other. I'll take all that with me. These are very legitimate points of interest, because as a consumer, you want to know if you are doing well. If that is not clear or if the information is missing, you don't know how to make the right choice. So we'll get back to that. Wandering waste and deposit money are a pièce de résistance in the discussion with the Chamber on circular economy. Several MPs asked about deposit money and about combating litter. In February, a majority of the Chamber supported the motion we all know as the petition motion of the Plastic Soup Surfer. This motion calls for effective measures to be taken to achieve a 90% reduction in small plastic bottles in litter waste within three years. I very much support this ambition, because combating plastic soup in the oceans is very important. We should be proud of people like Boyan Slat, who clean up the plastic soup in the oceans; it is of course even more beautiful if we manage to prevent plastic from disappearing into the sea. That's why dealing with these little plastic bottles is so important. We've been talking about it as a Chamber for a long time, because we're steering on effect and not on means. For example, we set up the pilot Clean Rewards with each other. That is to say: Nature & Environment, the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the packaging business have set up with each other. They've tried different reward systems. The evaluation I sent the Chamber is fresh from the press. A further explanatory letter from the partners will be presented with their interpretation of this evaluation. I'll give it to you. In any case, I am going to look very closely at the results of the research into the introduction of deposit money for small bottles and cans. That was done under the previous cabinet. Of course, the evaluation of the Packaging Framework Agreement is also important. I say to Mr Laçin that reducing litter and recycling materials and products is, of course, also a very important part of the circular economy and of the transition agendas. So that's where it's definitely coming back. Mr. Chairman. Then I go to sustainable transport and air quality. That's the second block under Paris. There is also an urgent need for clean transport. Transport is responsible for one third of CO emissions worldwide. The Paris agreements therefore mean that the mobility sector must also be made more sustainable. Much is already happening, but much more is needed to meet the 2030 intermediate target. On this point, I would also like to agree with all the parties concerned before the summer on how we are going to achieve this task in the coalition agreement. Mrs Van Eijs asked if I see opportunities for the growth of electric and hydrogen-electric buses, for example. I would very much like to say to her that in the context of the letter I am writing on mobility I will return to it, because I know that it is a point that the D66 Group has long been paying attention to. These are opportunities to get as many emission-free public transport buses as possible on the road together with local authorities. A number of agreements have been made. I would like to go back to that in more detail in the context of the letter. It looks hopeful. There are already almost 200 electric and hydrogen-electric buses. They are also subsidised through MIA/Vamil. I will come back to the details, but this is absolutely an important point. Mrs Van Eijs also asked about the ambition of new emission-free cars in 2030 in relation to the European Commission's recent proposal on car emissions. The proposal that was put forward was not sufficient to meet our 2030 target. That was clear. But that is why I will, of course, be the first to work in the forthcoming negotiations in Brussels to strengthen that proposal. I am not going to do that alone, because there are also a number of other countries that would like to have that standard higher, because European source policy is, of course, a very efficient way of reducing emissions for everyone. So I'm gonna look into it, but we all know that it's a tricky point for some countries. That will probably be tough negotiations, but you have my full commitment in that context. In addition, the coalition agreement also has a clear task for charging infrastructure and differentiation of parking charges. That's all gonna help make cleaner driving more attractive. Mr President, those were my answers in the block about our contributions to Paris. Then I'll be the last to have a block of healthy and safe living environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u193	We are grateful to the Secretary of State for the written answers we received earlier today. She also referred to the question I raised about the consideration of CO emissions and other negative environmental impacts in socially responsible purchasing. I am glad to read that the Secretary of State has already taken action to investigate how it can weigh CO emissions. We wondered whether it could indicate when we could expect the results of this study. Does it expect CO to provide opportunities for innovative, new, often smaller players on the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u194	When exactly we can come up with that, I'm gonna check it out. I'll get back to you in second term. Then I have to see exactly how far we are with that and what a logical time it is to get back to the Chamber. Maybe it could be taken into account in the context of a letter we've already planned. In all these things, it is important that we ensure that SMEs have good access and that it is also feasible for SMEs, because there is a great deal of innovation there. Mr Ziengs knows that as an economic spokesperson like no other. There is an enormous amount of innovation in SMEs. We must, of course, be able to use them. Such a system will always have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u195	That's good to hear. I do hope that we will get some news about when we can expect this. I have a motion in preparation, but I hope we can get back to this soon. I assume it will happen soon enough and I will not table my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u196	We will try to give you an indication as soon as possible. Let's hope we can find each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u197	Mr Laçin's fifth interruption. We'll keep track of it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u198	I'll keep track, too, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to hear that, contrary to the government agreement, the Secretary of State does pay a great deal of attention to the circular economy. I would like to ask a question about the extension of deposit money to small bottles and cans. D66 advocates such an extension. It's a serious option in the election program. Mrs Dik-Faber's party, the Christian Union, also supports this as a serious option. My first question to the Secretary of State is: why is this enlargement not simply regulated by the negotiating table in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u199	There is a link between the first and second questions. Why is there so little about circular economy in the coalition agreement? Maybe that's a matter of "underpromise over deliverer." Behind that sentence there can be a lot of hiding. Let's make it the best of each other. The coalition agreement is in some respects very detailed and in others less detailed. I am very pleased that circular economy is anchored in the coalition agreement as part of climate change. I think that's an incredibly important crochet to get to work on in the years to come. It leaves room for us, but also with all the social parties that we need, to properly fill out this agenda. We can only pull that off the ground if we really have all those parties on board. I personally welcome the scope offered by the coalition agreement. Station money is one very specific element of that whole circular economy that we rightly talk about very often. But there too it is a question of making a sensible agreement with each other. How are we to draw a good conclusion with the various parties that are very closely involved here, perhaps the Court of Justice is the first to do so? For that, we need some data. I thought it was very important that we had the evaluation of those pilots Clean Rewards. We have that report that's already been compiled. And we will have the evaluation of the framework agreement in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u200	Thanks for the answer. We will certainly make use of the space available to work together and to come up with good ideas, viable motions and plans to promote the circular economy. But I also return to the point of deposit. There are reports from CE Delft and the CPB. We have a motion on the Plastic Soup Surfer that I believe has been unanimously adopted. We received the evaluation or the report on Clean Rewards yesterday. As a party we are past the phase of viewing. We want this expansion of the deposit money to happen. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore when the part of the action programme she has just mentioned comes to the Chamber. I missed that for a second. Is it also part of the action programme how we are going to achieve an increase in deposit funds? Will that be an action plan in that action programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u201	Before we discuss all the action plans in all the action plans: the transition agendas are coming. There's the whole plastic chain in there, and that's wider than just deposit money. I take note of the fact that the SP has already made an analysis of all the reports that are there and have reached a conclusion. I would like to await everything, including the evaluation of the RRAAM agreement, because I think it is important to include it. We will certainly be talking about it again here at the beginning of next year. I could also come up with a letter, in which I will take my analysis of the various documents together, so that we will certainly discuss them with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u202	Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u203	Let me ask you a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u204	No, you've been twice, and those were very long announcements. Mrs. Thick-Faber!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u205	I just asked when the action programme would reach the transition agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u206	The transition agendas are coming, I believe, in January. As soon as I have all the documents, I will also be working on the action programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u207	The Secretary of State started this block with a sketch of how much more raw materials we have been using this century. That was new information for me. It scared the hell out of me. So I also encourage her to continue this circular economy with strength, and I am sure she will. One of the raw materials I want to get out now is textile. I have also asked questions about it in Parliament recently. I see that we have actually entered a downward spiral, because the materials used for the production of clothing are of increasingly poor quality. There is also a part of working conditions, but I am now restricting myself to the environment because we are talking about it now. We are in a downward spiral and, of course, I do not want to deal with the responsibility of the clothing industry either. But how can we break that fast fashion trend? Is the Secretary of State prepared to agree to that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u208	I believe that Mrs Dik-Faber has shown a very important trend, which is indeed a challenge for us. The question is how to tackle this in the context of the circular economy. I do not think there are very easy answers to that, but we can talk to the clothing industry about how we are going to ensure that these materials remain recyclable. Maybe we should do that in conjunction with that fast fashion. If that happens quickly and you can re-use all materials well, it is a very different story than when they are of such poor quality that they are not reusable. Again, it is not a subject for quick fixes, but it is a very legitimate point of attention of the Christian Union. It is something we should certainly include in the discussion on textiles. And again, Mrs Dik-Faber also said that the data on raw materials are new. I found out at some point that a T-shirt is 7,000 liters of water. You throw away jeans when there's a crack on the knee, but actually 95% of the fibers are still perfectly reusable for a new pair of jeans. If you don't have to produce it again with thousands of litres of water because you can reuse the fibers, we can do a lot of things with each other. It is a very appropriate point of attention. And as with the quality of the fabrics, let's take this into the conversation with the clothing industry. That's what we have this imvo conversation for, and we also have our own transition agendas. For this we can talk about this with our partners who want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u209	I welcome this commitment. I also wrote an own-initiative paper on this subject in the previous cabinet period. I don't know if the Secretary of State remembers it, but otherwise I'd be happy to send it to her. A number of points have been achieved but many points have not yet been achieved and I look forward to working with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u210	I like to have my memory refreshed at this point. Then, Mr President, I come to my last topic: a healthy and safe environment. First of all, I look at air quality. Mr Van Raan asked about the ruling on air quality and the fact that a new action plan would take another year. Mr Laçin wanted to know what short-term measures I am going to take to address the problem of particulate matter and nitrogen in order to comply with the WTO standard. I think it is indeed important to distinguish between the short and long term. The short term. The judge has recently given a ruling: The Netherlands has to comply with EU standards in the short term. There are a number of remaining bottlenecks. We actually know very well where they are. They are located in large cities such as Amsterdam and Rotterdam and around areas with a lot of livestock farming as Nederweert. Of course, I am going to give careful consideration to the verdict and I immediately started to deal with it. I do this neatly by adjusting the NSL and that just has a legal procedure, but I really started right away because we want this out of the world as soon as possible. The procedure has been laid down in the Environmental Management Act, which requires a number of steps, but we are really making as much haste as possible. The government agreement also states that, in the longer term, we will come up with a national air quality action plan, not to be confused with the aforementioned National Air Quality Cooperation Programme. That last one was already running, but it's ending now. We have decided on a national air quality action plan which is not aimed at European standards, but which is really intended to work permanently to improve air quality towards the WHO target value. Therefore, in 2018, on the basis of the advice of the Health Council on how to tackle this in the Netherlands, I will, together with local authorities and interest groups, look for measures that we can take to take further steps. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Eijs asked a question about the new national action plan, which should allow for environmental zones and local authorities' own policies. The government agreement does indeed allow municipalities to make their own choices as to whether they want to take additional measures for the air quality and health of their inhabitants. The possibility for a municipality to enter an environmental zone was already there and that possibility remains. We're even going to clarify the system a bit so that for example for an entrepreneur who drives around in the Netherlands in his van and has to be in different cities, it's clear everywhere what that sign means for the environmental zone. I think we all have an interest in that. In addition, there will be the possibility of differentiation of parking rates, so that, for example, cars that really do not have emissions can be parked cheaper in the city centre. We are not going to impose this nationally, but it is an instrument that we are going to offer to municipalities so that they can use it if they want to do more for indoor air quality. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say a few words about safety. I said it a little in my introduction: a risk-free society does not exist and therefore 100% guarantee does not exist, but we must continue to work towards a healthy and safe environment. This applies to particulate matter, toxic substances in the soil, the transport of dangerous substances and so on. From the incidents we have sometimes seen in industry, one can see that a good safety culture is really the basis for preventing and avoiding these incidents. In the end, it remains human work in those kinds of companies, just like working together in the chain. That is why I make safety deals with companies that aim to improve and strengthen the safety culture of companies, but that also means that I listen very carefully, for example, to residents who live in the immediate vicinity of a nuclear power plant or a chemical plant and who are concerned. One of my very first work visits was to the Bergen op Zoom region, and there I listened to the concerns of the people in that region about how their concerns are taken into account in the decisions in Belgium. My message to you is: a healthy and safe Netherlands is never finished. It's always looking together where it can do better. I'm sure your room will keep me on that. Mr. Chairman. I have now come to the end of my reply. I hope the Chamber has also experienced my cubes as bright.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u211	Very good. Then we can move quickly to the second term. Maybe there's one more question. Mr. Von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u212	Unfortunately, in the answer I do not hear a word about asbestos remodelling. Yesterday I asked about that. In the written reply, I can see that there will be an answer before Christmas. Is that answer merely an indication of the way things are going, or is there also a vision behind the question of how to proceed? I would like more attention to be paid to innovation, market forces and quality assurance and coordination. Too many ministries are involved, so I would very much like to see more coordination on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u213	I am afraid I cannot do so much about the fact that there are several ministries involved, because it is a wide-ranging problem. But I agree with Mr von Martels that we must ensure good coordination. That is also part of the solution he is asking for, because we may be able to speed up innovation, but perhaps also by linking smartly. If you're going to remodel your house because you're going to make it more sustainable, you can also remove the asbestos immediately and if you'd like to put solar panels on a farm barn, that can also be combined with removing the asbestos. There are programmes already running on this point. I have very specific attention to this and I would like to return to all these options. The letter that is to come will certainly contain a vision in that sense, but rather just concrete steps that we can take. It's a very important subject. The CDA rightly calls for a lot of attention to be paid to this. The SP also calls for attention to be paid to this. A lot of people do that here in the Chamber, because that disease is, of course, horrible and we really need to deal with that asbestos very carefully. Innovation, for example, can help greatly. The round table which the Chamber had on that matter recently was also very useful in that respect. Technological innovation, funding innovation, let's take advantage of all these options.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u214	Thank you for that answer. I hope that you will give a closer look at the extent to which we are now on schedule. Are we gonna get 2024 or not? And if not, what measures should we take to at least have good, ready-made solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u215	The challenge is great and 2024 is also a challenge. We will need all parties and all ideas to come up with a plan that is ambitious and feasible, within the framework conditions that we have. But we're definitely gonna talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u216	In the field of improving air quality, the Secretary of State mentioned, among other things, the environmental zones, which is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. Now I was recently in the Benelux Parliament. That instrument is a bit unknown, but useful. A recommendation was adopted, among other things, concerning the alignment of environmental zones throughout the Benelux countries, because Belgium is not a single system either. Wouldn't it be nice that if we cross the southern border, we still understand whether or not we're allowed into a city? Will the Secretary of State take a look at that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u217	It's a right point of attention. Of course, you'd like to have that as widely as possible. In the coalition agreement, we have already said: look at how things have been arranged in Germany, because at least you will have a certain degree of recognizability. I would very much like to look at the Belgian example before we come up with an unambiguous system. If we can learn from the neighbors and maybe there's a way to connect to that... I'll consider that. Of course, I cannot judge now whether that will help to clarify the situation or simply make it more complex, but I would like to take the suggestion with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u218	I also have a question about environmental zones. In fact, the whole of the Netherlands is a kind of environmental zone, because we want clean air everywhere. Fortunately, in a large part of the Netherlands we have the same. You rightly mention the cities of Amsterdam and Rotterdam, where we still have these bottlenecks, and of course the agricultural area. We made a deal about that. My question is: what standard is legally leading?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u219	Legally leading is the European standard. It's binding. This is also the aim of the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme, and that is what the judge's ruling is about. It is only about the legally binding EU standard, but because it is not the same as the standards recommended by the World Health Organisation, it has been said that we are going to look in a national action programme to see if we can take any further steps to get closer to it. But that's different from a binding standard. It is an ambition, but not a binding standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u220	Clear. At the same time, you see initiatives in various places, where they may have problems but perhaps not, to ban things. One does it with mopeds, the other does it with cars, with diesels, with trucks and so on. We have also agreed that there should be uniformity, because there is now some kind of mess of signage. When can we expect such a thing? And again, what standard are we going to use? 'Cause right now, everyone's taking advantage of each other to be stricter than the neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u221	We have binding European standards for bottlenecks. In addition, municipalities themselves have the freedom to take further measures for the health of their inhabitants. You can't be below that standard, but you can be above it. It is not a standard in the sense of: you must do this and you must not deviate from it. So it's a different kind of standard. The need for clarity is very clear. That is also an assignment from the coalition agreement and I am going to carry it out. The points that Mr Dijkstra is now raising will certainly be taken into account, as will Mrs Van Eijs' suggestion to make even greater clarity. I'll come back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u222	We have been talking about all kinds of environmental rules all evening, but the word 'enforcement' has been very few, and we are very concerned about that. That was in my contribution, too. Environmental policy is as good as it is maintained. We are concerned about the capacity shortage at the ILT. We hear it from all sides: the situation around Chemours with the discharges from GenX, the safety issues around Schiphol that emerge from the OVV report. There's a mission. The budget is now 103 million. We are really concerned about the implications for security. Are the directors willing to have a review of the impact of the assignment on the possibilities for the ILT to carry out its task?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u223	I understand Mrs Kröger's focus very well. Indeed, enforcement is crucial for real implementation of environmental policy. If you have nice rules on paper but cannot enforce them, if the threat of enforcement is not credible, you run the risk of being lifted. The link she puts one-on-one between "you can maintain enough" and "how many people you have" I don't share with her. The question is how to use these people. If you assume that an inspection is always an inspector feet on the ground in the company, then she's right. However, it is becoming increasingly important to be able to make the right analysis and sometimes to be able to estimate via ICT systems: if I see a deviation from something that is normal, then I have a red light on and send someone there. Or if we see companies where there are often incidents, we're going to check in particular. In addition to the size, people's commitment is important. That is precisely what we are very keen on. This is all part of the ILT's new strategy, which is now being implemented. I hope that we will see the results of this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u224	I understand that an efficiency blow is being made by the ILT with a different strategy. But an ILT-wide risk analysis that is now being used is something other than the question: what are the impact of year-on-year cuts, cuts in the capacity of the ILT? Because it is such a crucial issue for the safety of residents, of everyone in the Netherlands, we would really like to be vetted by an external party on what the implications of this task are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u225	It is precisely because the ILT is so important that this cabinet has chosen not to make additional cuts on the ILT, for example. I'd like to take care of that misunderstanding. It's more than some kind of efficiency hit. It is really a different approach, making as much of the capacity as possible to improve the quality of enforcement and inspection as possible. It's more than an efficiency blow. It's really good thinking about how to control these companies as best you can. You can never be with everyone every day, no matter how many inspectors you have. You really need to think very carefully about how to use these people as effectively as possible. That is what is happening, and that is what we are working hard on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u226	The Secretary of State has replied in writing to my questions on satsumas, quite a subject, for which I am grateful. But the answers were disturbing and raised more questions. This cabinet, like the previous cabinet, has said that a legislative amendment is being made to allow a sales ban for individuals, should this be necessary. When's this law change coming to the Chamber? The cabinet has also said that in 2018 it will be considered whether legal measures are needed. The written response we received in this debate suddenly spoke about 2019. That's what I'm worried about. Finally, the question of the remaining exceptions to the ban on the use of pesticides outside agriculture. Those green deals will end in 2020. Can we agree with the Secretary of State that those exceptions will really be in the past by 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u227	When I was not sitting with Mrs Ouwehand at the beginning of the evening, I thought: it will not be true that I miss the opportunity to speak with those who know most about plant protection products or pesticides, it is just which way you are looking at it - about this. We have had many debates together on imidacloprid, neonicotinoids and now, fortunately, the better-spoken. It is right that the Party for Animals always pays attention to this, because they are really substances that we say with each other: we have to deal with them very carefully, keep researching them and stay very alert. We will. Then there is the legislation. I understand an AMvB has entered into force. With the exception of the section on private individuals, because the Council of State considered that it was not practicable and enforceable on that point. Then I will come back to what Mrs Kröger just said: you must be able to maintain it, otherwise it will not do you much good. Although we might want it to be different, it is wise, if that is then the judgment, not to do so. Then you can do nothing at all or you can make a green deal and see if that way you can do more. That is my preference and I am sure Mrs Ouwehand would prefer it. That green deal has been closed and if I understood correctly, but I am also happy to be corrected, because we can take stock of the balance in 2019. So we see what this contributes and whether we can reduce this use as much as possible if it cannot be done properly with legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u228	I'm feeling a little shocked, because the Secretary of State is of course new to the Ministry and I have detailed questions. A legislative amendment is under way to allow for a possible ban on sales to private individuals. We have been working on this for a year, and just before this debate began, we have received a letter from the Minister of Agriculture, co-signed by the Secretary of State IenW, which states that this legislative amendment is still under way. I'd like to know when it's coming to the Chamber. There is a real discussion about whether this cabinet will see in 2018 whether these voluntary measures have been enough or whether legal steps need to be taken, or whether it has suddenly become 2019. So far it's been 2018. Maybe the civil servants need to dive in for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u229	We'll have a little more time to figure it out. When it comes to a law that lies primarily with Mrs Schouten, it is probably a different legislative process from what I was referring to here. Let's see if we can clarify that for you for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u230	That's great. And then the other applications outside agriculture by professionals, on bungalow parks and in ornamental gardens. Those green deals run until 2020. I would like to agree with this Secretary of State that this is really the end date for those exceptions to the use of pesticides, i.e. the bungalow parks, the ornamental gardens and the railroad. Let's agree that in three years' time we'll be out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u231	I understand Mrs Ouwehand's wish very well. I say to her that I will look very closely at it and take into account her question. I'll get back to you on that. I do think it is important that you properly evaluate a green deal when you close it, take the results well into your final decisions and do not get ahead of it immediately. But I understand the question, certainly from Mrs Ouwehand, very well. We're gonna take a look at it. I'll see if I can come back specifically in the second term to the question about 2018 or 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u232	Mr Van Raan, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u233	You got it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thanks to the Secretary of State for recognizing the image of the gap and also for training on it, that this split attitude can be maintained. But I can assure you, Secretary of State, that 12,000 days in a split will not survive a human being. So we'd still recommend making some system changes, so you don't have to be in that gap at all. Speaking of which, uh...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u234	Ask a ballerina, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u235	After 12,000 days, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u236	Shall we go back to the subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u237	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Air quality and court ruling. The Secretary of State says: we're going to tackle the NSL and the Netherlands are going to do it. I think the Secretary of State should realize that she is the Netherlands in this matter, so she should do it. She represents the Dutch state in this matter. She says, "We're gonna change the NSL." But the essence of the conviction is that NSL is not right. So there's got to be more to it than an adjustment. In addition, we have been told that some municipalities say "on the statement of the Secretary of State who says: we are going to talk to the municipalities, because we have to do so together that there is simply not enough money. Can the Secretary of State confirm that image? A second interruption, because I still have one left if it is right; thank you, President-in-Office of the Council, is about ultra-fine dust. We have already established in the case of interruption that, despite the fact that there is an investigation into ultra-fine dust, the plans for enlargement, in this case at Schiphol, will continue. So if we conclude that it was very harmful, that's too bad. Anyway, the Secretary of State is willing to take that risk. I have a request to the Secretary of State. Other places where a lot of ultra-fine dust is released are where intensive livestock farming is carried out. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take measurements there too, so that we do not go after the facts? Because sitting in a gap and chasing the facts is a very strange picture. So is the Secretary of State prepared to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u238	That's a really weird picture. Let's not do that. I'll answer the questions. Mr Van Raan says that the NSL is no good. We've solved a lot of bottlenecks. I think that is the argument that the NSL is not good, at least it has been undermined. However, there are remaining bottlenecks. We've got to get to it fast. For that, I need to work with the cities and the municipalities that have these bottlenecks. That's what we're gonna do. Mr Van Raan asked about the money. There's money for that, too. So that's what we're gonna do. Mr Van Raan asked for ultra-fine dust. This is not yet a specific standard. It is of course something that we have very sharp on our retina and we have to pay close attention to. We have to keep looking at what we can do about it. But, as I said, there is no specific standard. So we just need to see what's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u239	Well, then, apparently, this was the deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u240	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's where I was at the end. However, I have received some answers to a few questions that I have not yet been able to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u241	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u242	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u243	I would just like to respond to what the Secretary of State said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u244	Then you must do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u245	I'm waiting for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u246	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State says the NSL isn't working enough. That's not the essence. The judge ruled that the NSL doesn't work. That's not what the Party for Animals says. That's what the judge says. An adjustment to that is not enough; that is actually the thesis. It is true that world health standards are not a guiding principle, but I would like to ask for measurements to be carried out in places where the world health standards are exceeded, also in the vicinity of livestock farms. The Secretary of State says he's gonna look into that. Can I take that as a commitment that we will discuss that measurement will take place there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u248	For ultra-fine dust, there is no standard yet. It is therefore difficult to see where a standard is exceeded and what you have to measure. We will certainly be discussing this national action programme, which is the successor to the NSL. Then let's see how we can deal with it in a good way where there are concerns. The Health Council therefore comes up with an opinion on what you should pay particular attention to in the Netherlands. This is a very important basis for the national action programme. I really do not agree with Mr Van Raan that the NSL is not working. We need to tackle bottlenecks. That's right. The NSL has not yet worked sufficiently. I agree with him. There are still problems, but that is different from the fact that the NSL system, in which we work together with governments to tackle bottlenecks and make money available for them, would not work. We still have challenges. The judge told me to take care of it. That's what I'm gonna do. There's money for that, too. Then there were a few questions from Mrs Van Eijs and Mr Jetten. When will I come back to weighing up the CO price in socially responsible purchases? At the moment, the possibilities are being explored. An opinion is expected in spring 2018. Furthermore, in IenW and in Rijkswaterstaat in SMBAs, CO prices are already included, I say to Mrs Van Eijs. Then Mr Jetten had a question about the ICU supplement directly. The NS will use the Travellers' Fund after consultation with Traveller Organisations to temporarily abolish the ICU surcharge directly in off-peak hours until the amount is exhausted. It is now clear that from the start of the new timetable there will be no temporary surcharge between 9.30 a.m. and 4 p.m., and 7 p.m. and 6.30 a.m. on working days, and on weekends throughout the day. The surcharge in rush hour and half hour thereafter remains to avoid larger hustle and bustle with additional nuisance. You also had a question about Dordrecht-Breda. Not only could I remember that, as I said before, it is a long-term dossier, but the concerns about the operation of Dordrecht have also been clearly felt by the NS. There is a subsidy to have an intercity run once an hour in the 2017 and 2018 timetable, specifically to address that concern. So that's what a grant is given by the Ministry of IenW. I will return to you in more detail in writing for the new timetable, so that will be next week. Mr President, those were the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u249	Well, then we're up again! It was starting to go a little towards the MIRT, I determined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u250	We managed to prevent that just in time, Mr President. But the MIRT is coming, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u251	Yes. Is there a need for a short suspension for motions and that sort of thing, or can we just go on? Yeah, two minutes? Then I'll suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u252	We still have an hour to speak if I add up all the speaking time. If there are any more interruptions and questions of detail, it will be even longer. Then we have the government's second term. You'll soon have a nice MIRT. That always takes at least eight hours, I thought; you'll have to preside over it. And there's gonna be an AO Track in January. Then you can question the Secretary of State. So you can also keep it short and pointy, is the only suggestion I would like to give you. Otherwise, we're gonna end up way behind midnight today. Mr Van Aalst will set an example. He has the floor for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u253	Mr President, I am going to do my best. At least I won't be filibustering. The Minister states that the traffic sample, which was largely brought to life by Rutte II and Kunduz, is intended to address the savings of 6.4 billion. However, outside the already distributed 2 billion shows little of that. Because structuralally, only a small 100 million per year is added, whereas according to the Mobility Alliance at least 1 billion per year is needed for this. I therefore wish the Minister every success in explaining to the Mobility Alliance why this cabinet would rather spend billions on Africa and foreign shareholders than on our Dutch infrastructure, while it is also important for the climate for the multinationals who want to settle here that our infrastructure should not be completely shut down. Anyway, this cabinet of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristianUnion apparently makes different choices. Mr. Chairman. But also within the resources available on the infrastructure budget and the infrastructure fund that we are dealing with today, we can make sensible choices to reduce that congestion sample. I have already put forward three constructive proposals for this in the first period. So that explains the next three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Knowledge Institute for Mobility Policy (KiM) has found that the mobility needs of Dutch people have remained virtually unchanged over the past ten years;]] [[Whereas the current allocation of financial resources for the various modalities does not meet the mobility needs of the Dutch;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the allocation of financial resources for infrastructure to the total mobility needs of the Dutch population,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u254	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently a mess of six speed regimes on our main road network;]] [[Whereas this is hardly possible for motorists;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the maze of speed regimes on the main road network by reducing them from six to two regimes, namely the standard maximum speed of 130 km/h and a lower speed of 100 km/h on roads where this is necessary for road safety reasons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u255	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is wise to use the available asphalt better in order to combat congestion;]] [[calls on the Government to convert as many peak and plus lanes as possible from at least the left lane to full lanes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u256	Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, the PVV is seriously concerned that this cabinet underestimates the problem of congestion. We will therefore continue to insist that this Minister keeps the gas on and that he will realize 1,000 kilometres of extra asphalt as soon as possible. Hence one final question: when can the Chamber expect the National Water State File Approach 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u257	Thank you. Mr Remco Dijkstra from the VVD group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Investing in tough infrastructure remains very much needed; we have heard that. The VVD wants to continue the construction and widening of roads. We want to start with this soon, because the social costs of congestion are up to EUR 3.7 billion a year. Fortunately, there is some money, because despite the investments, congestion will continue to increase. We need to combat this with additional and wider avenues and addressing urgent bottlenecks. Mr. Chairman. Innovation is also taking place in public transport. I'm glad that world doesn't stand still. I believe that as a Chamber and you as Secretary of State, we should continue to keep the monopolist NS sharp. I read in the NRC this morning that the pressure worked. We have to keep doing that. We do this not for ourselves or for the NS, but for the people who just want to come decently and in time with the O.V. from A to B. Mr. Chairman. Finally, road safety. Apps as motorist or driver just can't. It can't be. That's why the VVD wants the sentence to go up. In the event of a serious or even fatal accident, you should be able to classify it as reckless driving. The bill is already in preparation. I want appetizers added to that. As far as the VVD is concerned, a cause of an accident will not end up with community service. In the event of a recidivism, you're never allowed to drive again and you've lost your driver's license; I've already told you that. We want to increase road safety, not only through prevention and enforcement, but also by setting the standard and tackling the use of the smartphone behind the wheel, which is only increasing. I have a number of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u259	One second. Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u260	As far as the penalty is concerned, the VVD colleague is in the wrong debate. The budget treatment of Justice and Security is also taking place at the moment. I would say that the motions on this issue can best be submitted to Justice and Security, because that is the relevant ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u261	But I stand for this debate. This is the same room. We'll reconvene tomorrow. The other way around, I've seen it, too. A colleague of the CDA who does the Justice Department also started talking about appendaging. So in that respect, there is good cooperation in the cabinet. My appeal is now towards the minister and the cabinet. It certainly needs to be consulted with its colleague in the field of Justice and Security to see what is possible, so that it can be enforced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u262	Fine. You still have a few motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u263	Yes, thank you. The first motion deals with bottlenecks on freight corridors. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that overcrowded areas along the main road network during nights and weekends and parking trucks on the escape lane seriously endanger road safety;]] [[noting that there are insufficient alternatives in the form of secure truck parking with sufficient facilities;]] [[noting that the MIRT study on East and South East freight corridors supports the need for a number of additional large-scale truck parkings to provide an alternative to the care facilities;]] [[noting that it is in the interests of road safety, traffic flow and crime prevention, and also urgent, to address these acute bottlenecks as quickly as possible;]] [[calls on the Government, within the MIRT programme, to examine, together with the regions and market players, whether there is a state-of-the-art area near these acute bottlenecks where security, private truck parking could be achieved in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Remco Dijkstra and Mr Von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u264	Then my second motion. I have four in total, Mr. Chairman. This motion concerns the flow after incidents. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the event of incidents, the lane should be cleared as soon as possible to limit traffic jams resulting from incidents and prevent economic damage caused by traffic jams;]] [[Whereas traffic jams arise or worsen due to the frequent delay in clearing the lane until a mountaineer is on the spot;]] [[Considers that delayed storage can facilitate the flow by "slide" the vehicle as quickly as possible on the side or in any other safe way elsewhere, so that it no longer causes any inconvenience to the rest of the traffic;]] [[calls on the Government to apply this method wherever possible in order to improve the flow after incidents and to tackle the congestion sample,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Remco Dijkstra and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u265	Mr. Chairman. The third motion: tackling the traffic monster with asphalt. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that road traffic continues to grow and that this could increase the travel time loss by 28% in 2022 compared to 2016;]] [[noting that this expected growth is partly offset by an expansion of the road network;]] [[noting that the social costs of congestion and delays on the national road network are between EUR 2.8 billion and EUR 3.7 billion per year;]] [[Whereas, according to the National Market and Capacity Analysis, it is known exactly where and to what extent traffic congestion problems are greatest;]] [[calls on the Government to keep the congestion sample as small as possible by continuing to invest in asphalt, taking the NMCA as a starting point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u266	Then my final motion, on the approach not to append in the car, followed by a final remark. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are regular dramatic road accidents due to appendictions and the use of a smartphone in traffic;]] [[Whereas this may lead to indescribable suffering and the social indignation at the penalties imposed may sometimes be severe;]] [[Whereas a successful approach to preventing appendictions in traffic should always include prevention, targeted enforcement and sanctioning;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet is preparing a bill on "Reckless Driving" which will contain proposals for an increase in the penalty ceiling for a number of offences and for a more detailed interpretation of the concept of recklessness;]] [[Considers that car appendictions can also be described as reckless driving, as it can lead to the same consequences as alcohol or drug use, which are fatal accidents;]] [[calls on the government to step up its efforts to prevent, target and sanction appendecides behind the wheel;]] [[calls on the government to involve behind the wheel in the bill of duty-free driving,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Von Martels and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u267	The last motion speaks for itself. I understand how hard it is. It has to hold up legally. I hope people won't be able to get away with a task force. I also hope that the Minister will do everything in her power, together with her colleague for Justice and Security, to achieve this socially important point. That really is a calling I feel as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u268	Thank you. Then Mrs Kröger from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u269	Mr. Chairman. The transition to a climate-neutral and circular economy and society requires great ambitious steps. That's why I'm filing the next three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in order to achieve the international climate objectives, the aviation sector must make its contribution;]] [[Whereas for short flights within Europe the train could be a good alternative;]] [[calls on the Government, building on the Future Image OV, to carry out an analysis of what is needed to allow the international traveller to choose the most environmentally friendly alternative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in a fully circular economy there is no room for persistent substances because they accumulate in the environment and are not, or are very bad, degradable;]] [[Whereas, in the Rijkswide programme Circular Economy, the aim is to be fully circular in the Netherlands by 2050;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is currently working with Germany to extend the "Very Concernful Substances" criteria, but it still needs to be supported at European level;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the Dutch industry, to agree on the phasing out of the use of persistent substances and to make these arrangements part of the transition agendas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Jetten and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u270	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas monitoring and enforcement are essential for the proper implementation of (environmental) policies;]] [[noting that the Inspection Environment and Transport should carry out more tasks by less means;]] [[considers that there is insufficient understanding of the risks to society, workers and the environment associated with the current staffing and upcoming cuts in the Leefenvironment and Transport Inspection;]] [[calls on the Government to have an external party review the consequences of the decreasing budgets of the inspection and to discuss them with the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u271	Then Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the importance of road and rail safety and the fact that public authorities, railway and bus companies employ many drivers and drivers;]] [[noting that the government is setting a good example by making distractions by smartphone use technically impossible for its own drivers during the journey;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with all relevant authorities and transport companies to make smartphone use technically impossible during the journey, so that in 2018, for example, the first 1,000 vehicles drive it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that modern cars are technically capable of supporting the driver to drive safer and more environmentally friendly;]] [[Whereas not all drivers are familiar with these options;]] [[calls on the government to agree with the sector to guide drivers with the driver support options, for example by giving a practical introduction to the purchase of a new car;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, in consultation with the driving school industry and the CBR, that driving lessons pay sufficient attention to these modern options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of deaths and serious injuries has been increasing for a number of years;]] [[noting that "appen" can also be technically prevented by drivers using mobile phones;]] [[whereas the ban has so far proved not to be sufficiently successful since 2002;]] [[Calls on the Government to cooperate with the sectors concerned in the first quarter of 2018 (car, insurance, telecommunications, etc.) See how technology can be used to prevent the use of distraction devices by drivers and inform the Chamber about this before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-24]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-25]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u274	Then Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to repeat what I said yesterday. Less traffic jams, more safety; that's what it came down to. I have noticed in the response of these new rulers that they want to pursue this forcefully. I am therefore confident that this goal will be achieved. I have three motions. I'd like to read it to you at this point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas road safety through the use of the smartphone in traffic is decreasing in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas awareness of the use of the smartphone by tapping or texting people should be increased;]] [[calls on the government to engage actively in talks with telecom companies to explore the possibilities for using smart technology against the use of the telephone in traffic,]] [[calls on the government to launch an active and intensive campaign to make everyone aware of the dangers of using the smartphone in traffic to prevent even more unnecessary victims,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr von Martels and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u276	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas cyber attacks on vital infrastructure are a real risk;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the risks of cyber attacks on the Dutch infrastructure (locks, bridges, road marking, etc.) and to take necessary measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr von Martels and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u277	And finally: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas road safety is decreasing in the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is very important that the N-roads are equipped with a high-speed road safety system;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the road managers, to draw up a structural overview and evaluation of the road adjustments of N-roads which will make it easier to understand whether the adapted road layout in practice also improves safety on the N-roads,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u278	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands mobile and accessible: this is important for the CDA. This applies to the city and the region, but also across the border. We have two motions. We do not table one motion in view of the hand-out given by the Secretary of State on the Meuse Line. We look forward to working together. We have a motion on cross-border rail. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas rail links with Belgium and Germany are important for connectivity and the regional economy;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate further the opportunities and intentions of all possible cross-border train connections and to inform the Court of Justice in mid-2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr von Martels, Mr Jetten, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Ziesgs.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u279	Then the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas optimum use should be made of the capacity of the existing rail system;]] [[Whereas the purchase of new train equipment and the reduced purchase of double-deck trains have created a problem of adjustment capacity;]] [[Whereas the withdrawal of traces from service in connection with, for example, maintenance also reduces the capacity of the rail;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the railway manager and users, to draw up a plan to make the most of the existing capacity of the rail,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr von Martels, Mr Ziegs, Mr Jetten and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u280	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have four motions, which I will briefly explain. In the debate on Lelystad Airport, the Minister specifically referred to the Chamber and the decision of the Chamber. That's why I'm appealing to the Chamber with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that additional flight movements to and from Lelystad Airport do not take place before the airspace has been reorganised in a way that minimises nuisance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u282	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that this cabinet is investing EUR 2 billion more in infrastructure;]] [[noting, however, that for new projects this still goes according to the old-fashioned key, with the majority of investments in asphalt;]] [[Whereas, in view of the challenges to mobility, a continuous balance should be made between how resources are used;]] [[calls on the government to be open to a distribution of resources in the case of new investments from the Infrastructure Fund which is in line with the infrastructure task, taking into account the impact on the environment and climate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u283	More resources and more capacity are incredibly important for the SP to maintain well and decisively. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that under the heading of risk-driven supervision there has been significant savings on the ILT;]] [[noting that as a result, the field complains about the lack of knowledge and capacity at the ILT;]] [[Whereas this leads to insufficient detection and response to abuses, as appears, for example, in the transport sector and in discharges of chemicals;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a proposal for the spring note to reverse the austerity of the previous cabinet on the ILT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u284	You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u285	One final motion, very briefly. I want to encourage the Secretary of State to start working on the expansion of the deposit system. Her answers aren't entirely reassuring. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas both the House of Representatives and the former State Secretary supported the motion of the Plastic Soup Surfer which states that 90% of the plastic bottles should be removed from the litter;]] [[noting that existing pilots such as Clean Rewards have not led to a nationwide scalable system;]] [[noting that research has shown that extending the deposit system is effective in reducing plastic bottles and cans from the environment and several other European countries have successfully introduced this system;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an action plan to extend the existing deposit gel system as soon as possible with the collection of small plastic bottles and cans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u286	Mr President, thank you for your patience these two evenings. Thank you also to both directors for the comprehensive answer. D66 looks confidently at the coming years, in which this cabinet is going to focus on smart and clean mobility, more cycling and training, sustainability of aviation and strengthening our road safety. To give both regiments a push in the back, I have four motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a growing number of cyclists use a different type of bicycle than the classic city bike;]] [[noting that to date these bicycle users have not been sufficiently taken into account in the design of infrastructure and facilities;]] [[calls on the Government to take as much account as possible of electric bicycles, speed pedals and baking bikes in the construction of bicycle sheds and highways,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr von Martels, Mr Kröger and Mr Van Raan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u287	The second motion is about bike paths. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the public authorities should encourage bicycle use;]] [[noting that the coalition agreement agreed to reduce the increasing pressure on the road;]] [[calls on the Government to assess, in any new investment in infrastructure financed from state resources, whether a study on simultaneous improvement of cycling infrastructure in the area concerned is relevant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Van der Graaf, Mr von Martels and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u288	The next motion is about the hyperloop test site. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the hyperloop concept can allow rapid movement of persons and goods over long distances;]] [[Whereas a large-scale test site can lead to high-quality jobs and strengthen the Dutch knowledge economy;]] [[noting that TNO gave a positive opinion on the construction of a test track in Flevoland;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with hyperloop parties and private parties, to examine whether a viable business case can be made for an appropriate testing location for the hyperloop concept,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Remco Dijkstra and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u289	Finally. I am extremely pleased that the Minister's response indicated that she wants to use smart innovations in investments in roads, better use them and, where necessary, on additional asphalt to improve traffic flow and road safety. One of the projects has our special attention: the Noordelijke Randweg Utrecht. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an adaptation of the Northern Randweg Utrecht (NRU) contributes to improved traffic flow, road safety and cleaner air;]] [[Whereas Utrecht City Council and Provincial States have already reserved investment funds for this purpose;]] [[noting that in the coalition agreement it was agreed to address missing links in the road network and to work with the Utrecht region with the NRU;]] [[calls on the government to reach an agreement as soon as possible with the municipality and the province of Utrecht on the necessary investments for the NRU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u291	We're on 26 motions by now. That's the middle position. I call Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u292	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we thank the directors for their written and oral replies. We welcome the Secretary of State's ambition in the field of CO and buying it socially responsible. We look forward to the results of the survey in spring 2018. We are also very pleased with the commitment to further strengthen the European Union's ambitions to ensure cleaner cars and therefore cleaner air for our citizens. I also have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in previous years not all the items in the infrastructure and water State budget were fully used;]] [[Whereas air quality has a major impact on human health and can therefore contribute to the quality of life of people;]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement states that the Government intends to assume its responsibilities in this regard and to strive for continuous improvement of air quality;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with provinces and municipalities, to examine what is needed to launch the National Air Quality Action Plan and to inform the Chamber in spring 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u293	I'm coming to my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the raw materials agreement established transition agendas with the aim of making the Netherlands the world leader in the field of circular economy in different sectors by 2020;]] [[whereas there is currently no transition agenda for textiles, but there is a high environmental pressure on textile production and consumption;]] [[Noticed that the Salvation Army in the article From pants to slug? notes that there is a gap in the circular economy due to a lack of high-quality recycling;]] [[calls on the government to pay special attention to textiles in the implementation of the transition agenda for consumer goods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u294	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the directors for the first-term response. I have three points. The first is about the enforcement of trucks that come to park in the Netherlands on weekends. That still bothers me, because it overloads the border regions and the parking spaces and it is just unsafe on the road. Belgium maintains its position. Germany maintains its position. The Netherlands says that it is European complicated, that it is a legal problem and that we are not doing it. But that brings the trouble to us. So I would very much like to clarify this. This may not be possible in the second term, but in the short term. What's the legal problem? Isn't there something to come up with in order to maintain as much as possible in a creative way in the meantime? Maybe that shouldn't be naughty, but it should be creative. Then the circular economy. That's just what we've been talking about. This is an important subject, also for the years to come. At the initiative of the Labour Party, the Rijkswide programme Circular Economy was realized. Economics and the environment go together in that programme, but focus is needed to see promising sectors and above all to see them with up-to-date figures. We are on the right track, but we really need to do new jobs now. We need to know in which sectors this is possible. I therefore come to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Rijkswide Circular Economy programme offers many opportunities for the regional economy;]] [[Considering that, on behalf of the Ministry, a study was carried out in 2013 by TNO, Kanssen for the circular economy in the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that this report is based on 54 000 new jobs and represents cost savings of more than EUR 7 billion for business;]] [[calls on the government to carry out a study of current economic developments and figures, including labour market figures (how many jobs it provides) and which sectors are potentially viable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u295	Finally, Mr President. We have had a debate on the procurement of rail. I'm gonna have to make a motion on that. Perhaps we will come together in the near future, but let this motion be an incentive. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, after the expiry of the concession of NS on the main rail network in 2025, the Government intends to explicitly base itself on the option of tendering and market opening on the railways;]] [[noting that, at the moment, calls for tender on the main rail network (Eindhoven-Düsseldorf section) are already beginning to take a first step in opening up the market with potentially far-reaching consequences;]] [[Whereas there are concerns from both NS, passenger organisations and unions about the effects on quality and stability on a then fragmented main rail network;]] [[considers that it is important to have more insight into impacts and impacts on smaller initial procurement steps;]] [[calls on the Government to first work on a clear balancing framework, risk analysis and an international benchmark on government procurement before considering further market opening on the railways, both on a small scale and on a large scale,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u296	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to both directors for the answer. Due to time, I'd like to file three motions immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by Nature & Environment shows that 76% of the municipalities do not buy the fleet sustainably and do not require minimum environmental conditions;]] [[Whereas a number of municipalities set a good example, such as Utrecht, Leeuwarden, Groningen and Amsterdam;]] [[Whereas buses in public transport have been successfully managed to purchase 100% emission-free buses from 2025, and more and more companies are deciding to buy only electric vehicles from 2020-2025;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[identify how the minimum criteria for sustainable procurement of vehicles can be gradually increased in order to meet climate and air quality targets;]] [[set a good example in the case of sustainable procurement of vehicles;]] [[consult with the VNG on the results of the research, the removal of bottlenecks and improvements to sustainable vehicle procurement in the framework of the Manifest Corporate Responsibility Procurement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coalition agreement is committed to a green deal with the maritime, inland waterway and port sustainability sector;]] [[Whereas the inland waterway sector makes an important contribution to the relief of road traffic and the reduction of transport emissions;]] [[Whereas clean and hybrid engines and sailing on electric motors within port areas reduce emissions;]] [[Whereas the reduction of waiting times is likely to occur at locks and bridges, but also in ports through the realization of more quay kilometres;]] [[calls on the Government to involve the inland waterway sector closely in the implementation of the green deal, including cleaner engines and reduction of waiting times at ports, locks and bridges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is a broad shared and pronounced ambition to reduce the wandering by more than 90% within three years, as expressed in the adopted petition motion of the Plastic Soup Surfer;]] [[Whereas there has been a great deal of knowledge over the last period of time on the different alternatives for dealing with litter waste, for example through a practical trial with clean rewards and research into the effects of the introduction of deposit money for small bottles;]] [[believes that it is important to find a comprehensive solution that can achieve this ambition in good consultation with industry, local authorities, environmental organisations and consumer organisations;]] [[Calls on the Government to enter into consultations with the said parties with a view to submitting a proposal to the Chamber early 2018 for an effective package of measures against litter, including the results of the investigation, the pilot and the evaluation of the Packaging Framework Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Eijs and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-44]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Bishop and Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-45]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the rulers for the answer. I can see you guys are really excited. That's great. We have that, too, so it's gonna be a good time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the standardisation of environmental zones should not lead to any deterioration in air quality;]] [[calls on the Government to take an example of the German system of national emission classes and the size of the zone in order to standardise environmental zones,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all manufacturers of packaging materials make the same contribution to the waste fund per unit of packaging material, irrespective of the type of material produced;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to reduce the production of poor materials and to stimulate the innovation of materials with a higher environmental efficiency;]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals for differentiation of the financial contribution of packaging companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that litter causes hazards to animals by eating from them or being entangled in them;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for this litter to be shattered (further) during mowing and thereby to be further dispersed in the environment;]] [[calls on the government to instruct the Rijkswaterstaat to ensure that litter is disposed of along national roads before mown-up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Kröger and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-47]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Laçin and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-48]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u298	Then three more to go. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 36 kilos of unaddressed printed matter per household arrive each year and that this entails a significant environmental burden;]] [[noting that a system is being introduced in Amsterdam as of 1 January 2018 whereby households themselves can indicate with a yes-jasticker that they wish to receive printed matter (an opt-in system);]] [[Whereas a national introduction of this system would bring considerable environmental benefits and would also have the advantage of not having to regulate each municipality individually;]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal for the national introduction of a yes-jasticker for unaddressed printed matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u299	Then two more to go. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch State was ordered by the Hague Court on 7 September 2017 to comply with the air quality standards in the shortest possible time;]] [[Considers that the announcement of a new air quality action programme to be published by the end of 2018 does not comply with the "shortest possible time period' envisaged by the court;]] [[calls on the Government to remove all remaining bottlenecks as soon as possible by the end of the first quarter of 2018 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan, Mr Laçin and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u300	And the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Government has repeatedly stated its intention to pursue the WHO's air quality standards;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[calls on the Government to assist in granting authorisations in areas where air quality is between the EU standard and WHO values as a condition for an improvement plan to improve air quality towards WHO values,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u301	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u302	Thank you, Mr President. The use of poison outside of agriculture. There's two things going on. Professional users such as municipalities and land managers are no longer allowed to use chemical pesticides as fertilizers in their weed control since 1 November this year. That's good! But there are exceptions to that ban. There are green deals until 2020, but in view of the whole debate and the European Parliament's statement, we must agree that we can do so as much as we can outside agriculture. If you translate that pronunciation, everyone actually wants to get rid of it except the VVD and the SGP. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that as of 1 November 2017 a ban is in force for the use of chemical pesticides, including arthropods, by professional non-agricultural users;]] [[noting that there are still exceptions to this alliance on which green deals have been concluded that will expire in 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to the use of chemical pesticides outside agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u303	Mr. Chairman. The motion leaves room for the Secretary of State to evaluate the green deals as agreed in 2020 and is really intended as an intention to bet on complete termination. But the motion doesn't quite capture her, so she can read her. Then there is the use by private individuals, the sale of turnips and other pesticides to private individuals. The Chamber wanted to get rid of it. At that time, the cabinet said that this cannot be done without reason; we are restricting the use. You can buy it, but don't pour it on your tiles. Then there would be an evaluation in 2016. That was 2018. In the meantime, it seems that another year has been added, given the written reply of the Secretary of State. I hope that that is not true and that we are holding 2018 as an evaluation opportunity to see whether a legal ban should be introduced because these voluntary measures do not do enough. If we decide on this, we will need an amended law, and the ministry of these directors has been working on it for a year. It would be nice if we had that amendment of the law, because then at least that legal ground would be settled if we were allowed to decide on that sales ban. At least that won't be a problem anymore. So I have two questions. Do we hold on to 2018 to evaluate? And when is this change of law coming to the Chamber, so that at least we have the opportunity to proceed to a ban if we consider it sensible? I will tell you in advance that the Party for Animals is very much in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u304	Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u305	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS has taken the signals of the local representatives of Safe Traffic Netherlands and of the volunteers who give the scootmobile courses seriously. They have urged us to pay more attention to the safety of scooters. That is the goal of 50PLUS: more road safety and fewer victims in this group. Driving a scooter does indeed require some skills and conditions. I note, however, that not everyone, including the Minister, is not open to our request for certification, but we still want to take a step forward. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas road safety and the reduction of road accidents are of high priority;]] [[Whereas mobile scooters are expected to increase in the coming years;]] [[Considers that in the case of a scooter mobile vehicle control, knowledge and understanding of traffic rules are necessary for safe use;]] [[calls on the government to investigate, for example in the SWOV investigation, whether a form of certification promotes road safety,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u306	We look forward to SWOV's research with interest and will discuss it with the people who brought this issue to our attention as soon as it is available. As far as we're concerned, that can't be fast enough. We would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment on access to public transport for the elderly and disabled both in the Randstad and in the small centres of the region. I would also like to thank her for picking up the request to encourage the fine examples that exist in Rotterdam, Eindhoven or Amsterdam. It's nice that she wants to take that further. Thanks also to the Minister for her reply on the attention given to behind the wheel during driving training. We can't start with that early enough. At this point I had prepared a motion, but I do not have to submit it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u307	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Bishop of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u308	Mr President, thank you very much. Thank you also to the directors for the proper answers to the questions and the written preliminary work, and that of course also means thanks to the official support. I had two motions. One is going to be dropped, because that was the request to make agreements with other stakeholders with regard to reducing the number of fatalities. However, there is a clear commitment from the Minister on this point. I'd like to maintain the other motion. This concerns the focus of the connection of smaller cities to the railways. I found the written answer somewhat lean on that point. The Secretary of State has come back to that, but I would ask her to consider this motion as a support in the discussion with NS. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that intercity connections and public transport connections for smaller cities are regularly compromised;]] [[believes that as far as possible efforts to speed up connections between larger cities should be avoided at the expense of the accessibility of smaller cities;]] [[calls on the government to include the accessibility of smaller cities as a separate focus in the policy priorities letter for the NS, future concession granting and the Future Public Transport Statue 2040,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Ziegs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XII-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u309	It's the only chance he has left, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u310	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that Mr Bishop is addressing a very sympathetic issue. I have already called for attention to be paid to a number of other cities. I would like to ask Mr Bishop if he agrees with me that at these intercity stops we should not only look at whether it is a large or small city, but also what hinterland serves such an intercity stop, because you often see that the hinterland is forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u311	Clear. I am tabling this motion because I have to think of the austerity of the rail link from Zeeland. Pressure from the region, the hinterland, and from pressure from the Chamber finally intervened. For example, there are a few examples. That is why I would urge the Secretary of State to ensure that the NS takes a careful look at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u312	Thank you. I will suspend until 30 November, and then we will listen to the answers of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u313	I think we're gonna be the first to listen to the minister. We have 42 motions and three amendments. I propose that we limit the interruptions and the questions, at least to the authors of the motions in question and then to the first authors of them. It's late, but we shouldn't be making it unnecessary. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna do my best to keep it compact. There were two more questions I had to answer. The first was from Mr Van Aalst of the PVV. When can the Chamber expect the National Water State File Approach 2020? I will send it to you in the first quarter of 2018. The second question that was still open was from the PvdA and related to driving and rest periods. In the context of time, I would like to refer you once again to the motion of 13 December 2016 by SP member Karabulut. Afterwards, the Chamber was informed that national legislation does not allow for the maintenance of overnight stays in the cabin, because it is not prohibited. Furthermore, in the letter to the House of Representatives, it was clearly stated that questions for a preliminary ruling were raised in Belgium. We therefore have no legal basis for imposing a fine, as has been explained to Mrs Karabulut. I come to the amendments, starting with the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Van Aalst of the PVV. In the written answer to Mr Laçin's question, I have already indicated that the deployment of additional road inspectors is not necessarily the most effective. In addition, resources are needed to carry out all kinds of other planned tasks and investigations. We have also seen them pass the review today. These activities could no longer be carried out. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u315	Mr Van Aalst, briefly, pointy, once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question. I hear the Minister saying that she does not really think it is necessary to increase capacity. The 2015 ILT-wide risk analysis shows 76 fatal accidents involving heavy goods vehicles, 25% of which are due to overfatigue. We could have prevented that simply with controls and enforcement. We have now tabled an amendment with a cover that is relatively flexible as far as we are concerned. In any case, it is a good cover with non-legally compulsory expenditure. In fact, we hope that the Minister will look at it again, especially because there is broad support from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u317	I'm gonna have to keep this from me. The ILT is only relatively short on the new risk-driven monitoring and on the new priorities. I think it is far too early to depart from that. I come to the amendment to item No. 12 by Mrs Kröger. This is another point on which I do not recommend the judgment. I have two arguments for this. The first, not very unimportant, is that there is inadequate coverage for it. More content: you cannot measure future developments. That's what we talk about when we talk about the important files here. Measuring the already existing air traffic and validating it later is already happening. On that basis, you can also make adjustments. I must advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u318	Mrs Kröger, once, briefly and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u319	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister and I seem to have differing views on how we calculate at the moment and the role of measurements in it. I would very much like to receive a letter from the Minister explaining to the Chamber how measurements of real noise are currently used every year to validate calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u320	I suggest that we continue to do so in the forthcoming debates, because that is a very technical exercise for now. I see you typing, but we're not gonna do that anymore. We will come back to that in the future. We're gonna have enough debate about this. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 13 by Mrs Van Tongeren. I'm going to dissuade that, too. First of all, as with the previous one, because of inadequate coverage. Secondly, we are already working with the ANWB to understand how people experience new technology and can use it best. We do not need an extra budget for this at the moment. We can do that with the current resources. Then I'll get to the motions. Let me get them out of the folder. First of all, the motion in part No. 14 by Mr Van Aalst. I would advise against this motion, because it wants a different distribution key from that agreed in the coalition agreement. The motion in part No. 15, also from Mr Van Aalst, I should also like to advise against, because with the speed policy I reduce the number of changes in speed by introducing more and more routes 130. On some routes this is not possible either because of road safety or for environmental reasons, or only at very high costs. There we drive 80, 100 or 120. Then the motion to part No. 16 by Mr Van Aalst. I see some more possibilities with that, if we can agree that we will only do so wherever it is effective. By implementing existing projects, some 25% of the current peaks will be converted in the coming years. If you want me to explain it in such a way that we only do it where it is effective, I could say that I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u321	That is why we have also corrected towards "as much as possible." That seems to us to be an effective motion and therefore an effective one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u322	Fine. Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 17 by Mr Dijkstra and Mr von Martels on the bottlenecks on freight corridors. I could see this action as an impetus and as a support for policy. The opinion is therefore the Court's opinion. The motion in part No. Mr Dijkstra's 18 is about the traffic sample and, above all, about the flow following incidents. I see this motion as part of the catch-up I myself will be working on in the short term. This is how I come to judgment, Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 19 by Mr Dijkstra on tackling the traffic monster with asphalt. This is actually exactly what we're working on. In this case, I'd say we're taking over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u323	If no one has any objections. And that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u324	Then the motion to part No. 20 of Dijkstra, Van der Graaf, Von Martels and Sienot. That is the motion on the approach not to get into the car, which we have been talking about for a long time. In the policy response to the investigation into the criminalisation of serious traffic offences sent to the Chamber on 20 July, my colleague JenV has already announced that he is preparing a proposal to amend the Road Traffic Act. It is expected that this bill will be consulted in early 2018. I will pass on your Chamber's requests to the Minister of JenV and I will ask him to take this into account when drafting the bill. That's how we agreed, and if we explain it that way, I can give the advice judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u325	I need to talk about the motion in part No. 19 to say that it is no longer a separate subject of the debate and is therefore not going to be put to the vote. It's a formality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u326	Okay. Fine. Then I come to the motion on part No. 23 of GroenLinks, the PvdA and the Party for Animals. I advise against this motion, which calls on the government to carry out an external review of the consequences of the mandate on the ILT. And just as I indicated in an earlier motion, the ILT is just working on the new way of working. I therefore think it is far too early for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u327	And so she's being dissuaded, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u328	Yes. Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u329	Mrs. Kröger, at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u330	I understand the Minister says we're just working on this procedure. Does this mean that it would give a positive opinion on such a review at a different time, for example one year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u331	I do not think it is wise to anticipate whether we should do so after a year. Such a change of course from such a large organization is not something you manage very quickly. I think we should take a little longer for that. Then I come to the motion on part No. 24 by Mrs Van Tongeren. I'd like to discourage that motion, too. I'm going to work with the partners to avoid distractions in traffic. We very much agree on the objective, but I do not want to commit to target groups or figures. Then the motion to part No. 25 by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Sienot on driver support in modern cars. I had already mentioned this in the first period and in the written answers. In fact, Mrs Van Brenk has already said that she withdrew her motion because I had already promised enough. In this case, I think I can take over the motion because I'm already doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u332	Is there any objection to that? That is not the case. Oh, yeah? Yeah, one person objects to it. Then we'll just put the motion to the vote. Then you'll have to make a judgment, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u333	The judgment was taken over. I think it's kind of crazy to vote on it after all. I'm sorry for Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u334	Ms Kröger withdrew her objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u335	Then I come to the motion on part No. 26 by Mrs Van Tongeren. He sees it on the road. We have exchanged enough about this. The Covenant launched with 44 parties was also prepared by the branches. New techniques are being developed. I think we'd all like to take advantage of that. The opinion here is Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 27 is also about the smartphone in traffic. It calls on the cabinet to launch an intensive campaign. We have already indicated that we already have that plan. We're already working on that. So in this case, I'd like to take over the motion as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u336	Von Martels/Remco Dijkstra motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u337	Then I'll continue with the motion on part number one. 28. I can immediately state that he is receiving the same advice, namely that I am taking her over. I've already indicated to the AO Transport Council myself this week that cybersecurity is my first priority. With everything that is called for in this motion, I am already working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u338	Von Martels/Amhaouch motion (No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u339	Then the motion to part No. 29 by Mr von Martels on road safety on the N-roads. I should like to ask Mr von Martels something about that. In most of the N-roads, the provinces are on the move. As a state government, we are only responsible for a limited part of the N-roads. If Mr von Martels asks for a structural overview and an evaluation of road adjustments on our own roads, I would like to leave the judgment Chamber, but I cannot, of course, undertake things that the provinces are about. He will then have to submit this in the various CDA groups in Provincial States. So if I could explain the motion like that, I could make it a Chamber of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u340	I think you're right about that. In that sense, I would like to amend the motion so that it is clear that it is N-roads in which the government is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u341	If we agree to explain to her that it is about the national roads, then I think I can just leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u342	Then you don't have to adjust her, either. The judgment on the motion in part No. I'll leave 29 to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u343	Yes. In the motion in part No. 32 of the SP states: additional flight movements Lelystad Airport not earlier than that the airspace has undergone a reclassification. I think I have already said enough about this in the first term, which makes it clear that I am not recommending this motion. The Laçin/Van Raan motion to item No. 33 calls for new investments from the Infrastructure Fund to match the allocation of resources with the infrastructure, and for the environment and climate to be given more weight. That is also contrary to what we agreed in the coalition agreement, so I am going to discourage it. The Laçin/Van Raan motion to item No. 34 calls on the government to reverse Rutte II's austerity on the ILT. In line with previous opinions, I also advise against this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 38 on the hyperloop. I do not see any objection to leaving the opinion to the Chamber. The motion by Mr Jetten/Van der Graaf in part No. 39 is about the flow on the Noordelijke Randweg Utrecht. That is where the advice is to keep it until the MIRT briefing, because I do not want to go into any of the projects here. I would like to draw the same line in all the projects mentioned by the various parties and say that we would like to consult the directors first and then I will come back to your Chamber. So if you want to arrest her, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u344	That is not so much an opinion as a question for Mr Jetten whether or not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u345	If the Minister can promise that she will also discuss the NRU at the administrative meetings, I will hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u346	I can promise you that right now. I'm sure that's going to come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u347	At the request of Mr Jetten, I propose his motion (34775-XII, No. 39). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u348	The motion-Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 45 calls on the government to involve the inland waterway sector closely in the implementation of the green deal. I'd be happy to. The opinion is: Judgement Chamber. Then I come to the Van Raan/Kröger motion on item No. 49 on the litter. I also have a question for Mr Van Raan on interpretation. Can we explain this in a reasonable way, in the sense that we clean up the first of that litter along the highways in a reasonable way? After all, something can be thrown out of the window at any time and you will never mow again. If we can explain that in a reasonable way, then I could take over the motion, because then it is standing policy. If he's gonna keep it very strict, I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u349	Then I would like to hold the motion, because the Minister says it is a standing policy, but we do not think it is. Maybe our information is wrong. If that's the case, then we'll take her back or arrest her. I don't think it's gonna be cleaned up, otherwise we wouldn't have filed that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u350	Rijkswaterstaat applies the policy of disposing of litter as quickly as possible, not only because waste attracts other waste, but also because of its insecurity. So that's standing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u351	However, I must be quite clear from Mr Van Raan that he is holding on to his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u352	It is true that Rijkswaterstaat has that policy, but the mowing and clean-up policies are now completely separate from each other. That's the problem. So it may well be that there will be cleaning up on Fridays, but that there will be mown-up on Mondays, after which the litter will be looked at again on Fridays. So it's really about the combination and the order: clean up first and then mow. That's really not a stand-alone policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u353	Well, then I suggest you hold the motion. Then we can always come back to it. But I think we're gonna get out of this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u354	It is good that the Minister suggests that Mr Van Raan is holding the motion, but I would also like to hear that from Mr Van Raan himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u355	Well, I saw him nod, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u356	Oh, I didn't see that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u357	The minister read my body language correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u358	At the request of Mr Van Raan, I propose his motion (34775-XII, No. 49). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u359	Then I come to the last motion I shall deal with, the motion in part No. 54 by Mrs Van Brenk. It invites the government to investigate, for example in SWOV's investigation, whether a form of certification promotes road safety. We've had a moment to find out if that can get a place in the SWOV's investigation and the answer to that is affirmative. So I can leave that judgment to the Chamber. Those were the motions and amendments on my part, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u360	Thank you. Then the Secretary of State will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a few comments from the VVD. Mr Dijkstra asked me to always place the passenger's interest first in the discussion on the market organization on the railways. That's exactly what I'm planning. I hope I have answered his question on this point. Then there are a number of motions. The Kröger c.s. motion in piece No. 21 is about international train traffic as an alternative to short flights. An analysis has been made in the Future Image OV. Mrs Kröger also refers to this. The CDA asked me in another motion for an overview of what we are doing on the track to improve international connections. I'd like to take this with me. If I may interpret Mrs Kröger's motion in such a way that, in the full letter on rail, I also refer to the analysis requested as a complement to the future picture of the OV, then I could take her over or leave the judgment to the Chamber. I would like to hear what Mrs Kröger prefers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u362	You may take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u363	I'm allowed to take over the motion. Well, look, if there's no objection...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u364	The Kröger c.s. motion (, No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u365	Then the motion to part No. 22, also by Mrs Kröger, on the circular economy, and in particular on substances of great concern. GroenLinks rightly calls attention to this too. These substances are not for nothing very worrying, so we need to work on phasing out. This is also happening in the context of REACH, more there than in the transition agendas. This also immediately creates a level playing field across Europe and a whole legal system around it. I'd like to leave that there. I understand Mrs Kröger's point. If I see an opportunity in the context of the transition agendas, I will certainly not let it go, as I say to Mrs Kröger, but I would like to leave the legal process in the legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u366	I understand that the necessary work is being done in the context of REACH and that the Netherlands wants to work with Germany to add more substances to REACH legislation. But this is about that in the meantime you also talk to the industry about the phase-out. The industry has to make that change. That process takes a lot of time and long-term investment. In the meantime, that route is parallel to REACH, and I understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u367	Maybe I can interpret the motion as follows. When I talk to industry about a whole series of agendas in the context of the transition agenda and I see opportunities to make agreements, I will not let those opportunities go. But that will be done on a voluntary basis. I'm not talking about a legal framework. I'd like to be willing to do that, but I'm not going to make it a very separate journey. If we can take it into account in the discussions we are having on the transition agendas and put this as a point of interest to industry in order to see if it can also see opportunities to work together with that phase-out, then I can leave the judgement to the Chamber. Otherwise, I would have to discourage the motion, because the legal framework is REACH. I'm not setting up a separate trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u368	Clear. So?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u369	So if this interpretation is supported, I see that Mrs Kröger is doing so, namely that we are linking it up, that we are not making a separate process of it and that it remains legally with REACH, then I can leave this motion to the discretion of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u370	Then she's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u371	Then the motion contains in part No. 30 a request from the CDA to investigate the opportunities and intentions of all possible cross-border train connections. That's what we've been talking about. I am happy to send an integral agenda for the international rail system to the Chamber. I can therefore leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 31 on capacity utilisation. The motion calls for a plan, but the point of attention in this motion is actually an issue that I have every day with administrators and transporters: ensuring that rail is used as efficiently as possible and that maintenance is not unnecessarily at the expense of capacity. Against that background, I'm going to work with the challenges that lie here. I would therefore like to say to Mr Amhaouch: I am not going to make a new plan, but I see clearly his focus. I'm sure I'm willing to take that point of interest with me. So I see the motion as a support for the approach that we have and to pay particular attention to this point. In the event that this interpretation is supported, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement. Then the motion to part No. 35 by Mr Laçin on deposit money. Of course, I agree with what I have said, and I think that I have done so clearly too, and I very much support the ambition to combat litter and plastic soup. However, there are a number of studies that I think I really need to wait and see if we can achieve a proper balance. I can see that Mrs Faber's motion in part No. 46 also asks to speak with a number of parties. I'd like to be prepared for that, too. Then I'll come to the conclusion. This motion is actually getting ahead of it, and that is why I must discourage it, while I certainly share with Mr Laçin the ambition of really doing something about litter and combating that plastic soup. We're gonna talk about that, I'm gonna tell him. Then the motion to part No. 36 by Mr Jetten to take as much account as possible of the bicycle sheds and highways as possible, I would just like to say that other types of bicycles are simple. We will, so I can leave this motion to the House's discretion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 37 to assess the relevance of simultaneous improvement of cycling infrastructure in the area concerned in the case of new infrastructure investments. Where that's relevant, that will be looked at. So here, too, judge Room. Then we come to Mrs Van Eijs' motion on item No. 40 on a quick start with the National Air Quality Action Plan. With this action plan, I am committed to a permanent improvement in air quality. This is to award the National Cooperation Programme, which focuses on European objectives. Of course, I too would like to get to work on this very quickly. I'm not going to make it to the spring of 2018, but the second half of 2018 will succeed. So I'll come to the Chamber with that action plan. The reason why I can't make it in spring is because I really want to talk to the regions and the cities about it. We need to take some time together for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u372	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u373	Oh, excuse me. If the petitioner can accept that it will be the second half of 2018 and we do our best to do so as soon as possible, then I can leave the motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u374	Mrs. Van Eijs nods yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u375	Fine, let's do that. Then the motion to part No. 41 on textiles. Mrs Van Eijs asks for explicit attention to be paid to textiles. It is one of the priority chains. We also do a number of things. This is also part of the Transition Agenda for consumer goods. In particular, however, in the cabinet's response to the Transition Agenda, I will take a very good look at the issue of textiles. For Mrs Van Eijs, but also Mrs Dik-Faber, this has the special attention, and rightly so. So I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 42 on the circular economy. Mr Van Dijk asks for a survey of labour market figures. I have good news for Mr Van Dijk, because in the spring of 2018, the SER will, of course, close to the heart of Mr Van Dijk's advice on how to make better use of the financial instruments and better adapt them to the circular economy. This will also address labour market impacts. I would therefore like to suggest to Mr Van Dijk that he wait for the ESC opinion. If he has any additional questions, come back. Maybe hold this motion until then. Then we'll talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u376	Mr. Van Dijk, would you hold your motion? You can nod.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u377	We are all eagerly looking forward to the advice of the ESC. Then there is the motion for a resolution by Mr Van Dijk on part No. 43 on market opening on the railways. We talked about it. We may not agree on the conclusion later, but we will agree on the approach. But in this motion you are suggesting a number of things that are really not going on yet. All the different options are still open and we are going to design this through a careful process. So I'm not going to make my decision until after a careful investigation. I must therefore discourage this motion, because it suggests a number of things that I really do not recognize and do not want to do. Then we'll get to the motion in part No. 44 on the sustainable fleet, tabled by Mrs Dik-Faber. I believe that this motion is right to encourage governments to make more work of a sustainable fleet of vehicles. We have to realize that this is about a research of Nature & Environment over the period 2015-2016. A manifesto was then launched and action plans were drawn up. So I also assume that we are showing a nice upward trend in this respect. I am also honest in saying that it is not only this cabinet that is responsible for this, but also for what happened in the intervening period. That's good news. The minimum criteria are evaluated every year, but it is always good to continue to stimulate the market. The Empire wants to set a good example by aiming for 20% electric driving by 2020. My ambition is, of course, to go even further with IenW. But I see this as a support of what we do and a support in the back. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 46 is about the Plastic Soup Surfer and the handling of stray waste. Mrs Dik-Faber asks me to consult with these parties, with the aim of submitting a proposal to the Chamber at the beginning of 2018. She's asking me to include all these different investigations in that. I'd be happy to. I will be happy to inform the Chamber about this at the beginning of 2018. I shall therefore leave the vote on this motion to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion-Van Raan c.s. in piece No. 47 on environmental zones. Mr Van Raan wants me to join the German system. I am certainly prepared to look closely at the German system, not least because it is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. But Mrs Van Eijs has asked me to look at the Belgian system as well. She says: let's just learn from the countries around us, where we can. I like to take all that with me, but of course I can't promise in advance that this is also the best option for the Netherlands. That is why I must discourage the motion, because it actually asks us to do so. But rest assured: I am going to look closely at the German system and also at the Belgian system. Then Mr Van Raan had another question about the differentiation of tariffs in packaging. This is part of the evaluation of the framework agreement. It is indeed a very valid suggestion. Fortunately, this is already being considered. So I will also look at this in the framework agreement. I will see if I can get back to this in the letter I just promised Mrs Dik-Faber. I would actually ask Mr Van Raan to hold his motion until spring. Then we'll talk about that letter and then he can express his concerns if he still has it. I see that he is willing to do so; that is very nice. Then we can hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u378	At the request of Mr Van Raan, I propose his motion (34775-XII, No. 48), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products and on the common organization of the That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u379	It is a very justified point and it is good to think about it. Let's see how far we can get. But I feel Mr Van Raan's support on this point, and I am grateful for that. Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 51 the paths of time are a bit different, not so much the objectives, but the paths of time. For Mr Van Raan would like me to have removed all remaining bottlenecks by the end of the first quarter in 2018. If I could, I would like to do it, but I also want to go through a careful process. The National Air Quality Cooperation Programme has real legal deadlines, also with regard to the First and Second Chambers. I'd like to keep it a friend anyway. I'd like to respect the deadline I've agreed with them. So I'm careful. I'm working fast. We're gonna do that, but we're gonna do it nicely. That's why I have to discourage this motion because of the deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u380	Madam Secretary of State, according to our statement, you are the motion in part No. I forgot 50.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u381	Oh, it was in my pile than the other way around, because I do have her here. Apologies, and thanks for the alertness. Mr Van Raan also asked for the national introduction of a system with yes/yes stickers. Anyone who gets annoyed by the piles of printed material can of course already use a no/no or a yes/no sticker, but Amsterdam has indeed done a test with a yes/yes sticker. So I would say: that system already exists. Then it is now up to the municipalities to decide whether they want to introduce it. But I would be happy, as I said at another point to Mrs Van Brenk, to suggest Amsterdam here too to share their experiences on this issue. By the way, there are also people who are very happy with the advertising leaflets. Of course, that system still exists if you want to use it. It is a free choice and it is already possible. I will suggest to Amsterdam that they share their experiences in the context of the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u382	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u383	So I advise against the motion, because it asks the government to make a proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u384	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u385	For a national introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u386	Mr Van Raan, briefly a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u387	Thanks for the response. It's not a trial in Amsterdam. It is simply introduced by adjusting the APV, but it would be a great support for those municipalities that do not want to do so. I don't know if I'm saying it all right, but you can also include it in the Environmental Act. Then it's settled in one go. Municipalities still have the freedom to do it themselves, but do not have to invent the wheel themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u388	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u389	That's a big help to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u390	I can't judge it that way, but if you hold the motion, I'm prepared to see if it's just something with which we give municipalities more an option or more behind it. I am not going to impose it nationally, because it is really up to the municipalities themselves to introduce it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u391	At the request of Mr Van Raan, I propose his motion (34775-XII, No. 50). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u392	Then I come to the motion on part No. 52. I must advise against this, because European standards are a binding review framework. The WHO are targets. The motion is really ahead of the national action plan. There is a difference between the legal values and the target values. I shall now turn to Mrs Ouwehand's motion for a resolution on piece No. 53. Following on from her first-term question, I have a somewhat more comprehensive answer to that. The core of her question is: is the evaluation of the green deal and the bill in 2018 or 2019? That question is about the green deal, a bill and two dates. It is a complex whole, so I will make sure that everything I tell you now is shared with the Chamber in writing. In a letter dated 28 June 2017, the Chamber was informed. It states that the green deal Responsible private use of plant protection products will be evaluated in 2019 and that the evaluation will also assess the effects, results and developments that have been achieved. Already in 2018, based on trends in sales figures over several years, I will prepare an interim balance sheet and inform the Chamber about this interim balance sheet in 2018. It is also committed to preparing the necessary legislative changes at the same time, to further implement non-legislative measures in the meantime and then to consider in 2018 whether legal measures are needed and are being launched. In the end, the overall evaluation in 2019 will only be able to really decide whether and if so what measures should be taken. It must also be feasible and enforceable. We had this discussion with Mrs Kröger. I hope, of course, that the voluntary measures will also do a lot, because we will have an effect sooner. But we are also going to take these steps. I therefore advise against the motion as drafted by Mrs Ouwehand, because there are still a number of steps that we are going to take first. We will certainly come back to this with each other. Then I have Mr Bishop's motion on item No. 55 about keeping small cities accessible by train. I certainly have sympathy with the point he is making, but unfortunately I have to discourage the motion because he prescribes how we should do it. That is only in the future concession, and I cannot anticipate it now. Unfortunately, I have to discourage the motion, but it is certainly known as a point of interest to the NS. At the future concession talks, we will discuss it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u393	I have a strong impression that we are here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u394	We're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-29-tweedekamer-9.u395	There is always light at the end of the tunnel, but that can also be because the sun rises. I don't know. Next Tuesday we will be voting on the whole package of motions. We are voting on the last day for the Christmas celebrations on the budget and on the amendments. I thank the two leaders for their baptism at budget level today. I'm glad they were with us.
