ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u1	Once again, welcome to the Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Popken on behalf of the PVV Group for her maiden speech. That means she can't be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. It has cost some arrangements of work, but we are finally standing here today. "We decide something, we bring it forward and we wait and see what happens. If there is no protest or rebellion - for most people do not understand what is being decided, then we will go further, step by step, until there is no return possible." This is perhaps Juncker's most famous statement, which shows exactly how this man thinks. We are talking today about the ridiculous EU defence plans of the biggest europhile of the 21st century. What a wretched Brussels thrashing about peace and security on the European continent. Peace is not thanks to Brussels, but to Brussels. And while Juncker is busy knocking himself and his own on the chest, Europe is plagued by attacks and they are not doing anything about it. IS itself says that they have smuggled more than 4,000 Islamic terrorists into the EU between illegal immigrants, but the Frontex ferry service in the Mediterranean continues to commute and our borders simply remain open. And those Member States that do want to close their borders, because they have had enough of all those highly educated pharmacists from Aleppo, are being beaten hard by the EU. But back to the plans. An EU defence fund, an EU defence policy, a military headquarters and, last but not least, the EU defence battalions, the so-called EU Battle Groups, where the unelected Eurocrats of Brussels can decide where to use them and where other Member States command our men and women as leading nations when EU missions take place. And then there's the cost. Well, that's what the Netherlands is going to negotiate in 2018. Typically a case of first buying a car and then seeing how you're going to pay it. Although I'm not such a gambler, I'm willing to bet a little bit that we as a good boy in the classroom are screwed in the suit again. When I say "we," I mean, of course, the Dutch taxpayer. The EU is not in the process of improving defence policy, but rather alienating itself from friendly NATO countries. The US is being set up as a new opponent and the EU must, as it were, take destiny into its own hands. But this is not just about working together, it is about integrating our defence within the EU further, if not merging it. I quote the Minister when it comes to the far-reaching scenario. "Then countries fully align their defence planning, finance and decision-making." Why is this Minister so committed to an EU defence policy when we already have all the structures and all the agreements in NATO? Why does this minister continue to believe in the EU, when it is already in a far-reaching state of dissolution? For the PVV, the EU is not the solution, but the problem. If we continue along this path, we will soon be part of the Islamic EU superstate, with an EU defence and an EU army. One of the reasons why I went into politics is to take my role within the trias politician seriously as a representative of the Dutch people. To fight for our beautiful Netherlands and against Islamization and the imperialist supergovernment in Brussels. The challenges ahead are great, but there is no reason to be afraid of the future. Because if we want to have a future as the Netherlands at all, then we have to make choices that differ from the choices of the left-wing europhile elite, the elite whose multicultural society, European superstate and open-door policy have proved to be a major failure. And the PVV dares to make these choices, because we choose our Netherlands. The PVV will therefore fight every step towards an EU army and every step Juncker takes. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u3	I congratulate you on your maiden speech. You proved yesterday at the scheme that you can fight back, so I think you're gonna be fine. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that colleagues can congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u4	Let's move on to the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Popken on her maiden speech. There was nothing to suggest that it was the first time to speak, but that of course has to do with the experience before that. It is also nice to hear through the content how much passion someone already has in the first few months of her parliamentary membership. I think I can say that my colleagues here wish her every success. In fact, you cannot have a better contrast when talking about the European Union and European defence cooperation: first the PVV and now D66. The European Union has emerged from the ashes of two world wars that killed 80 million people, the first sentence of the discussion paper on the future of European defence. It is an important sentence and an important fact, because it gives perspective to the debate we are having today. European integration is an unprecedented success which brings us peace, freedom and a great deal of prosperity. But there is chaos and instability at the borders of Europe, and that is why further European defence cooperation is so important. Of course, there are parties who think that you should withdraw behind the dikes or the Grebbeline and who literally want to close the Dutch border. That is not only impossible, it is also the biggest nonsense. Security for residents of Enschede does not depend on the border crossing with Germany, but on the border with Lithuania and Russia. That is why Dutch troops are stationed there. Important steps have been taken in recent years by the Minister. For example, the Dutch army is deeply integrated with the German army and the minister in Europe has worked for a military Schengen area. The Minister may sometimes stand on the brakes in words when it comes to European defence cooperation, but in practice it is in full force ahead and for the latter, of course, I would like to congratulate her. More European defence cooperation makes sense, given that about three out of four Europeans are in favour of a European Security and Defence Policy. More European defence cooperation is also necessary if we are to see the threat facing the European Union. I call an aggressive Russia on the east side, and ISIS and unstable states on the south side. Europe really needs to take its own responsibility here. Without wanting to fail the Atlantic relations, it is clear to everyone that we cannot hide under the American security umbrella forever. D66 therefore welcomes the discussion paper on the future of European defence. It will not be surprising that D66 would like the cabinet to go for the most far-reaching scenario. D66 aims to increase the level of joint training and training for personnel, more joint training, a permanent European headquarters, the use of the European Battle Groups, the possibility of leading group cooperation in the field of defence and a genuine European defence market, with joint storage, maintenance, procurement and procurement of defence equipment. Unfortunately, the Minister is not very positive about the far-reaching third scenario in the discussion paper, and we regret that. For example, when it comes to leading group cooperation, the so-called PESCO, we believe that you should be there early, so that you can still influence where it goes. Can the Minister state clearly what the government's position is with regard to leading group cooperation? Does the Minister see an opportunity to join the Franco-German axis when it comes to European cooperation? I would like to make the following point in conjunction with the objective of far-reaching European defence cooperation. D66 calls for a comprehensive and coherent security policy for the European Union. This gives European foreign policy significantly more weight. We will therefore be committed to the implementation of the European foreign strategy. D66 wants a comprehensive and coherent security policy for the European Union, as I have just said. As far as we are concerned, the European Union must operate within NATO when it can, but also outside NATO when it has to. In recent years, the Netherlands has become the frontrunner in the field of defence cooperation with other European countries, and we want to use and continue to take that lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u6	As far as the latter is concerned, we do not need the European super-army that favours D66. Mrs Belhaj is clear about that. My group does not want that. The consequences of the fact that you stand for the model of further integration and a European defence fund are that billions more will go to defence. Where does D66 want that money from? Is that what happens by cutting back on care, by cutting back on education...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mrs Belhaj is going to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u8	...by cutting back on cops? Where did that money come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u9	I often ask myself the same question when I read the SP election programme: where did that money come from? That is a very relevant question. It is also an almost fundamental question. I think it's normal from a D66 perspective that if you know that people care about their personal safety and the safety of the Netherlands, you add money to that. You are now suggesting that money spent on defence is at the expense of care. I always find that a false contradiction, in which concern is about people and defence is supposedly not, while defence is, of course, about security. Defense is about peace, as far as I'm concerned. I don't think it's a complicated discussion at all. If we decide with each other that we want to do so, we need to do so in European cooperation so that we can use the money we spend more effectively. Maybe there'll be money left for things from the SP election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mrs. Belhaj is making a complete fool of herself. She's right to say that you need a balanced budget. We have it year in, year out; it is calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. In that respect, Mrs Belhaj does not have to blame me. But if it is consistent, then it also knows that these plans represent an additional investment and further militarisation. That costs money, left or right, whether it's in D66's program or SP's. Is this at the expense of internal security, for example, where there is the biggest problem? Is it at the expense of the intelligence services? Is it at the expense of the cops? That is a very real and fair question, isn't it? I would like a clear answer from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u11	I would never qualify my colleague's words as "ridiculous." I am trying to point out that the crux of European cooperation is now that you save money with each other. We have seen in the notes how many weapons systems all these different countries have, how many individual start-up investments they have to make and how many training countries provide individually. If you put that together and if you work together, it doesn't necessarily mean it costs more money. In fact, it could get you money. We are already investing a small part of our money in this European cooperation, and we have decided to add something further as a result of the discussions. I think that was three or four months ago, but the Minister knows that even better. So that is simply included in the budget. I think that will happen again with Prince's Day. So it's not like that because we're doing this right now, billions are going to be taken from somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u12	I was particularly enjoying Mrs Belhaj's input. On one point, I do have a question. She got over that a little fast. That may have been because of the speaking time, so that's why we're interrupting. My question is about the consequences of choosing a European army, which D66 consistently does. That means quite simply that you also give control over the deployment of troops, of soldiers, out of your hands. This puts a huge mortgage on European cooperation. Can Mrs Belhaj outline the consequences of this? She goes very easily to scenario 3, but that has a lot of consequences. The Minister is critical of this for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u13	I understand Mr Knops' question. When I thought about the meaning of scenario 3, I did think: we're actually a little inconsistent. The sovereignty of the Netherlands is not at issue. For the time being, we will continue to strive to take these decisions together here. In scenario 3, you go a little further. This includes, for example, the Battlegroups. We're very much in favour of these Battlegroups. That is actually a European army. It's not like we have a mission and then ask each country how many soldiers it can add. We actually have a European army now. However, we say in fact that we do not want to do so. So I see it in front of me that it is important that we be clear as soon as possible how the decision-making process in Brussels should take place in relation to the Netherlands. I'll put that question to the Minister right away. Should it be through the European Council or through the European Commission, so that there can also be some form of control by representatives of the people? I therefore agree with Mr Knops that it is incredibly important for the Minister or the Ministry to make a proposal for the structure that goes with it, so that we can take a decision on it. Whatever the outcome, that indeed also results from the final scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u14	I know that D66 strongly supports a European army, perhaps even further than scenario 3. Does Mrs Belhaj, against that background, think it wise to take that step so quickly when you see how complicated this cooperation is already? There can be considerable risks, for example, because certain countries take different decisions from other countries, which means that units cannot be deployed, etc. We are not a United States of Europe. D66 would like that, but we really disagree on that. We're not gonna be that either. If we are not, then there can be no European army.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u15	It is so fascinating that everyone likes to use the term "European army" all the time. I understand that, because it also has a sense of humor in it, but I consciously chose not to talk about it because I notice that it makes people unjustly anxious. We are talking here today about far-reaching European cooperation. I didn't set up the EU Battlegroups. If you don't want a European army or European defence cooperation, you shouldn't want those Battlegroups either. D66 is trying to communicate very clearly and openly where we want to go with Europe, so that we can have good debates on this with each other and so that we can decide, on the basis of the majority in society, which direction to take. So this is not really about whether or not it is an army. That's a semantic discussion. The facts speak for themselves. All the decisions that the Minister has taken in recent times and which she is going to use in the near future are in the direction of further European defence cooperation. If you find it interesting to use the word "army" all the time, it is up to you, Mr Knops, but you have not heard me say it. I just want to make it absolutely clear that D66 is very much in favour of this. That is what I wanted to put here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you. Were you almost done? You have 13 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u17	Finally. For our security, we depend heavily on our partners in the European Union and NATO. We must have the courage to face reality, I say to all the parties who are present here and are open about it. Then we can take concrete steps with our European partners for a good and workable European defence, for the security of all Europe's 500 million inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u18	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about future defence cooperation within the European Union. With all the developments in the world, especially President Trump of the United States, the Brexit and all the fireplaces in the world, the whole process has accelerated. Anyone who says that cooperation within Europe is necessary for peace and security is right. But anyone who wants to tell us here that we need to move towards a European army where we give away a lot of control and where more money is being pumped and who advocates further militarisation of Europe in line with the policies of recent years, in the footsteps of NATO, who actually sells bullshit. Before I go into the specific proposals before us and a number of questions about them, I would like to make a sober observation that I hope will be able to rid the debate on defence of the many hyperboles and visions of fear that have pollute the debate in recent years. Together, the defence budgets of the European countries are many times higher than those of the country which may be the main reason for repeated calls for more defence budgets. Of course, Mrs Belhaj has already hinted about Russia, which has also recently announced huge cuts. France and Germany alone have a much higher defence budget than Russia. The Russian defence budget represents only 27% of the total defence budgets of the European NATO countries. The balance is even more lost when we look at the most important NATO country, the United States, which spends no less than nine times more on defence than Russia. The proposals for further integration towards a European army from the EU are a response to the deteriorating security situation. It therefore highlights the tensions with Russia, the wars in Syria and Iraq, the developments in Libya, from which many migrants are trying to come to Europe and, of course, the increasing number of attacks in Europe. We, me and the SP, do not dispute that there is a major security problem, but we do not believe that further militarisation is the solution and that there is even a military solution to these problems. On the contrary, we must note that part of the insecurity that moves and moves back into Europe is the result of previous interventions in countries such as Iraq and Libya, where chaos has been created, where the jihadists have responded to and from which, for example, a multi-headed monster such as the IS fascists has emerged. The solution is not simply to invest more in European armed forces and continue this war against terrorism, which has no end and is constantly creating new enemies. Frankly, I would have expected European leaders to have leadership, to have the courage to be vulnerable and to ask these questions out loud. What concrete example can we get today and yesterday in the news? We are all following developments in the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom is infected by Saudi Arabia with wahabitic Islamist ideas that feed the jihadists, while the United Kingdom supplies weapons to Saudi Arabia, and not only the United Kingdom. That is not the solution. What do we see in the interior? The United Kingdom is cutting back on citizens' own security. So Mrs. Belhaj...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u19	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u20	We do not guarantee the safety of our citizens by cutting back on our social services. We guarantee the safety of our citizens by asking these fundamental questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u22	I'll come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u23	You really need to wrap up. You've spoken for almost five minutes, and everyone has four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u24	Can the Minister promise us that she will not transfer sovereignty to Europe, that there will be no European defence budget with automatically more money attached to it, and that, as we have already done, we will look for cooperation, which is already going very well if I may believe the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u25	Thank you. I'm going to see Mrs. Diks now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u26	Oh, I thought I had an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u27	Yes, I know that's what you're waiting for, but I'm glad Mrs. Belhaj sat down again. I call Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs Popken on her maiden speech. I do not know if I fully agree with her, but we are going to talk about this in the years to come, I am afraid. Two attempts have been made to postpone this debate, not because it is not a sensible subject, but because of the absence of the Foreign Minister, so that the context of a common foreign policy is missing. That is the framework for defence and security policy. As we know, GroenLinks sees a shared European defence force as a spot on the horizon. At the same time, we are also clear that we will be in a period of transition on our way to this final goal for a long time to come. During this period, we expect, the Member States will take steps to achieve greater convergence in practice in many areas. I therefore regard the comments on sovereignty in the Minister's letter as mainly symbolic and mainly decision-making. For our defence, we are always dependent on the support of others and we will have to work even more closely together to put our common European defence in order and keep it in order. GroenLinks asks the Minister to contribute constructively to this. The European Commission has put three scenarios for European defence cooperation on paper. In fact, scenario 1 is already obsolete, scenario 2 is a cautious step forward and scenario 3 is the most ambitious. GroenLinks supports the government's idea of taking a leading role in increasing EU defence cooperation. However, we find it regrettable that the cabinet seems to reject the status quo of scenario 2, and scenario 3 as too far-reaching for now. We would recommend a real choice for scenario 3. In her letter, the Minister's main criticism of scenario 3 appears to focus on the formation of integrated units of several Member States that should be permanently available for rapid deployment at EU level. The Minister notes that she has difficulty with this "under the current circumstances." Does this mean the great pressure that is already being put on the Defence Organisation to carry out the current tasks properly? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there is no need to exclude one from the other. Surely integrated joint units can also be available for deployment both at EU and NATO level? In that case, would the Minister have less difficulty with scenario 3? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Netherlands is taking important steps to integrate military capabilities with neighbouring countries. Those steps fit exactly in scenario 3. By embracing this scenario, we also encourage this practice between other Member States. We also hope that the government will look at proposals from other Member States with an open eye. Broader and deeper cooperation will benefit the resilience of the European Union. We would like to hear the Minister's response to that. Integrating the national defence industries into a European defence market should be vigorously promoted as far as GroenLinks is concerned. I hear permission from the gallery. If the Member States stick to customization for their own equipment, it will be less efficient and we will continue to waste taxpayers' money. At the same time, we must ensure that we do not keep national defence industries in the air with EU money. In order to avoid this, we believe it is important to work towards a more integrated European defence development market. Once again, GroenLinks did not need this debate at the moment. But while we are doing it, we are immediately taking the opportunity to raise a point that the GroenLinks Group would like to ask the Minister to start working on, namely cooperation on cyber security. To date, no use has been made of the possibilities offered by the permanent and structural defence cooperation provided by the Treaty of Lisbon, PESCO. That seems to be changing now that the UK's resistance is no longer, or seems to be, a factor. The recent major ransomware attacks have shown that increasing our cybersecurity should have top priority. As regards GroenLinks, the first PESCO leader group in cybersecurity should therefore be set up. In this way, expertise and best practices from Member States can be pooled within the leading group, so that together we can better deal with this international threat. Does the Minister share this wish and is she willing to commit to such cybersecurity cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u29	Mr. Chairman. Europe is surrounded by a ring of instability, which is only getting bigger and more intense. At the same time, we see that the EU's military capacity is extremely low. We therefore welcome the fact that the Commission has produced a reflection paper on European defence cooperation. The three possible scenarios for developments up to 2025 are outlined. It is indeed up to the Member States to decide what to do with it. This initiative contributes to the debate to be held in the capitals. It is also positive that even in the most far-reaching scenario there is no European army. It's in D66's program, but it's not in this scenario. We are expressly opposed to this. Germany is also opposed, as demonstrated by the speech of the German Secretary of State for Defence Brauksiepe at the Europe conference of a little less than two weeks ago. That conference was organised by the CDA delegation in Parliament. He stressed that Europe should take greater responsibility for security on its own continent. He also stressed the importance of permanent structured cooperation, because crises and conflicts around us have assumed enormous proportions at a breathtaking pace. He expressed the hope that partnerships between the Netherlands and Germany, such as the German-Dutch army corps, could serve as a model for similar partnerships between European Member States. This is a plea that our group can wholeheartedly support. We have already indicated to the Minister that such initiatives are ultimately powerful. These could be initiatives in the area of the purchase, maintenance and maintenance of equipment, because there is a lot of profit to be made there. Interoperability, talking and communicating with all kinds of systems is very important. A Defence Fund, although there are still some comments to be made, can also give impetus to European defence cooperation, research and development. Our group supports the second scenario in many respects. Member States shall cooperate more closely on crisis management and capacity building. That is not, as Mrs Diks said, a status quo, because that is not how I read that scenario, it really goes beyond what we are doing now. There is more coordination of defence planning between Member States. Where that scenario goes too far, it is stated that complex platforms should be developed and purchased jointly. Our group is against forced shopping for European equipment. The Netherlands should be able to choose the F-35 if it proves to be the best weapon system, like many other European countries. Even Germany, which bought the Eurofighter together with France and the UK at the time, wants to get rid of it and move to the F-35. What does the Minister think of that second scenario? The third scenario really goes too far in some areas, such as far-reaching task specialisation and the permanent preparation of integrated forces for rapid deployment at EU level. This over-contains scarce capacities and is at the expense of NATO. It also presupposes supranational decision-making. If the Netherlands has a specific task that other countries need to use and not the Netherlands, the Netherlands could be forced to deliver. Let the EU focus on the 3D missions, of importance in North Africa in the context of migration issues, so that we can face one of the biggest challenges for Europe in the coming decades, namely the protection of our external borders. Our group is in favour of a sense of reality and not 'overpromise, underdeliver'. The previous objectives were far too ambitious. The Battlegroups have never been deployed. We opt for a bottom-up approach instead of a top-down approach. There is now a new French President, who has already issued his credentials and has said that he wants to do more in a European context. That is an old wish of the French, who have been outside NATO for a while. The Chancellor of Germany, Merkel, has indicated that she wants to focus more on France and less on the US and the UK. She seems willing to make major concessions in Paris. Hopefully not when it comes to a European army; that is what I say right away. Also with the Brexit, the new European force field has changed. The Netherlands misses the UK as an ally. How does the Minister view this in this new setting? Finally. As far as we are concerned, abhorring the United States is a misguided attempt to strengthen the CSDP. I'm tasting that. I can also tell that the Foreign Minister, who cannot be present now, has said so before. As far as we are concerned, that is not the issue. That would be at the expense of NATO. Many European armed forces are in a depravable state. We need to do something about that. We need to invest in that. We should not call for a European army to be the solution to everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Popken on her maiden speech. If there is one area for which the need for European cooperation is clear, then defence is. Increasing instability and conflicts on the outskirts of Europe also affect us in the Netherlands. As much as we want it, it does not seem likely that this situation will change for the better in the near future. The threats we all face are too great to solve on our own. The fight against poverty, inequality, lawlessness and insecurity in the world cannot be won if every country operates for itself. So we have to work together. In doing so, there is no other credible alternative than to work together at EU level. The challenges facing the Netherlands and Europe do not disappear by retreating behind national borders. European cooperation is needed on major issues such as migration, climate change and security. We're doing the same thing. Take the debates we had last week on the replacement of defence equipment. This may seem to be a typical national consideration, but we are also looking explicitly at the international context and cooperation with the countries around us, because it makes us better in the Netherlands. The European Commission's call for the integration of military components is something that the Netherlands has already put into practice. We already work closely together, for example with Germany and Belgium. The Netherlands has chosen to do so, because together with the countries around us we are stronger than alone. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the Netherlands may serve as a role model in this area. Of course, when and how other Member States want to cooperate is a matter for Member States themselves, but the PvdA believes that the European Commission should play a stimulating role in encouraging other countries to follow the Dutch example. We cannot separate the future of European defence cooperation from the future of the European Union as a whole. The PvdA therefore wishes to inform the Cabinet that we see our future in an EU that is better protected, better performing and better acting, taking into account its own principles and rules. An EU that brings added value in the joint approach to international challenges and gives more emphasis to providing perspective to those affected by the negative effects of free movement and globalisation. I share the government's view that the second scenario, the EU as a security provider, seems to be best in line with both our Dutch ambition and the EU Global Strategy. But I still miss the relationship to the 3D approach in this respect. How does all this relate to our Dutch and European diplomatic ambitions and ambitions for development? The PvdA would have liked to have involved the Foreign Minister in today's debate, precisely because of the importance of an integrated approach. We will continue to be strong for that. The presented White Paper on the future of the EU and the ensuing discussion papers provide a good basis for a broader discussion on the future of the EU and our role in it. The PvdA chooses not to stand on the sidelines, but to talk about the future of the EU. As far as we are concerned, this is about a European course aimed at taking greater responsibility as a Europe for our own security and contributing to peace and security worldwide. We would like to hear from the Minister how the cabinet intends to conduct the debate on the Europe of the future in the Netherlands, because, as High Representative Mogherini said, this is no time for uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mrs Popken on her maiden speech. We will not talk about the content, but I understand now that you are learning here every day why the Foreign Minister would have liked to be here. Let me start with a sentence that I have already said a number of times in recent months: as far as the VVD Group is concerned, NATO remains the primary framework for the collective defence of Europe. My group has also always been clear about the fact that we see deeper and concrete defence cooperation within Europe as a useful complement to the Transatlantic Alliance. Especially in view of the world in which we live today, where Europe's external borders are threatened and where the American President seems to be heading in a somewhat quirky direction, it is important that we, as European Member States of NATO, stand on our own feet, because freedom is not free. The VVD therefore welcomes the Member States' reflection on how to promote defence cooperation within Europe. Cooperation is essential in order to provide a lasting response to the current and future threats, because the Netherlands cannot do so alone. In doing so, my group is absolutely clear that the decision on the deployment of the armed forces must remain with the Member States themselves at all times. The VVD is against the creation of a European army whose decision-making powers are in Brussels and no longer with the Member States themselves. Fortunately, this paper, as has already been said by the CDA, does not argue for that either, despite some ghost stories or some of our dreams or others. It is argued, however, that my group believes that a good development is needed to improve interoperability between European armed forces. This increases the overall impact force and saves costs. In the paper of the European Commission, the striking point is that there are currently too many different weapons systems, 178 within the European armed forces compared to 30 within the US armed forces. Those are clear figures. By better aligning the purchase, maintenance and disposal of equipment, a huge efficiency impact can be achieved here. Also by intensifying joint training and operations, concrete strength is gained. We're gonna need that force of impact, given the threats that are coming to us. The proposals in the paper should encourage and intensify cooperation, both from Brussels and between Member States. The VVD group especially feels for the latter. It is a good thing that this is being considered in Brussels and that it is being pushed forward, but if we want to achieve tangible results, it must come from the Member States themselves. In practice, we can already see what added value that can have. The Netherlands is at the forefront of the bilateral integration of armed forces. Just look at the integration of the 43rd Mechanised Brigade into the German 1st Armoured Division, the far-reaching cooperation between the Dutch and Belgian Navys, the joint security of the Benelux airspace by the Dutch and Belgian Air Forces and the joint acquisition of new tanker aircraft with Luxembourg and other interested countries. These are all examples of cooperation that brings tangible benefits that will benefit our freedom and security and strengthen NATO. They are such partnerships that the VVD Group would like to see rolled out on a wider scale. Can the Minister outline how these proposals from the European Commission can make a concrete contribution to this? What opportunities does the Minister see specifically for the Netherlands to get as much out of this as possible? Could it perhaps mention a few concrete examples of countries and initiatives that could provide a deepening or broadening of what the Netherlands is already doing? Last Saturday I watched the memorial service for German former Chancellor Kohl and heard the former President of America, Bill Clinton, say: this man believed in cooperation, cooperation to prevent war, and stepped over his own shadow. That is what is needed in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u32	Thank you very much, Mr Van den Bosch. The Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u33	Mr. Chairman. Many of you rightly point out that the security situation in and around Europe has not been particularly good in recent years. In fact, it's gotten worse. There's been instability on the east and south flanks. It has never been self-evident that we can always count on the so-called traditional allies. This is not so much because another president has come to power in America, but that is something the Americans have been pointing out to us for a long time: Europe, it is high time you could keep your own pants on. Make sure you can take responsibility for your own safety in your immediate surroundings, but also a little further away; where we can, we will naturally combine the forces transatlanticly. So the suggestion that Europe should wake up because Trump has taken office is far from my point of view. I have said many times that Obama and Robert Gates, together with many other Americans, have repeatedly warned Europeans: beware, at some point the measure is full for us, we cannot always be your security provider; you will also have to invest yourself. That time did not come until today; that time has already come much earlier. That is exactly what the European Union is right to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u34	I didn't say for nothing in my first term that some people say that. Among other things, the Dutch Minister for Foreign Affairs has suggested this at least. He said that a turning point in history has been achieved in our relationship with the United States. He has linked this to the need to do more in Europe. So it's not just being called by a few people. It is the colleague of this minister who tells this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u35	There is one thing I am sure of, namely that my foreign colleague, Mr Trump, did not hang it up, but he reminded us that the Americans have been making it extremely clear for a number of years now that they expect Europe to do more. That moment is now upon us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u36	That part of the story is true. Obama already called that out, Gates already called that out, and Trump does it in his own way in 140 characters, but the Foreign Minister has linked our relationship with the United States, the new president's entry into office and these security developments. I hear this Minister say something else; that is more appealing to me, I must say honestly. But perhaps the Minister can reflect on the statements that can be found on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u37	I have no need to reflect on statements made by colleagues. I know what we have discussed before in the bosom of the cabinet. I also know I'll be visiting the Pentagon soon. The bilateral relationship in the defence field between the Netherlands and America is good, and it remains so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u38	I think there's just different visions. That's what you see in Europe. Germany and France may now be starting to get a little bigger. I think what the Minister says is true. That's what the plans say. To the left or to the right, it is an extension of the current NATO policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u39	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u40	My question, if you'll just bear with me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u41	No. I don't have one today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u42	It's a long day, I can assure you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u43	That's why. That's exactly why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u44	I think we should keep our heads down. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u45	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u46	The question is what the Minister then answers in the direction of, for example, the United States. Is the answer to the insecurity situation that we must continue with the course of intervention and war against terrorism? Is that our answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u47	I'm, really, just one second on my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u48	Yeah, I was just about to say that. The Minister is busy for one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u49	This is such a fundamental question, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u50	Yes, everything is fundamental what is happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u51	...that I'd like to see him answered at the beginning. Anyway, if the minister isn't ready, I'll wait. Because I'm just keeping my head cool today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u52	Yes, very good. I suggest the Minister move on. And of course you will have the opportunity to ask questions if your question is not answered. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u53	The former President of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, once said: cool heads will prevail. I think we should keep that in mind today. As far as the speeches to which Mrs Karabulut refers are concerned, I honestly have little to add to what I said earlier and repeatedly. We are talking today about far-reaching defence cooperation. In her first term, Mrs Karabulut stated that we have brought about the current threat and the attacks in our own inner cities about ourselves. I find that pertinently incorrect and throw it far from me. So I'm not going along with that. A clear Article 100 letter is always the basis for a contribution we make from Europe and the Netherlands in the context of NATO, in the context of a coalition of the willing, in the UN context or so on. It is not the case that America decides and we turn; Mrs Karabulut knows that all too well. I would now like to continue with the reason why European cooperation is so important, also with regard to NATO and transatlantic relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u54	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u55	Your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u56	I note from the Minister that she simply does not want to think about this question. She's stuck in her own ideology and refuses to look at the world around us. I think that's a pretty serious situation for a Secretary of Defense. Surely the Minister cannot deny that more than 15 years of war against terrorism has only resulted in more terrorism? Surely the Minister cannot deny that far-reaching militarisation and investment has led to cuts in our country and our cities? Surely the Minister cannot deny that, as the paper said today, the United Kingdom is on the one hand helping to export radical ideas and, on the other hand, supplying arms to such countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u57	Mrs. Karabulut...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u58	This can't go on like this anymore, can it? That fundamental question must first be asked before you can judge on these kinds of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mrs Karabulut, you know that interruptions must be brief and concise. It really is in the Rules of Procedure, and you know it very well. Please stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u60	But I'd really like to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yeah, you can. If you put your question briefly, there is also a chance of a short response. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u62	Long-term interruptions can sometimes be answered in a short time: I expressly do not share Mrs Karabulut's view of the world. I will continue with what I started, namely the reason why European cooperation matters, including within NATO. I have just said that the Americans have been asking us to wake up and keep our own pants up for a long time. That is exactly what Europe is beginning to do more and more. Finally, I say right away. This is not the undermining of NATO or a threat to NATO. It is a strengthening of the same NATO and a possible restoration of the balance within NATO. The aim of European cooperation is to promote very strongly cooperation and increase military capabilities, which are jointly developed and used by EU Member States. As a result, we are jointly able to deal more efficiently with our taxpayers' money and to contribute more efficiently and effectively to military and civilian missions. These are capacities that can be deployed not only at EU level but also at NATO and UN level. So proposals from Europe are always complementary to NATO. I have told several times in a number of AOs that the High Representative is present at a NATO ministerial and that the other way around is Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg present at, for example, an EU ministerial on these issues. I would therefore stress that, for the Netherlands too, NATO remains the cornerstone of our security policy. However, the government believes that European cooperation is important, precisely in view of the importance of NATO. The infamous word "EU army" has fallen again. I would like to say once again that this is not an incentive for a European army. There is no such thing as a NATO army. The fact that an EU Battlegroup was just about to be compared with an EU army does not seem to me to be a good image. Because what are we doing in an EU Battlegroup? Nothing more or less than we do within the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force of NATO or the NRF in the broad sense, namely to join forces with a number of allies, allies, allies. At some point that is taken over by other allies. That's the way the Chamber looks at it. There's no army. There won't be an army. There will be no committee to decide where Dutch soldiers will be deployed and whether or not they will get a consent from the European Parliament. It's just not gonna happen. I would like to make that clear to the outside world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u63	That clarity has arrived. I would also like a clear answer to the question of what the chain of command of the EU Battlegroups looks like. Who's gonna decide where they're gonna be deployed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u64	Those are the countries themselves. First, the countries that supply units to such an EU Battlegroup and then the countries that participate in the decision-making process, namely the EU Member States themselves. It is always a political decision, just as NATO's commitment is a political decision. Units are not going to decide that they are being used somewhere, although it would sometimes be desirable because European and political decision-making sometimes takes a long time. What I want to emphasise here, also in response to Mrs Karabulut, is that there is intergovernmental cooperation. There is therefore no transfer of sovereignty. Each country decides and will continue to decide on the deployment of its own units, in accordance with the procedures we apply in NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u65	So for the viewers at home, this means that if the EU Battlegroups are to be deployed, the countries that want to participate in them will first go to their own parliaments. There they are going to ask for permission, for example in the form of an Article 100 letter. The Minister will have to explain how she sees it. After that, it is treated in a regular manner and the decision falls. All these countries will then finally decide that the EU Battlegroups will be deployed for a particular mission, but at what table will that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u66	I will respond to this, but we have already discussed this out and out of the way last year. That's okay, because I love to explain it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u67	Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u68	I then wrote a complete overview of the procedures followed in the case of the deployment of the VJTF, the NRF, the EU Battlegroups and so on. It states what procedures we then use and what is demanded of a parliament if speed is required. Preferably you will have the debate with Parliament in advance, but if there are really big problems and there is a need to act quickly, you can also choose to start planning and broadcasting. You can't have the debate until later. That does listen closely, because they are exceptions. Fortunately, that situation has not yet occurred either. I propose that I bring that letter, which I have already discussed with the Chamber, to the attention of the Department of Defence. Then, when it comes specifically to what procedures we go through in the deployment of an EU Battlegroup or the VJTF and so on, we can discuss it in an AO. Then we can now focus on a number of topics that are on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u69	Finally, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u70	We are in a plenary debate today. I know what that letter says, and I know what discussions have been held, but it is so important because this suggests that we are not going to do anything resembling a European army. I absolutely do not agree with the PVV, but I do want to have clarity about how that works. If a Battlegroup is deployed somewhere next year and we are having a debate about this a week later, I already know what a lot of people in the Netherlands think, namely: how is it possible that the Netherlands did not give prior consent to the deployment of these Battlegroups? I do not necessarily have to do that, but be fair and consistent in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u71	Really, Mrs Belhaj, we inform you about when the Netherlands participates in which EU Battlegroup with which units. You will receive an annual overview of this. You know we're back in 2018. You also know that if you form such an EU Battlegroup, even if it has not yet been deployed, there is a possibility that it will be deployed. It's not like a commander or a unit decides that. That's what politics is about. By the way, there is also the crux, because that is exactly why an EU Battlegroup has never been deployed, for example as a Bridging Force for the UN. So nothing is offered at all to then see where a unity of the Netherlands lands somewhere in the world, because Europe wants it to. In the end, that's what the Netherlands is always about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u72	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u73	Mrs Karabulut is no longer in the Chamber. She suggested that all of this would lead to spending many, many, many billions more on defence. It is not the case that much more money will be spent on defence by the Member States. You can see that European money from the EU's resources will be used for this, for example for development. The European Defence Fund is also being discussed. I'll get back to you on that. The Chamber receives a very comprehensive so-called BNC-fiche about this. We have to get back to the base eventually. I just said that working together is going to bring us a great deal in terms of efficiency and effectiveness, including more efficient spending of tax money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u74	No, Mrs. Karabulut. I really suggest that the Minister should continue with her speech. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt. We are not going to interrupt every sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u75	Fine, Mr President, but this was really a very specific point and very nicely completed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u76	Yeah, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u77	Anyway, I'll just add myself to your wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u78	Oh, that's great. Thank you, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u79	What does the EU Global Strategy actually do? This strategy recognises the importance of further strengthening the Common Security and Defence Policy, enabling us to take greater responsibility from Europe for the security of Europe and of Europeans. You can do that close to home, but also a little further away. Moreover, we will often do so in cooperation with others, such as NATO or the UN. There are also areas where the EU will increasingly develop its own profile, for example in the Sahel region. This is obvious, because if things are not going well, as we can see at the moment, the consequences can lead to large migratory flows affecting Europe in particular. Why, then, should we wait for someone to solve this for us, if we can also contribute to it ourselves? Then we have the implementation plan that Members spoke about. That describes the level of ambition. This is very pragmatic, precisely in line with the wishes of the Netherlands during the EU Presidency. Then for six months we literally went up against the farmer with a number of proposals that you see coming back here now, just to constantly tambourize on the need for practical defence cooperation. I have said before that I am still convinced European. I have worked with the European Commission and been in the European Parliament, but I do see the pitfalls of Europe. I also refuse to declare Europe sacred. It has become a bureaucracy, just like the government in the Netherlands. You always have to take a critical approach to bureaucracy. If Europe announces all kinds of proposals on defence cooperation and then does not deliver, we are doing exactly what Europe is thinking, namely: overpromise and underdeliver. I'd like to avoid that. And that is exactly why I have been so involved in completing this further cooperation. Yeah, we already have a lead role. Mr Van den Bosch, Mrs Belhaj and Mrs Van den Hul also spoke about the fact that we are not just developing capacity together, but have even gone on integrating units. We are playing this leading role in the Benelux context, but also with Germany and the United Kingdom, for example, think of the UK Amphibious Force, and we will continue to do so. I think it is extremely important that we continue to look at the added value of the proposals on the table. What does Europe and us get? I have no need for symbolic politics, a discussion about new buildings and bricks with a few flags on them. So this is really aimed at less non-binding cooperation or, if you like, more binding cooperation and in particular at developing capacities that can be used for European security purposes. To do that, of course you need to connect again for budget and planning cycles. That's one of the huge benefits I see. In this way, all Member States' plans will become more and more coherent. Don't force that on me. This is really a process of years. You will have to be patient, but I know one thing for sure: if we work seriously with the EU and the Member States now, we will be able to reap the benefits of this in a number of years' time in developing new capacities. Of course, Europe is not on its own. I have already said that we are working with NATO. This means that it is important for Europe to join the NATO Defence Planning Process, the NDPP, and it will. This is all part of those plans, too. There has been talk of PESCO. PESCO is a well-known opportunity in the Treaty of Lisbon for further defence cooperation. We are not yet ready to do so, because we are currently examining how PESCO should be set up. The focus will be on steering, governance of PESCO and the eligible projects. Is it only about the development of capacities or is it also about the further development of a military Schengen area, which I mentioned earlier? Cyberdefence is so crucial at the moment that I suspect that a proposal will come along. However, it is also important, for example, to participate in missions. What criteria apply to participation in PESCO and how cooperation is taking place, I cannot quite say because the discussion is still taking place on this subject. However, I say to Mrs Diks that cyber matters. There's no question about that, even for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u80	Can you tell me how far you have progressed with your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u81	Ten more minutes, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u82	Can I just ask you a quick question? I specifically said that GroenLinks would like the Netherlands to play a role in such a leading group for cybersecurity. I would really like us to bring that to our attention. The Minister is now saying it a little slacker, if I may put it that way, namely that she is waiting for a proposal. That slack wasn't exactly what we were looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u83	You're gonna put me away a little bit like a washcloth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u84	At least that was a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u85	I don't think that's the idea. I don't think Mrs. Diks meant that either. I think she meant to say that once the governance and the criteria are fully mapped, we need to demonstrate our expertise in the field of cyber. I recently sent the Chamber a list of cyber cases. For me, it's all about added value. There can be no objective reasoning. PESCO is not an end in itself. What is an end in itself is intensive cooperation in the field of cyber, the joint development of capabilities, the creation of a military Schengen area and so on. In other words, it is just too early to encourage me to launch a cyber project there tomorrow, because we are still in the process of governance and criteria. I told you before, we got one shot to get it right. We only have one chance to do it right, and otherwise Europe will be embarrassed, I'm sorry to say, with fine promises that will not end up in the real world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u86	I would also be very much in favour of not going on that path. For the sake of clarity, of course, I didn't want to compare you with a washcloth. That wouldn't have occurred to me either, but you brought it up yourself. I am concerned that we are at the forefront of cyber security. I urge you to deal with this in that way. It is clear that the governance of PESCO still needs to be developed. I understand that, but it's about getting us in the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u87	I'll take the suggestion for cyber. I still have a number of priorities. When it comes to PESCO, the criteria and governance are good and I see the added value, I have a list of priorities. A military Schengen area and cyber will certainly benefit from that. I would like to avoid making PESCO an end in itself and in particular Member States which are very European but in practice do not cooperate at all at European level, making it a bit of a good ornament and fooling everyone in Europe a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u88	I would like to come back to the European Defence Fund. The Minister made an interesting remark, namely that it is not true, as I thought it was from all the information, that this is going to cost extra billions. Can the Minister rule this out? I'd really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u89	I had not really arrived at the European Defence Fund in my reply. I said that the suggestion was raised that all of this would lead to spending billions, but that this is not true. It is not a question of having to pay in one go. These are reasonably clear amounts that are extracted from EU funds. So it's not so much about more money. Above all, it is going to be a lot of money if we manage our taxpayers' money more efficiently by joining forces. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u90	This is exactly what my question is about. Can the Minister confirm that this will indeed save us money instead of costing us extra billions for defence? The Minister also knows that this is always at the expense of something else. In our country as well as in other countries, people suffer from major shortages of care, education, security and so on. So can the Minister confirm that? I find that very interesting. It would be a positive development.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u91	Suppose the Netherlands wants to buy their own transport planes, those big C-17s. We've done that in the past. We have said: this is actually a bridge too far for the Netherlands, but we do need that capacity. That is why we have proposed to do this together and to use it through drawing rights. That's practice, too. Also look at the EATC, the European Air Transport Command in Eindhoven. There, transport capacity is pooled and shared by the air. This also generates capacity for less money. It concerns a lot of cases, such as BeNeSam, cooperation with Belgium in the field of the Navy. I want to make sure we work together to make savings. That's the last thing we need, because we have deficits everywhere. Mrs Karabulut has just mentioned that there are several shortcomings, including in this society, for example in terms of security. This is about our safety. I've shared the Department of Defense deficit with the Chamber. A bundling of forces results in a more efficient use of taxpayers' money, but this should never be an excuse to make savings on the Dutch armed forces. Firstly, we are somewhere at the bottom of the NATO state when it comes to spending as a percentage of GDP. Secondly, if you want to work together and be taken seriously in that cooperation, you will have to put similar things on the mat according to carrying capacity. I've used it as an example so many times in this house: carpooling is also not possible if you've sold your car yourself. You must therefore have sufficient resources of sufficient quality if you are a serious partner in the cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u92	So it is not true at all that a European Defence Fund and continuing on this basis will cost us additional billions. The point that the Minister wanted to make and that my group does not dispute is that there may be efficiency gains.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u93	I sometimes feel like I'm here talking Russian when I hear the reactions! Maybe next time we should call in some translation services, because this is exactly what I didn't say. We had arrived at the European Defence Fund, on which I said at the beginning that a BNC sheet will come to the Chamber on what exactly the Defence Fund is about. We have been actively involved in the preparatory phase. Mrs Diks, Mr Van den Bosch and Mr Knops, I say that there can be no doubt about this. The Netherlands is in favour of an open, competitive defence market, for which we have also strongly advocated in recent years. The Netherlands is particularly in favour of a level playing field, where companies from smaller countries, including from the Netherlands, have fair opportunities as principal contractors or suppliers. I think the Defence Fund can offer opportunities for the Dutch defence sector. The Chamber also knows from previous reports and letters that we are working on the positioning of Dutch companies and knowledge institutes. This is primarily a task for EZ, but we are of course making a full contribution to it from the Defence Department. For the development of the Defence Fund, this debate may come a little too early. I cannot anticipate this because a number of things simply need to be worked out. However, I have always said about the financial instruments proposed in this context that I really do not want joint liabilities to be possible, but that clear agreements should be made with regard to the Stability and Growth Pact. The strict criteria we know for this cannot suddenly be undermined because it is about defence; it simply does not work that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u94	Thank you for being so clear about the Defence Fund and also about the position of the Dutch industry. Now, of course, we are dealing with the French-German military complex, which is many times larger than that of the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to take into account in the development of the Defence Fund that there should be standardisation of systems in order to qualify for aid at all? I am not talking about everyone driving the same type of vehicle, but the fact that we still have systems within our armed forces today that simply cannot communicate with each other is a major obstacle to this cooperation. That is something very small, it costs nothing, but it does mean breaking that power, which now lies in particular with the French-German military complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u95	I did not want to mention the latter, but I think I also made it clear in previous debates, also in response to questions from Mrs Diks, that it cannot be that the defence fund results in the financing of certain national industries. That's not how we got married, and that's just not gonna happen. Standardisation is an extremely complex subject because it is based on a multitude of interests. Mr Knops put it neatly. The discussion and debate on this are ongoing, not only within the European Union but also within NATO. There are also very slow steps in the right direction, so you see more and more countries that close a MoU (memorandum of understanding) to fight that standardisation for each other. It has not even been so easy to enforce, but this is clearly on the High Representative's retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u96	That can be weighed in the form of setting conditionality. When the Netherlands supports such a fund...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u97	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u98	... in return, we demand that countries that participate in it conform to the demands that we put together. That is a very simple thing, but the impact is enormous, because today our own armed forces simply cannot communicate with other armed forces via radio through other frequencies, other modulations and so on. This is a small step with a big impact that doesn't even cost money, but this is a good moment to use that lever now. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u99	I've got it sharp on my retina. The capacity part does not mean that you have to participate in it, because it can also be about the development of capacities that you have already been fully provided for by previous purchases and then it would be a waste of money. The capacity part of the fund is therefore a matter of voluntary participation by Member States and, as I say to Mrs Karabulut, on a voluntary basis for projects in which they want to participate. Whether you spend your money in isolation on a national basis or together and so there is a more efficient spending, I still see how this leads to spending a lot more billions. The stabilisation aspect is important to us, and we will bring it to you in the same way. This is not, therefore, a European arms race. A lot has been said about the scenarios. Maybe I've been unclear in the appreciation, but it's not like those scenarios are a given. They are purely an exercise to stimulate and exchange thoughts. In that appreciation I said that scenario 2 is very well related to the Dutch 3D approach. I say to Mrs van den Hul: of course, the integrated approach is paramount, not only in the Netherlands but also in many other countries, and the European Commission has this clearly on the retina. The Foreign Minister would have liked to be present at this debate, but unfortunately was prevented. That doesn't mean we're going to be isolated at once. We have very close interdepartmental cooperation for a reason. I have told you about this weekly via the Military Operations Steering Committee, where not only Defence, but also BuHa-OS, BZ, AZ and V and J are at the table, so that we can get as wide as possible. There is therefore no isolated approach. Let's talk about the Brexit. I regret that this whole advance in European security policy thinking is being hung on the fact that Trump has taken office and the British are leaving the European Union. It is true that the departure of the British has potentially major implications for European positioning on the world stage, especially in the field of security. The UK has repeatedly said that it is leaving the EU but not Europe. Leaving the EU but not leaving Europe, says Boris Johnson. We must wait and see what this means in the coming period. Recently I was in London to speak again with my British colleague Michael Fallon, which happened and margin of The Queen's Birthday Parade. Then we confirmed our cooperation in a MoU. Negotiations are also currently taking place on the future relationship between the Union and the UK. I made no mistake, even during my recent visit to London, that the Netherlands and Europe in a broad sense are very keen to remain closely involved with the UK when it comes to EU security policy and the participation of the UK in EU missions. To be honest, I do not have the impression that the UK is suddenly going to avoid it. Although the UK does not belong to mainland Europe, it does benefit from security on this continent. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered as many questions as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u100	Thank you. I note that there is a need for a second term in the Chamber. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Popken on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make two motions. I listened to the Minister's speech and it didn't actually contain much more news than the letters we received earlier. The only thing I have kept up with is her statement that I have heard her say before, namely that she is a convinced European. That's nice, but I'm a convinced Dutchman. We are here in the Dutch Parliament and we are debating with our Dutch Minister of Defence. In that respect, I shall table the following two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the European Commission has presented far-reaching EU defence plans;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should be a sovereign state and as such should also direct its military forces;]] [[calls on the government, these European defence plans, and every step towards an EU army, to reject,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to close the Dutch borders to all asylum seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-28-159]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Popken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-28-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u102	Mr. Chairman. In fact, we can thank the PVV very much that we have been given the opportunity to let all Dutch people know that the majority in this Chamber is in favour of further European defence cooperation. I think that's important, because in the end many people want to know who decides at what point in time what choice you make in this. I think that has become clear; I do not need a motion for that. Furthermore I had to think of a kind of ostrich, or rather a combination between an ostrich and a mole. The ostrich tends to stick his head in the sand when he's afraid because he doesn't see the enemy, but also assumes that the enemy doesn't see him. The mole tends not to be able to withstand daylight and especially dig, and thus have no contact with what is happening around us. These two animals together remind me of people who are currently saying that there is no need for European defence cooperation, even though it is. As I concluded my first speech: for all those 500 million people, I think it is important that we do not become ostriches.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mrs. Belhaj, I think the mole feels very differently about that. Mrs. Popken?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u104	Of course, you can't get a bigger invitation to respond. This is a pity, following Mrs Belhaj's first-term compliments. Now I'm not very good at comparing animals. Perhaps I should have prepared myself for that, but I had not seen it coming in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u105	But Mr. Graus knows all about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u106	Yeah, maybe I should've asked him to. Anyway, if I had to make a comparison back, this is not a question, but more of a remark, then I think more of a cackling chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u107	Thank you. It's very nice today! I call Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u108	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short, too. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for her first reply. We have already spoken in an interrupting debate about how to deal with cybersecurity. The Minister has indicated that PESCO is a dot on the horizon, but is still a little too far away to go on the road with it. Given that cyber attacks can put us all in serious danger or chaos, I think it is important that the Minister does at least try to achieve that cooperation on cyber. I'm filing a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that digital attacks on vital infrastructure could potentially disrupt our societies and that cyber threats could undermine security and stability in Europe;]] [[Considering that European cooperation to address these cyber threats is not yet sufficiently effective;]] [[calls on the Government to take the initiative within the European Union for cooperation between Member States to bring together military expertise in the field of cybersecurity and joint investigations of new technologies that may assist in this process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-28-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u109	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the motions that have been tabled. The motion in part No. I fully understand Mrs Popken's 101. She made another remark that I will of course respond to. Look, I am Dutch, but I am part of the European Union with the Netherlands and so you must see my statement, Mrs Popken. There can be no misunderstanding about that. If Mrs Popken had listened carefully to me, she would know that I am very critical of simply declaring Europe sacred. That's the point I made. In any case, I agree with her that we are Dutch and that we are debating here in the Dutch Parliament. However, I cannot deny that since the Golden Age we have needed European partners for our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u110	I listen very carefully to the minister and bring her in, but I just noticed. As a new Member of Parliament, you often notice something, and I have heard the Minister say a few times: I am a European at heart or I am an excellent European. I never heard her say: I am a Dutchman. Then I think to myself: you are a minister here in the Netherlands, you are no longer in the European Parliament or in the European Union, so talk about your Dutch citizenship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u111	I would, of course, like to hear that advice, but once again, it is important, and that is the point, the crux of today's debate, that the Netherlands has been working together with partners and allies, European and non-European, for a long time, with regard to the safety of the Dutch, I would like to say to Mrs Popken. Then she has tabled a second motion. In the motion in part No. 102 she advocates closing the Dutch borders. She won't be surprised that I'm not gonna give it up too. That has not been the subject of debate here today either. I'm not normally so dissuaded from the school of all motions at all, but in her motion in part no. 103 Mrs Diks goes very far, by targeting cyber in PESCO context. I have just said that there is a list of priorities, and cyber will certainly be on it on the advice of Mrs Diks, but a lot of things have already been settled within Europe. Here the suggestion is raised that Columbus' egg is presented in the field of cyber, while there is already a lot of structures. This motion completely ignores that, so I strongly advise against this motion, but I would like to say to Mrs Diks that cyber certainly is on the list of possible PESCO projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u112	Let me ask you a question. You started your reaction to this motion by saying that it should be in PESCO context. I did not make that very clear. I am concerned that the Netherlands wants to play this leading role, but I take the Minister's words to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u113	Then, unfortunately, three dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u114	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-6.u115	We will vote on the motions tabled later today.
