ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the oral questions. We shall begin with Mr Arno Rutte's questions on behalf of the VVD Group to the Minister about the message that Amber Alert is threatening to disappear. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr President. On 4 December this year Abdullah Mazmahor, a 15-year-old deaf, autistic and intellectually limited boy, was found in a garden shed in Schiedam. That was for a very large part and perhaps even entirely due to an AMBER Alert that had gone out the day before. From that moment on, 3 million Dutch were immediately notified on their phones. Through an infinite amount of other media, from RTL News to many online media channels and the NU.nl screens that hung all over the country and that brought the AMBER Alert, the message came to no less than 12 million Dutch. With, as in 92% of the cases, also this time a positive result. You could say: AMBER Alert saves children's lives. Mr. Chairman. AMBER Alert is very successful. It works flawlessly, has a huge civic participation and a huge reach. And at a very low cost, because the many participating companies participate in this initiative for free from their social involvement. One would think: that is cherished and maintained with the support of the Ministry. But there's serious doubt about that. AMBER Alert, as we belonged to RTL News, threatens to disappear because the police would like to do it themselves and have put out a tender for it. This leads to very serious concerns in the VVD. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. 1. Is the Minister also so excited about the huge success of AMBER Alert? 2. Is it true that the police have launched a tender procedure to set up an alert child missing person's own facility and, if so, why? 3. On the basis of what information does the Minister think that a facility implemented by the police itself can be as successful and affordable as AMBER Alert? Can he also comment on the enormous media coverage currently available to AMBER Alert free of charge?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Let me start as I will end later: I want to guarantee that we will continue with AMBER Alert in the coming years. I would also like to say that, as a person and also as a minister, I am very enthusiastic about AMBER Alert in so far as these two do not coincide. Thousands of children in the Netherlands go missing every year. Fortunately, the vast majority of them will soon be recovered. But when the police fear that the life of a missing child is in danger, the prosecution will decide to deploy AMBER Alert. This usually happens a number of times a year. This is precisely where the power of AMBER Alert lies: the immediate and comprehensive use of public and media to do everything in their power to find the child abducted or in danger of life. AMBER Alert brings information about missing or abducted children to the attention of citizens and businesses through advertising screens, social media, highway signs, websites. The service has proved itself in recent years and will do so in the future. I would like to say out loud that any suggestion that goes in the direction of stopping AMBER Alert is unfounded. What's going on? In 2011, a contract was concluded with Netpresenter, the company that facilitates AMBER Alert on the internet. The government is obliged at some point to issue such a contract, such a service. That is the legal obligation, and that also applies to the functionality of AMBER Alert. This is a substantial amount of EUR 1.1 million involved in the contract. A number of years ago, it was said to Netpresenter: unfortunately, we must now move towards a compulsory tender. This tender will take place and will be completed in the summer of 2018. I would like to say specifically that I cannot say anything about the current procurement procedure. I'm not involved in that myself. And rightly so, so it should be. Before I answer your other two questions, I would like to emphasise what I said at the beginning. I can assure you that in the coming years we will really continue with AMBER Alert, this important tool. You may ask me in the Chamber about the outcome of the tender, because it must continue AMBER Alert at the same level. So is it true that a tender has been launched? Yes. Is it true that the police are going to do it themselves? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u5	In any case, it is very good news that the Minister is telling us that the service of AMBER Alert is going to continue, that there is not someone who says "we are going to do it ourselves," because that threat did come to me. That does not alter the fact that the point that is being tendered causes a lot of unrest at the AMBER Alert organisation. It is asked whether this is really necessary. Do you really have to do that? We're talking about a grant relationship. This kind of subsidy relationship, as Professor Van den Brink of Maastricht University says, may indeed be continued by the government. If you know that, if you know that the service is in order right now, that it works well and that people are excited about it, that 92% of the cases are well resolved and 12 million people are reached, is it wise to work with a tender? Wouldn't it be better to continue the grant relationship? If it is to be tendered, can the Minister promise that the people who are currently shaping AMBER Alert will be given a chance in this tender at relatively low costs, because a huge number of parties participate for nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u6	Again, starting point is: we continue with AMBER Alert, and also at this quality level. So we're not gonna compromise on that. That's one. Two: there is a legal obligation to devote to this, because the vast majority is simply a commercial, contractual service. I have just said a few things about this. And three: I cannot comment on the tendering procedure. It's just running according to legal regulations. I am not going to interfere in the substance of that, because then I am going to falsify the rules of the procurement game and then you could have a counterproductive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, Mr Arno Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u8	Yes, chairman, finally. I understand very well that in the event of a tender, the Minister cannot put all the conditions here on the table, because he would indeed distort the rules of the game. But can the Minister at least clarify whether the tender is organised in such a way that the people who have been shaping AMBER Alert with great success for 11 years now have an opportunity to participate in this call for tenders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u9	Absolutely. Anyone can participate in that tender. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. I may have said it a little too sober, but this is happening entirely according to the rules, so that we can have a good party later. That could be any party. You notice, I express myself very neutrally. Anyone, including a party that does it now or a variant of it, can participate in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Rutte. Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u11	First of all, I am delighted to see that the VVD has reservations about the tender. She doesn't have them in the procurement of the TBs, but apparently she does in the procurement of AMBER Alert. I think that is a good development and I congratulate the VVD on that. I would like to ask the Minister whether he will also include in the tender the possibility that a larger number of cases are covered by the AMBER Alert, including the young adults. That's what Mr. Kikken and I have been asking questions about together. The previous minister said he was going to see if young adults could be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u12	Two things. I am afraid I still have to say the chorus that I am not going to talk about the content of the procurement conditions, because that only works wrong in the procurement process. What I would like to say to Mrs Buitenweg, through you, is that the police are looking at the question of how we can make AMBER Alert work even better from the present point of view and with the developments we have now. If I have just guaranteed that we will continue to do so at least at the current quality level, you will already know that that is the aim. The final interpretation of how AMBER Alert is improved, including who you take with you, is ultimately up to the police, but you can ask me about that, especially when this is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u13	AMBER Alert is indeed an important instrument. It is good that the Minister states that he guarantees that the functionality will remain in place in that tender, but to make it quite precise: does this mean that the Minister says that, if another company wins the tender, he will ensure that AMBER Alert does not go off until he is sure that that other concept will work as well in practice as AMBER Alert? Is that how I understand him?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u14	I think you can understand that that way, yes. I would very much like to call this a hypothetical situation, because otherwise you and I will go back into the process. But besides the point that this has to be seen hypothetically, I say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u15	In fact, all the concern has already been removed by the Minister, for which I thank him very much, but his first sentence triggered me, because in his first sentence he said that there might be a difference between the person and the minister. Would he like to tell us a little bit more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u16	I think I have just said that I think the person and the minister are one and the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u17	The second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u18	But the minister said, "not always." I'm interested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u19	That may have been a "party day" schizophrenia at best, but I really think I'm going along with the person I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u20	Speaking of schizophrenia, would the Minister like to continue to make a clear distinction in the approach to this AMBER aspect between the initiators, who have ever taken this very good initiative and who are involved in it, and the commercial parties that host and keep this AMBER Alert in the air? I think that would be very good for the discussion. Do you think he'd agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u21	Nor have I mentioned anyone by name, and I do not think that they should be if they are not here. I have pointed out to you that there is a commercial contract, and it must be tendered. I insist that this tender by the police is not under my control; I would almost say that it is not done in a correct, fair manner under my direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u22	I am not reassured, because contracting actually means killing the AMBER Alert, as it currently exists. I would like a letter from the Minister on how the further process will look and, in particular, what role Burgernet might play in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u23	I had quite a lot of speeches here about the fact that the suggestion that it is being destroyed is unfounded, but I did not think it was the vote to talk about it like that. Now I'm gonna do that. It is not based at all on the fact that it is kilded; that is one. Two: I said at the beginning and at the end of my first term that I guarantee that we will continue with AMBER Alert. Furthermore, in the middle of the text, perhaps it was said very clearly on two thirds: 'at least at the level we now have'. In response to the Member Buitenweg, I indicated that the police are obviously going to do a state-of-the-art procurement and therefore not going to see what it was like when we started it in 2007. No, the police are watching now. So I'm throwing off the suggestion about kills as non-actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u24	The second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u25	I actually let the irritations slip away, but I just want a simple question answered. I asked for a letter with the currently playing relationship between the tender and Burgernet. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u26	See if any other issues could be involved in that tender in the context of the improvement, I leave them to the police again. Let me be clear that there is no annoyance with me in that regard. I just want to emphasise very strongly that we will continue to do so at least at the current quality level. I also said that as a minister and as a person, I very much support it. I don't know what else I can say to get words like "kills" out of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u27	The question was whether a letter could be sent to the Chamber on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u28	Well, of course, Madam President. If you think that what I have said here should be confirmed in writing again, then I am certainly prepared to do so for Mr Kuik. I don't know what the point is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-2.u29	Good. Thank you.
