ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. People who have lived in isolation for five years without gas, water and light or benefit. Very withdrawn people, with mental problems. Or a mother with lots of kids and holes in the floor. People whose water has been sealed off and who have been getting bottles of water from acquaintances for years. Problems that have accumulated. People who withdrew are neglected: they are someone's neighbors or someone's son or someone's mother. If, in four months' time, you find no less than a hundred people in appalling circumstances, then you cannot speak of success. That's actually a drama. However, it is the result of a pilot carried out in Rotterdam. Shanti of housing corporation Woonbron and Brigitta of ggz institution Antes have gone on the road and have just acted where they saw problems. No indications, no poaching, no stamps from the municipality or from the health insurance company. No, they just went to work. Hundreds of people in four months, in Rotterdam alone. You wonder how it can be that in our closed country people are forgotten for so long and are at home in circumstances that we don't wish anyone. Isn't it the city's job to pick this up? But mental health care has been eroded and problems will not be apprehended until they escalate. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. We learn a lot from this pilot, but it will end on April 1st, in a month and a half. Will the Secretary of State cooperate that this experiment, which is successful, can run for a year? And on the basis of the results, will he just say: we're going to do this in all the municipalities, because we don't allow people to unite and neglect when we can just go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, we need to recognise signals from people who have lost their grip on their lives for whatever reason. We must then be able to send the right people to them and ensure that there is a good first shelter. Recently, on 24 January, the Chamber extended its discussions with the Minister on all the actions taking place throughout the country in order to get a grip on this issue: strengthening outpatient care, triage in the emergency room, sometimes a tariff discussion. The rates for the acute ggz have been raised, as well as strengthening the possibilities for transport, the switching team and local perseverance forces, and finally the district teams. So I do think that very practical cooperation between district teams and ggz may sometimes be the ggz in the district teams and sometimes the ggz is called on by the district teams. As Mrs Leijten rightly said, there are also signs in advance, such as not paying bills for rent, gas or light. These could be signals to just go in and make sure that the problems are solved. It's an excellent experiment from Woonbron and Antes. Throughout the Netherlands we look at good practices of neighbourhood teams to learn from such pilots within the social domain and to spread it very widely in the Netherlands. We will certainly take these experiences into account. I am very willing to talk to the municipality of Rotterdam about how we can further stimulate it. I would also point out that there are many more such experiments taking place in the country. We will certainly also involve the success of the inventory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	In fact, I get a little pain in my stomach from the list of administrative hustle and bustle, while at the same time a hundred people are being found in four months who, despite all these switching teams, the tasks of the municipalities, the emergency rooms and the discussion on transport seem to be simply not in sight. What is the charm of what housing corporation Woonbron in Rotterdam and ggz-instituut Antes have done? They have said: we have so many rules and we are so incredibly jammed, but we falter overboard and just get to work. They released two people, Shanti and Brigitta, who went into the neighborhood. They're just doing what they have to do. This also shows, as far as I am concerned, the failure of the closed administrative "everything is correct on paper, but in reality not" policy. I would like us not to say on 1 April that it was a nice experiment and that we did this for six months but that it is gone. The Secretary of State and I will therefore go in consultation with Rotterdam to look at this, but I would like this Secretary of State to give a guarantee. Of course Rotterdam has to participate, but if all this does not work because we meet so much and forget to do something, the Secretary of State will not meet and he will not forget to do anything. Then there must be no words but action and the Secretary of State must ensure that this goes on until 1 January 2018 so that we can see how we can do this everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	I think this is a good experiment that has been developed in good consultation between the municipality, the health insurance companies, Antes and Woonbron and that it should be decided whether or not to proceed with it. I will ensure that these good practices are identified, that this leads to the dissemination of all these good initiatives and that every municipality in the Netherlands that has more experiments can learn from them. We ensure that professionals get enough space and I make sure that all the information is available to bring those good examples to the attention of the VNG or the Trimbos Institute. The approach taken by Antes and Woonbron is one of that, but it seems good that those responsible should decide together with the parties concerned rather than from the office in The Hague. It can also be seen differently: the decentralisation of a number of supporting tasks to the municipalities means that much broader and wider scope can now be looked into to find an answer to the question of how district teams can proactively identify problems. We can also see that this is a success: we are now in the process of seeing problems before and good experiments of this kind are being carried out in this context. Let us give the local parties the space they need and ensure that the good lessons that are drawn from them are widely disseminated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	This is bullshit. I visited this experiment and know that this was not done with the municipality and the health insurance companies. This just came about because they said it's not gonna happen to them. They said they shouldn't because there are no indications, the district team is about it, there haven't been enough police reports yet and there isn't enough on paper. They just got to work. In fact, this experiment shows the failure of that decentralisation and the red tape. All I'm asking this Secretary of State is just to make sure that Shanti and Brigitta can do what they need to do around here until the end of this year, and that they don't find a hundred people in appalling conditions, but that they find more people, that we're going to help those people, and that we can do it all over the country. Is it so hard to say yes to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	I think it is important to look at what is the best local approach to bring together different organisations with different responsibilities, with the aim of avoiding or detecting problems of this kind. I also think it is important that we take note of this and that the whole of the Netherlands knows which approaches are successful and which are not. We do, but let's leave the responsibilities at the scene. Rotterdam is, if necessary, very well able with the institutions and insurers to see whether this approach is a success and should be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	The Secretary of State is talking about positive words when it comes to this: this is a good proposal, it is a good thing that this is happening. But when asked what happens in concrete terms, he says that this leaves it to other parties. But if he does this, the result may be that we're gonna lose this project. I want to hear from the Secretary of State what he can do in that. It is not possible for him to say that this is entirely up to the other parties. The Empire is still system responsible. If within a few months a hundred people have been found falling between the systems, I wonder how many people there are. Then it's probably a multiple of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	Could Mrs Voortman not see that this is a sign of giving more freedom to municipalities and insurers to consider with each other at local and sometimes regional level what is the best approach rather than different rules, cases and indications? So it is now possible for some institutions to say that they are going to deal with this in a different way, that they are going to pool their knowledge in the area of living and care, and perhaps another problem should be involved, for example that of debt debt in order to ensure that comprehensive policies can be implemented at local level. There's going to be successful experiments now. Above all, we must ensure that these successful experiments can be looked at at at local level, that they are pursued if necessary, that policies are made for them and that I say: look at the good examples throughout the Netherlands and let us ensure that every municipality is familiar with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	The big problem in this situation is that this good example ends on 1 April. I have just spoken with the manager, who indicated: after the report in the newspaper, we received a lot of reactions from the country, from colleagues from housing associations and the ggz who run into the same thing. It appears to be particularly involved in the financing and decommitment of funds. So what can the Secretary of State do to ensure that this good example does not end on 1 April at least, and to ensure that similar problems do not run into the same divisions in other places?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	That is exactly why, as part of all the measures we are taking to make these matters easier, I am working with the Minister to promote cooperation between health insurers and municipalities. They're the financiers, and they're both responsible for pieces of the solution. I want them to sit together and make it possible to work in this integrated way. For my part, I cannot judge the reasons why the project should continue or not be set up after 1 April. I am very willing to discuss this with the municipality and the insurer, but it is of course their responsibility to come to an assessment: does the pilot do what they expected? For my part, however, I am very willing to further highlight the positive results that we are seeing today, including the insurance company and the municipality concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	Fighting loneliness is very difficult. Loneliness is of all times. But now we have an example that works well in practice, and I note that the Secretary of State is a bit waiting. The Secretary of State is coordinating and responsible. I would say: get to work and see for yourself what the good ingredients of this pilot are, which apparently works well in practice, and go on rolling it out. The Secretary of State must at least continue with this example and be pleased with it. That's my appeal to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	I have tried to point out that we are working with municipalities and insurers, with the support of Movisie and Vilans, to see what successful approaches are taking place in the country. Sometimes that is based on the history of the institutions that operate in a municipality and sometimes it is based on how the district team is set up. Sometimes the ggz is in there and sometimes the ggz is turned on. Numerous projects run at that point. We are also making it visible to the whole country, so that we know which approaches are successful and which are not. This seems to be a successful approach, so I like to promote it, but it is up to the parties involved to reach that judgment. But, for my part, there is a willingness to say: tell us about these successes, and would it not be a good thing to go through with them? In any case, I am going to publish the results of these and other pilots to the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	We have laws and regulations and civil servants and health insurance companies, and they consult with each other endlessly. It doesn't make people any less lonely or less isolated. Now there is a wonderful initiative of people in Rotterdam, which does work. That ends on April 1st. And now the Minister says, yes, I'll take it with me in the talks. Well, then we know it disappears in that endless discussion. Does the Minister mean it or does the Minister not mean it? Will the Minister ensure that this initiative continues after 1 April, or will the Minister not ensure that this initiative continues after 1 April? Butter on the fish: what will the Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	It's a little strange, isn't it? Now, thanks to a majority in the Chamber, we have all kinds of laws and regulations, which we have said to each other, including in the context of decentralisation: let us make sure that local parties, including local authorities and insurers, are given more room to find solutions that do not come about properly through these channels of legislation and regulation. Slowly, good examples are coming out of that. Initiatives are being taken, freedom is being exploited and a comprehensive and more preventive approach is being taken. That's very nice. For my part, I have said: I think this is very nice; let us ensure that everyone can learn about it, so that they can apply it in their own municipality in their own way with their own circumstances. Then we should not say here in The Hague: that is a good approach, it must be applied everywhere, because that is what we are going to decide here for a moment? Isn't it necessary for us to continue to give them generously? We need to show municipalities and insurers: this is how it can, apply it in your own situation and environment. Let us, above all, keep that space, rather than say from The Hague that this is the right approach and that we are going to do so everywhere. The essence is that if that is a good approach, those responsible parties will continue to do so. For my part, I will at least spread that knowledge and skills throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	Was this your second supplementary question? No? I shall now give the floor to Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	Without doing anything about this good example in Rotterdam, I would like to change my mind. Two weeks ago, we discussed in detail in this Chamber the legislative proposal on compulsory mental health, which we are about to vote on. We also talked about people who are in psychological distress, who are care-avoiding and have actually been forgotten. The bill contained a measure called the observation measure, which could do something for these people. But there's no majority for that in the Chamber. According to the Secretary of State, could the observation measure have meant anything to the group of people we're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	No, Mr De Lange, this debate has already been held at length. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	I can't judge that from my position, with my distance to that pilot. Mr De Lange knows that this observation measure has been discussed extensively in the debate. That is what the proposals have been exchanged on, and the Chamber must then reach an opinion on that point. I can't, from the pilot and the information I have now on that pilot, assess whether an observation measure would have helped or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u22	There are thousands of people living in total isolation, lonely, polluted, poor and often deprived of gas, water and light. There are people who are addicted and in psychic distress. There are people who are slipping. This organisation Antes manages to prevent home expulsions. There are good intentions all over and yet it is difficult to keep such a project in the air. What I really want to ask the Secretary of State is whether it is not time to step back. It was the Kunduz chord that closed not only the nursing homes, but also 30% of the ggz institutions, the inpatient places. Isn't it true that there should be more inpatient places for people so they don't have to live in such a state?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mrs Agema and I probably do not agree on the advantages or disadvantages of the movement that we have set in motion. I note that we have made it possible to ensure that we do not each react from our own booths and cases to the problems, for example on the care side, the debt relief side, the ggz side, the housing side and the work side. We enable municipalities to do so in full. So we're not looking at it from a particular booth. We're looking at what's going on and how we can offer solutions. I think this type of example is an illustration of the fact that this is happening. I call for municipalities and health insurance companies to be given the opportunity to do so. Then each in its own region and municipality can come up with good solutions. We should not prescribe a kind of blueprint from The Hague, but rather indicate what successful approaches are and what is not, so that we can learn from them. I am very pleased that we are gradually coming up with examples where we are going to anticipate problems rather than respond only when there are problems. The fact that we now know more, see more and see more in front of us which people are in trouble is a very good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u24	Your second supplementary question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u25	The elderly who no longer enter the nursing homes by closing the nursing homes are in the emergency room. That is a very clear bottleneck. These people are the victims of closing down 30% of the inpatient sites in the ggz. They're in isolation, without gas, water and light. They're polluted and impoverished, and they're in psychological distress. My question to the Secretary of State was really very clear. Isn't it time to return to those steps and take care of in-house places in the ggz?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u26	If only the provision of more places in the inpatient ggz would solve this problem. This problem is a multifaceted monster. These are people who are psychologically confused or who no longer have contacts, are lonely, avoid caring and no longer pay bills. This must be noted, and professional assistance must be used early, so that people get into care, debt relief or any other kind of housing. It's not about offering a place in an institution. If only that were the solution. The solution is that we need to identify early whether people are in serious psychological distress and get into trouble. Then we have to deal with these problems. If necessary, there must of course be in-house facilities, but in many cases there are many other problems that need to be solved first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you.
