ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	Once again, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. There are several reasons for wanting to prevent or adequately combat an outbreak of infectious animal disease once there is an outbreak. An outbreak of infectious animal disease may carry risks to public health. You want to keep these risks as low as possible. Farmers have a major interest in preventing an outbreak of infectious animal diseases. After all, they deserve their bread with the products or the meat of the animals. A healthy livestock is very important in this respect. Farmers have their own responsibility to deal well with their animals and to combat the spread of animal diseases in their own livestock, but also outside. An outbreak of an animal disease can cause a lot of damage to the individual farmer or, in the further spread, the sector and the BV Netherlands. Today we are talking about the Animal Health Fund. This is a fund which pays for the financing of the prevention and control of animal diseases. The sector and its representatives see the importance of the prevention of animal diseases and of adequate control in the event of an outbreak of disease. The proposal now before us provides for the effective collection of animal health levies. In the past, the product boards were called upon to collect the charges. At that time, the Ministry was responsible for giving substance to the prevention, monitoring and control of diseases together with the sector. The need to take appropriate measures to prevent and combat outbreaks of animal diseases is therefore inescapable. That industry and business are at the cutting edge of these costs is part of this. However, we can also expect the expenditure of the Animal Health Fund to be transparent, both for the paying party and for the Chamber. The VVD has repeatedly asked for a clear justification of the expenditure in the run-up to this legislative amendment, but it is still unclear what costs, for example, have been incurred in the outbreak of avian influenza. In order to maintain the support of farmers, in this example the poultry farmers, it is necessary to clarify the costs involved in monitoring animal diseases, investigating, possibly disposing of an infected farm, the preventive clearance of surrounding farms, the compensation paid for the animals that have been disposed of, logistics and so on. These costs are not clear, and it is therefore not clear whether the approach is efficient and effective. I understand very well that farmers want to have an insight into the accountability of the costs. If the funds in the fund are insufficient, the account can be presented to farmers by increasing the levy one year later. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to say that an improvement is being made in making the costs of prevention transparent. It is also necessary to clarify the costs involved in tackling this problem. It is therefore a question of accountability for the disposal of an infected farm, the disposal of surrounding businesses and so on, as I mentioned earlier. I am considering tabling a motion on this point in the second term. The funding from the Animal Health Fund should be used as well as possible. Consultation with sector representatives is therefore important. To ensure this, I supported the amendment tabled by my colleague Mr Geurts. The disposal of animals due to an infectious disease or to the disposal of surrounding holdings is subject to a fee. The remuneration shall be based on a valuation or on a value table. This table of values is drawn up by the Agricultural Economic Institute. This is done on the basis of a certain system. Why are these values tables not public? Is the Secretary of State prepared, in the interests of openness and transparency, to publish these tables of values, as was the case with the product markets? The present law provides for the possibility of extending the collection of taxable persons to transactions other than the keeping of animals. Why is this hook included? What kind of action are we talking about here? In the meantime, I have tabled an amendment to remove this hook, because the purpose of this law is to collect a levy for the prevention or control of infectious animal diseases. My group believes that a parliamentary route should be followed if we want to ensure that this law can also be used for other acts. I would like to stress that I am not talking here about the possibility of extending to other animal categories. That seems logical to me, and I think it would be very wise to retain that possibility. So it's really specific about other actions. The legislative proposal proposes the possibility of filling the reserve up to a maximum of 40%. In the old situation, that was 20%. Where does this wish come from? Is it also feasible and affordable? And is it also strictly necessary? The Council of State is also critical of this in its opinion. I would ask the Secretary of State to explain this in detail. At a time when charges are going to be collected in a different way, it is also important that they are properly communicated. After all, the bill does not provide for additional charges, but for a different way of collecting the levy for the Animal Health Fund. Good communication is important because in some sectors, such as dairy farming and pig farming, there has been no collection in recent years. In these sectors the reserves from the product shelves have first been poised. Does the Secretary of State have a plan of action? How's he gonna do this? How is he going to ensure that farmers are properly and adequately informed? Prevention is better than cure. This also applies in this context. The prevention of an outbreak of infectious animal diseases is very important: for society, for the farmer, for the sector and also for the public authorities. The risk of outbreaks of animal diseases should therefore be as low as possible. Of course, farmers have their own responsibility: good hygiene and the proper management of farm rules. But there's another element. We are seeing the rise of feral pigs in Eastern Europe, which is at great risk of, for example, the outbreak of swine fever. Good wildlife management is therefore crucial to minimise the risk of outbreaks. In the Netherlands, too, we must be alert. Fauna management must be in order. And if the government or politics chooses a generous policy, then the bill cannot be placed unilaterally with the sector; then there is also a cost involved in this choice. We now apply, with the exception of a single area, a zero position for feral pigs. This is sensible because of safety, but also in order to reduce the risk of outbreaks of animal diseases. I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	I wonder when the last time diseases were transmitted by feral pigs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	That's very topical. We have recently seen in the preparatory documents for the Agriculture and Fisheries Council that it is up to date in Eastern Europe and that attention is also being paid to this in the Agriculture and Fisheries Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	We are here in Western Europe and not in Eastern Europe. Let's stick to the facts. I don't think it's right. Most diseases, including in animals, are caused by the homo sapiens. We don't always have to blame everything on the wild animals. I have another question for Mrs Lodders. I listened to her speech. You cannot prevent the outbreak of a disease in humans and animals, let that be very clear. We are not God Almighty. That's not gonna work anymore. This Secretary of State isn't gonna work either. But if a disease breaks out, does Mrs Lodder agree with what the PVV has been asking for for almost eleven years, namely the hermetic closure of the area around the outbreak?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Graus gave the impression that the VVD would disagree with him. Of course, we must always try to prevent an outbreak. Nor have I argued that this is only done by nature. But let's look at the avian influenza or avian influenza: it is really caused by flying over wild birds and it is not transmitted by humans. Eventually, it's the wild birds that carry the virus. That's one. Two, when it comes to measures in the event of an outbreak, that is not what this legislative proposal is about. I believe that it should be done in an appropriate way and that we should have an insight into how it is done and the costs involved. That is why I discussed the transparency of costs in the first part of my speech. Because then you can see what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	With me, animal life is at the top and only then the cost, in that order. But the costs still have to be made. However, if you intervene in good time and close an area hermetically shut down what is not happening now, you can prevent spread and misery for humans and animals. I drove into an area where foot-and-mouth disease had broken out. I was taken by the Secretary of State in this Chamber by my shoelace that I should not have been there. But I went there to check at night and I could just drive my car around indefinitely. I could drive up and down the farm 100 times and I could drive into the grounds. There was a car with two NVWAs to protect that entire area, miles in size. It just can't be! No one supports me in this, and I cannot understand that. So I'm counting on the support of the VVD if I ask you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	Distribution must be prevented at all times. The measures taken to prevent further dissemination should be adequate. And if you have to, you have to make sure that you can't get into such an area. If that is the case, Mr Graus mentioned the example, 'I think it is right that the Secretary of State should respond to that. But again, that is not enshrined in this law. I think transparency is more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	I have two questions. The first is about transparency. To what extent are the existing accountability mechanisms of the General Court, the budget and their accountability not sufficient in this case? That's my first question. My second question concerns the broadening of the tax base to other matters. Does Mrs Lodder agree with me that, in the case of combating animal diseases, the public authorities must also have a little levy power and that it will always be invoked in consultation with industry? In that respect, I wonder whether it is necessarily necessary to go through the Chamber every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u11	That was two questions. The first question concerned transparency in relation to, for example, the Court's opinion and the annual report of the Animal Health Fund. I have asked a number of times for additional information in preparation for this law. We are no further than the annual report of the Animal Health Fund. For example, I do not know what the cost of preemptive disposal of a number of businesses in an area is in the direction of Mr Graus. Does that happen in an efficient way? That is what I heard Mr Graus say. I would like to see the costs involved. Are the hours used efficiently or can it be more efficient, which makes it cheaper? I am asking not only for the Court to be able to control this, but also for it to play a part in business, because that is what the levy has to be. The second question concerns the power of taxation, as Mr De Groot calls it. There is room in the law for other foundations to be lifted. I think it should go through the parliamentary route if you choose to raise in a different way, because there is a risk. Suppose as a poultry farmer you have a farm with laying hens. Then you have to pay a tax on the number of chickens you have. With the hook in the law, there would then also be a basis to raise, for example, the number of eggs or the number of transport movements. This will tax such an entrepreneur on two and perhaps even three bases. If we choose to do so together, then we have a debate here in which we determine that with each other. This is about the Animal Health Fund, about prevention, i.e. prevention, and the fight against animal diseases. That's what I'd like to focus the law on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u12	Thank you for the answer. I would also like to hear the response of the Secretary of State to the issues of transparency and the tax base. I can imagine that business will always be involved, but I await the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u13	I heard Mrs Lodder pleading for a zero rate for feral pigs. Then I heard Mrs Lodder give an example of avian influenza and the transmission of diseases by wild birds. Is Mrs Lodder also in favour of a zero level for wild birds in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u14	No. Nor has Mr Grashoff heard me pleading for a zero rate for pigs. I have noticed that we have them in many areas in the Netherlands, apart from a single area. This is something we cherish, on the one hand, because of road safety and, on the other hand, because of the risk of spreading animal diseases. There is actually a third element: the prevention of damage to farms, both to farming and to the recreation sector. We have to deal with that carefully. I am, of course, hearing the discussion about this, even in recent years. There are parties who are in favour of a reduction in zero, i.e. a wider admission. This can also affect the risks of animal diseases. I'd like to address that point. If you choose to do so, there is also a cost involved. You can't leave that account one-sided with the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u15	I gave the example of wild birds for a reason. I have tried to make it clear to Mrs Lodder that fighting wild animals to prevent diseases in intensive livestock farming is a complete reversal of the situation. Does Mrs. Lodder agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u16	No, I absolutely disagree with Mr Grashoff. He illustrates this example in this way in order to be right. That zero position is there for a reason. There are three main reasons for this. I address this in this debate because the choice of a more generous policy also has a cost for politics when it comes to wild birds. I am sure that Mr Grashoff agrees with me very much that wild birds are the transmitters of the avian flu virus. I have said several times in this House that the measures to combat them in the case of wild birds have been very adequate in the past year. It remains regrettable that there have been several outbreaks, but the measures have worked in the opinion of the VVD Group. That's just a compliment to the Ministry, the Secretary of State and the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mr. Chairman. The present amendment of the Animal Health and Welfare Act and the Animal Health Act results from the abolition of agri-products. In the debate on the Elimination of Business Bodies Act, the CDA pointed out the great added value of the agro-productions and for the collective organisation in Dutch agriculture and horticulture. The possibility of cooperation has largely been destroyed by the abolition. Sectors are struggling to get targeted research funded. Dutch farmers and gardeners are the best in the world, thanks to the research that was done here together with Wageningen University. The Netherlands has a high-quality technological agricultural sector, which has to compete on the world market. To maintain this, the joint commitment to research and innovation in the sectors and public authorities remains urgently needed. At the time, the Minister stated that private investment was going to make it okay with the investigation. How does the outgoing cabinet look at that today? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. Today's debate is not about the removal of product shelves, but I would like to point out once again that this lifting has been a mistake. This has only cost the public authorities and the agro-industry extra money so far, because the introduction of this law and the efforts needed to make new agreements were not necessary, because we had a well-functioning system with the product markets in relation to the fight against animal diseases. Society and the agro-industry, and thus individual livestock farmers, have a common interest in the control and prevention of animal diseases. The CDA Group wants to give the agro-industry a formal role in setting the levy. That is why, together with Mrs Lodders from the VVD Group, we have tabled an amendment which provides that the levy is not to be fixed except after consultation with the agro-industry in which the levy is levied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u18	I would like to put a question to Mr Geurts on the basis of that amendment, because, as I have read the bill, there is actually a very logical system in it. The levy is based each year on the income and expenditure of the fund, so there will be no need to store it, for example, so that the levy can be reduced. But there will be no deficit, which will allow the levy to rise. That sounds very fair. Are you not getting rid of the basis of that fairly logical system by setting up a consultation with the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u19	I agree with Mr Futselaar that there is currently consultation with the sectors. I believe that, because we are so interested in this, and he too, I am listening to what he has said, I think that we should also put this in place in this legislation for the future. In our amendment, too, we point out that sector representatives are involved in the creation of levies and, to a certain extent, in expenditure. Mrs. Lodders just gave it to me. She was talking about accountability. The D66 Group referred to transparency. That is why this amendment, in order to organise this properly in the legislation, also with a view to the future. After all, the sector is simply the payer of the levy we are talking about today in the context of this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u20	The Geurts, I guess, didn't quite understand what I was going to say, which might be my fault. I feel a great deal for transparency in expenditure, for what Mrs Lodder has said, for what Mr Geurts says and perhaps even for some of the influence of the sector. But as the bill now states, the charges are set fairly neutrally at, frankly, "how much does the fund need at the moment?'. How much do we need? We will adjust the charges accordingly. When you say that the levies must be made in consultation with the sector, you actually cross that rather simple logic. Then you make them part of the negotiations. I think the nice thing about this proposal is that you do not have that kind of negotiation, but that you have a very transparent " Now, yes transparent " that you have built up a very simple system. Can't Mr Geurts agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr Futselaar is quite simplistic about how behind the scenes, if any, these negotiations would run. It's much wider. They are generally agreements with the various animal sectors and the government. It is about ceilings, it is also about expectations, also worldwide. What infectious animal diseases can arise in the coming period? What kind of outbreaks are there in the world? What are the amounts of money involved in this? So it's much wider than sec levy up and down. There's a whole world in there, I can tell. From a previous history I have some experience with that. There's a whole world in there. Then the amount for the levy is only a small part. That whole story you're sketching, which is perfectly normal and which I think is perfectly normal, is based on how things used to be with the product boards. Now that it's being taken over by the government, I think what you and I consider to be perfectly normal should be properly regulated by law, not informally, based on how things went in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u22	Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u23	I notice I'm just waiting to hear what the Secretary of State is going to say. In my view, we interpret the current law in a different way and I also interpret Mr Geurts' amendment differently from his. We'll see about it later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u24	Fortunately, we still have time until next Tuesday's votes. If you need further explanations from me, I am at your disposal. Information to the agro-sector on expenditure from the Animal Health Fund is crucial for the support of a levy. Both the Animal Law and the Animal Health and Welfare Act provide a basis for this. For this purpose, see Section 9.3 of the Animal Law and Section 95e of the Animal Health and Welfare Act. The provisions have not yet entered into force. The CDA Group would like these provisions to enter into force and be implemented. The most elegant thing is that the Secretary of State undertakes to do this. Is he willing to do that? Since 1 January 2015, the government has been responsible for the animal health levy. In poultry farming there was a derogation from the product shelf system and a double levy was imposed on poultry farmers. Here, Mr Futselaar, what kind of problem this informal process could entail. The CDA asked written questions about this. The cabinet then compensated for the double taxation. In the note following the report, I read that there were, nevertheless, 245 objections to the 2015 tax attacks. As I read, a decision would have been taken on all the objections raised in February 2017. What is the situation with regard to the handling of these objections? What about the 2016 charges, at least the objections to them and their possible handling? Due to the outbreak of avian flu several years in a row, the poultry sector will have to pay much higher levies in the following years. That has been agreed, and that makes sense, but has the Secretary of State clearly communicated this to the poultry farmers? While we are talking about this bill, I would like to make two more points. The Secretary of State has the possibility of granting one-off compensation for free-range eggs. Can the Secretary of State give us the state of play on this matter this afternoon? I also believe that the question of marketing and acceptance of meat from vaccinated animals should be a more important priority for the cabinet. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State again to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the revision of the system of charges under the Animal Health Fund. Let me say first of all that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is in favour of the existence of this fund. It is sensible that funds should be allocated and earmarked for the control, monitoring and prevention of infectious animal diseases and zoonoses. Unfortunately, over the past few decades, we have seen quite a few examples in which this was necessary. Think of outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease, Q fever and recently avian flu. This type of outbreak has a huge impact on people, animals and farms. Animals have to be killed and masse, farms lose animals and get into trouble and people get sick, sometimes even sick. When I'm talking to Q fever victims, the stories shut me up. This new system is necessary because the product shelves have been abolished. They picked up the money for this. Now the government is responsible. That's what we're at the heart of. It offers flexibility and guarantees. GroenLinks also supports the increase in the proposed maximum size of the crisis reserve. We think it was really too low. If there is an outbreak, it is necessary that there is sufficient cash. Is that reserve really enough? Can the Secretary of State go into that again? If there is a serious outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease or swine fever, is such a reserve sufficient? In addition, my group has questions about the ceilings set. We wonder if they are not too low. How much has animal levies been levied in 2015 and 2016 as set out in Article 91n? The Animal Health Fund is not complete in the eyes of the GroenLinks Group. In the event of outbreaks of animal diseases, not only farms are affected, but also animals and humans. For animals, this means that we should have different policies in livestock farming. We have too many animals on too small a surface, which suddenly means that huge numbers of animals have to be slaughtered in the event of outbreaks. Companies that are at a small distance from each other are often all screwed up, as we saw in the outbreak of the avian flu. Many animals were killed in a short time to control the avian flu. That gives us time to think about the way we keep animals. Is the natural resistance sufficient, for example? The reports written after the 2003 avian influenza indicate the importance of developing more natural resistance in poultry. The report, led by the InnovationNetwork Green Space and Agrocluster, concludes that we can increase the natural resistance by giving animals more room for natural behaviour and looking at natural nutrition. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what has been done with these recommendations. Human victims aren't dealt with at all. I mentioned the Q fever. It has caused enormous damage to many people and has even cost a number of people their lives. Many people still experience the problems of this disease every day. Those people are empty-handed. They must sue against companies and against the State. Through the Animal Health Fund, we manage to grant compensation to companies. This is done with limited resources from the sector, but also with substantial public resources if necessary. However, we do not do that for the victims. GroenLinks believes that this really needs to change. I have just tabled an amendment which provides for the granting of compensation to victims by means of a General Measure of Management from the Animal Health Fund. I would very much like to ask the Secretary of State if he can respond to this principle. Also the breakdown "
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u26	Before proceeding, I give the floor to Mr Geurts. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u27	I understand Mr Grashoff on Q fever. Together with the SP, the CDA has already tried to organise a number of things by means of motions and amendments. Unfortunately, this was not achieved in a previous period. Here's what's important. We also have avian influenza, avian flu. It's really from wild birds. Now I have just read your amendment and heard your explanation. You say that for the outbreak that is taking place, we know that, unfortunately, in the case of avian influenza, there are also occasional human victims who have to pay for the sector. That's what you're saying with your amendment. Are you really of that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u28	Yes, of course, otherwise I would not table this amendment. We wouldn't have the problem of avian flu either if we didn't have very intensive poultry farming. Bird flu could then be limited to a very rare case somewhere and there would be a very, very rare case of transmission to humans. It is inherent in the millions, millions of poultry that we have in the Netherlands in intensive livestock farming. This is a risk, a social risk, which is one-on-one linked to the existence of this sector. It therefore bears co-responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u29	I see a certain intensity on Mr Grashoff's part, while I try to ask my question in peace. Does Mr Grashoff agree with me that in this case animals kept outside are a much greater danger than animals kept in stables?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u30	As soon as there is a risk of outbreak of avian influenza, measures shall be taken which may also mean keeping animals kept outside or being kept indoors or covered. Such measures seem logical and necessary in the event of an outbreak. Mr Geurts can keep trying endlessly to defend the legitimacy of an unimaginably large poultry sector, but we are not getting closer. It is obvious that there is a risk in the millions of chickens we have in this country. I'd like a little less of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u31	Let me make a brief comment on the Minutes. It is constantly suggested that wild animals cause or spread diseases. That's what they said. That is so far, but that does not mean that wild animals are the cause of this. This is an essential point to make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u32	I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Graus on this point. My group is critical of the distribution of costs, as agreed in the 2015-2019 agreement. In addition to European funds, resources will be provided by the Empire and the sector. Disease monitoring and monitoring are fifty-fifty shared by the Empire and the sector. In the first instance, 100% of the cost to the sector is a cost to the sector, except where the cost to the sector exceeds the ceiling, as agreed in the Covenant. Then all the costs are for the government. My group finds that strange. Maybe the ceiling's too low? Should we propose a different variant of costs above the ceiling, perhaps a breakdown of costs, where the sector is still at a standstill for part of these costs and the other part of our taxpayers, who have not asked for them? In any case, I am preparing an amendment to allow 50% of all expenditure above the ceiling to be borne by the sector. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to point out a few factual errors in Mrs Lodder's contribution. I once got right from former Minister of Agriculture Verburg of the CDA. Mrs Lodders said that we need to shoot wild boar in the context of animal disease spread. Then I asked her, "When did a wild boar spread an animal disease?" I don't remember, I have to be honest. Secondly, Mrs Lodders said that wild boars must be shot in the context of road safety. Now the case is that in my memory about 4,500 pigs had to be shot at the Veluwe when I started here as a Member of Parliament. I then told Minister Verburg, who was in trade-k, that wild boars, what are panic animals, would run for miles if they were shot at and that the number of accidents would increase as the number of pigs would decrease. I predicted that here. The Minister stored this; she said a few months later that the number of accidents had indeed increased while the number of pigs had decreased by thousands. So my prophecy came true. Why is that? Wild boars don't want to live with people at all; they're afraid of people. I'm more afraid of many people than I am of a wild boar. If you leave those animals alone, they'll throw less young. If you shoot them, they'll throw more boys. You shoot one and run dozens in blind panic into residential neighborhoods and cross the road. I saw it in De Meinweg National Park. Every time animals were killed, deer or other animals, there was hunted that day. I'm not stupid; I'm an experienced expert. I will tell you that every expert on the subject agrees with me. Members of parliament are neither competent in this matter nor the Secretary of State. Please stop pronouncing that bullshit. As long as you leave animals alone, they throw less young and cause less nuisance. Please leave them alone. This will also reduce the spread of diseases. Now it is said that they spread the diseases, but they do not cause them, and that is what it is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mr Graus said earlier in his speech that he is not aware of any situations in which wild animals are only responsible for the spread of infectious animal diseases. I'll help him. Aujeszky's disease is detected among wild boars. In the pig farming sector, especially in Germany, there is a great deal of concern about this and above all because organic pigs can be contaminated with it. That's an example. I would ask Mr Graus to look into this: Aujeszky's disease in Germany.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u35	I like to get a reaction to this; I do ask a few times every year. I believe, and with me, that many veterinary medicinal products are a source of many animal diseases due to the excessive vaccination of animals and the freezing of their immune systems. Moreover, this does not mean that if an animal or a bird spreads a disease, Mr Grashoff said that even if it is responsible. No one has been able to show me that if those animals carry the disease, those who have spread to animals that are in hermetically sealed cages. Mr. Geurts has been a pig farmer. I went with the pig grafting during my internship. When you go into a pigsty, your airways and your eyes shut. Those stables are hermetically sealed off. He doesn't fool me that animals that pass by for miles in the perimeter are spreading a disease. That's total bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u36	I do not know how old Mr Graus is, but his student days have been a while. Maybe he should take a look at today's pig farming. However, that was not at the heart of my question and it is not an answer to it either. I said that the pig farmers in the usual pig farming sector are extremely concerned about Aujeszky's disease. Mr Graus says that the pigs are hermetically locked up. I have pointed out that organic pigs are kept out, so they are at greater risk of infection by wild boar. He can shake no now, but maybe one day he can come to me with a stuffed cake in his hand. Then I'll show him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr Geurts must then give an example. I know a lot of organic farmers. Those animals are walking around freely there because they come into contact with microbacteria, with soil-based organisms, with soil bacteria. Those animals often have a much better immune system. Let's face it. Why do gypsy children suffer less from asthma and allergies? Because they play in the mud, because they wash their hands less often, because they have black nails and stick them in their mouths. Those animals get micro-organisms because they don't live too hygienically. A biological animal that rumbles in the mud receives soil-based organisms that give it a stronger immune system. Mr Geurts can laugh now, but at the time I worked in veterinary medicine, I brought bacteria from Japan to the Netherlands to cure animals. That's what they call probiotics. I was laughed at by everyone, also by all veterinarians, but now almost everyone has a bit of decent product pre- and probiotics. I've been laughed at for years, but look how far I've been ahead of my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u38	Just a little bit before the report of this plenary session, Mr President. I didn't laugh at Mr. Graus. I think it is incredibly handsome of Mr Graus that, when we talk about an Animal Health Fund and a law, we come to Gypsy children. That's why I'm smiling. I thought, "How's he gonna do it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u39	What I wanted to say was that gypsy children are children playing outside. So they're out there all the time. They're on the stool of animals. They eat rabbit chops. They have black hands. They don't have hygiene, they don't wash their hands with soap every time. Those children are much less susceptible to evil micro-organisms and diseases. That's really true, that's a fact. And those kids are never vaccinated. I've never had my animals inoculated, ever. On average, they all get older than all those animals that are vaccinated. My animals are getting older than vaccinated animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u40	What kind of animals do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u41	Of course, I've had a lot of things in my life. I still have a lot of niggers and birds, all pickups. I work with shelters. I pick up animals that no one else wants, with broken beaks and you name it. Failed animals, I pick them all up. Unfortunately, I had to put my very best friend, my dog, to sleep. That too was a caught, abused animal. But I would just like to say the following. I didn't get inoculated. I've been in all kinds of countries, and I was the only one who didn't get sick. Ever since my mom got the flu shot, she's been getting the flu. She never had the flu! I'd like to hear a reaction to that. I believe that Health Minister Schippers would be more on my side, because her brother is a veterinarian. Probably has a little more sense of business, too. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. And in response to Mr Geurts, who asked how it came to be in this debate: that was because Mrs Lodder said that wild animals are causing animal diseases and I am fighting them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u42	Mr Graus said something like this in an interruption on this point in my direction. As far as the report is concerned, I would like to point out that Mr Graus is also entitled to his opinion in this House. I would like to add that my story is based on research and practical experience, that is, on the experiences of many farmers in the country, who have to deal with this on a daily basis. In the spread of avian influenza, for example, there are actually seven to eleven times more infections in organic holdings with free-range chickens than in animals that are otherwise kept. Mr Graus just gave the example of pigs. Read the documents in preparation for the LNV Council in Brussels: Poland and other Member States are constantly drawing attention to this. Once again, as far as the report is concerned, I would like to point out that Mr Graus is entitled to his opinion, but that I am based on the available reports and on the signals from other Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u43	You've made your point. Actually, I'd like to introduce you to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u44	I would like to respond briefly to this. One day, smoking was pretended not to be unhealthy. There were even so-called experts on the subject who said: no, smoking doesn't give you cancer; are you crazy, that's all bullshit. There are also researchers who say what Mrs Lodder says, and there are researchers who say what I say. I really believe that my veterinary think tank is one of the best in the world. That's what I'm relying on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr Graus can rely on that. As a Member of Parliament, I try to feed on this type of debate in different ways. I do so with information from the Secretary of State and his ministry, but also in other ways: I read reports; I read the preparatory documents for the LNV Council. It's not all bullshit that's been put in there. We must take that into account. I almost find it annoying when all kinds of other things are attached to this, such as smoking and gypsy children. None of that has anything to do with this debate. Let us stick to the legislative amendment that is now before us: the amendment of the law relating to the collection of a levy for an Animal Health Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u46	But dear Mrs. Lodders, you started with that nonsense. I'm responding to your nonsense. And I would also like to make the following point. Mrs. Lodder's appealing to reports from office clerks. I appeal to the practice. I said here once, as a Member of Parliament, to a minister: if you start shooting swine, the number of pigs will decrease; but they will then throw more young and they will, panicked by all those popping, flee to the roads and cause more accidents. Months later it turns out that that really happens. Those are facts, Mrs Lodders. Those aren't reports, they're facts. That's empirical research. It exists. Actually, it is. Mrs Lodders talks about reports, but one says this and the other says that. I base myself on reality. If I, as a Member of Parliament, predict that more pigs will run across the street when one starts shooting at pigs and if that prediction comes true and the Minister agrees with me, Mrs Lodders has no right to say that I am wrong. Even the minister said I was right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u47	I get the impression you two aren't getting together through these interruptions. Mrs. Lodders, you made your point. It's clear where you stand. The same applies to Mr Graus. That is why I propose that Mr Graus continue his speech, as long as he is not finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u48	Mr President, that seems to me to be a very good proposal. We're not getting together. I do not want to dwell on the last remarks made by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u49	You do not have to respond to this, Mr Graus. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mrs Lodders said that in her speech. I was just reacting to that. Sorry, I'll continue my argument now. The government tries to prevent and combat animal diseases in livestock farming in various ways. It's impossible to avoid. I can't do that at all. Then God Almighty must be here. Then the Secretary of State should be able to walk on water, but we can't. We can only reduce the risk of outbreak and spread. I wonder if the excess grafts play a role in this. In my opinion, this is happening less and less with small pets. Doctors wonder if they have to do this every year. How can children who are not grafted and are very much in contact with microorganisms, soil-based organisms, soil bacteria, be much less susceptible to diseases and allergies? Asthma is virtually non-existent in these children. How is this possible? Explain that to me, Mr Secretary of State. Since the removal of product shelves on 1 January 2015, the PVV has been a strong supporter of this and has taken the lead with the VVD in this regard, the tax is imposed by the Empire. The Empire has made agreements with industry, which are laid down in the Covenant funding to combat infectious animal diseases. The bill provides for the possibility to adjust annually the rates that we are pricing and the costs to be better distributed between business and the Empire. Because the size of livestock farming in some places has a negative impact on the quality of life and on public health, the Cabinet is proposing an interim law for livestock-tight areas to promote the quality of the environment. I also commend the government and this Secretary of State, especially after all the warnings we have had, including from GGD Netherlands. Business and public authorities have a common interest in the prevention and control of animal diseases. That is why it is reasonable for costs to be shared. I will advise my group to support this review. There may also be some good amendments which I can subscribe to or which I will at least support if they are of interest. I believe that this review will be a very real and reasonable solution. In the ten-and-a-half years that I have been a Member of Parliament, I would like to call for additional help, outside the NVWA, in the event of an outbreak of life-threatening diseases, both for humans and for other animals. We all know that the NVWA is understaffed. We have one or two debates almost every year about under-employment, the lack of quantity and quality at NVWA. We cannot therefore expect the NVWA to close down a risk area, an infection zone or an outbreak area. Hermetic must then be by the way, because hermetic is impossible. In any case, it concerns the supply routes and the landing and landing of people and animals to and from the area to be locked by the NVWA. I did it. A few years ago, when Secretary of State Bleker of the CDA was still here, I drove from my hometown of Heerlen to The Hague. On the news came the news that foot-and-mouth disease had broken out in an area in North Limburg. We drove past Midden-Limburg, adjacent to Noord-Limburg. I asked you to bow down at the time. We drove our car into the area. Then it turned out that there was absolutely no control. We could just drive into the area. We're in a bar where farmers are going to ask where the infected farm was. We could just drive to the company. After two hours of driving around we found one car from the NVWA, the Dutch Food and Service Authority. There were two people in there who were busy arguing. They didn't even notice that we drove by 10 times. Of course you can't. In other countries, I know that this is happening, and even the army is being called in, especially when it comes to deadly diseases. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State: what happened after that report from me? Secretary of State Bleker gave me right in that report at the time; it would be resolved. What happens if a human and animal fatal animal disease breaks out? How is such an area locked? In the meantime, is help from outside the NVWA also being sought?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u51	I just heard Mr Graus say that during the period when Mr Bleker was State Secretary, who was in the period 2010-2012, he was in an area in the Netherlands where foot-and-mouth disease had broken out. I think he's mistaken in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u52	That's right. You're right. It was indeed another disease. You're right. It was in mid-Limburg. You're right it wasn't foot-and-mouth disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u53	Possibly it was avian influenza, but that's not exactly what I have on the retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u54	Exactly. It was at the time of Secretary of State Bleker. You're right. Thank you for your timely response so that I can still fix this incorrect information, because you are right, Mr Geurts. I was wrong; that's right. I hope that Mr Geurts agrees with me that it was an infectious disease after all. That was stated at the time, but nothing had happened to close the area. People could just drive there, through the access and exit roads. There was also no check on whether people were transporting animals, while people, when such a disease breaks out, often start transporting animals in panic; that is well known. We must prevent this, because in this way diseases can also be spread, regardless of the fact that in the past, I think, diseases have also been spread by inspectors and enforcers, when the hygiene rules were not as they are today. I'm really sorry about that. That is why I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. I will continue with my speech. We once asked for 500 men of animal police. Everyone laughed about that then, because there were too many of them. However, you can see that the current 200 taskkeepers are unable to handle animal welfare, i.e. the animal police, the 144 reports, of 144 rescue an animal. They don't have time for detectives anymore, forensics. They can't even do that anymore. They can't even check preventively at a horse market or at a zoo or you name it. They don't even have time for that anymore. We had asked for 500 men to use them in these kinds of calamities. Again, there are not enough people for that now. I would like to hear what solutions the Secretary of State proposes, especially in view of the growing number of animal executioners. There's even a 10-year-old girl who's already turned her neck around in cold blood; it's getting crazier every day. What is the Secretary of State going to do to protect animals from such sick idiots? We are talking about combating the spread of animal diseases, but I would also like to mention the approach to animal executioners. Their number seems to grow by the day. I really can't keep up anymore. I often have sleepless nights of it. I would like to see action and reaction from the Secretary of State on animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is wiser because of damage and shame. I refer to swine fever in the late 1990s, the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in 2001 and the avian flu in 2003. In the following years there would be avian flu every year, and in 2006, 2007 and 2008 blue tongue broke out. Sad low point is the outbreak of Q fever in 2007 which in any case killed 72 people, but probably even more. These were people we haven't been able to diagnose, and on top of that thousands got sick. It is no coincidence that the largest outbreak of Q fever ever occurred in the world history in the Netherlands, as well as a series of other outbreaks of animal diseases. That is not because Dutch farmers would treat their animals carelessly or carelessly, because the opposite is true. Nor is it the case that we lack knowledge to prevent or combat animal diseases. On the contrary. It is also not the case that the Netherlands has been flooded with wild animals spreading over the last twenty years. The opposite is true. All this is a simple consequence of two factors: a small, very densely populated country with a large, very intensive livestock farming, where people and cattle also live relatively close together. That densely populated country is a fact. The extent of intensive livestock farming is a political issue which is widely debated in the House of Representatives. The SP has already argued here that the current livestock is unsustainable in size, partly because of the structural problem of animal diseases. But now that we have this big intensive sector, it is our duty to do everything we can to avoid animal diseases and control them when they break out. Indeed, we have become wiser because of damage and shame and we have developed measures, among other things, through all kinds of outbreaks. These measures cost money, and that is why the Animal Health Fund has been set up, of which we are discussing today an amendment to the charging proposal. It is legitimate to ask why we are actually regulating this collectively. Indeed, one can argue hard-economically that animal diseases are a natural part of an individual farm risk of livestock farming and that all costs should therefore be borne by individual entrepreneurs. However, that does not do justice to reality. First of all, the social consequences of animal diseases are enormous: for the environment, where there is fear, for people who become ill, for people who are confronted with the images of large-scale slaughter, for animals and not to forget about entrepreneurs and their families themselves. There's no one who wants that situation. You cannot just leave this issue to individual entrepreneurs. Preventive measures must be comprehensive, otherwise they do not make any sense. Individually, you can't do an investigation. Screening and monitoring must be independent. Besides, you don't want good farmers to be the victims of freeriders, and you don't want a company in need to cut down on this issue. There must therefore be a collective approach that has taught us over the past few years, and that is why there is the fund. You have to fill a fund. Is it reasonable that, in some cases, if, for example, ceilings are exceeded, the public authorities should contribute to a fund necessary to bear the consequences of a private industry? As far as we are concerned, the social importance of preventing and limiting animal diseases is so great that it can be legitimate. However, it is only fair that the sector itself pays the lion's share: it used to be through product boards, now we work with levies. For the SP, it is important that the rates charged are directly linked to the balance between income and expenditure of the fund, as set out in the bill, and that these rates can be fixed each year through an AMvB. In this way, we can prevent unnecessary money from being deposited with levies that are too high in practice, but also from being potted at times when it is difficult and more money is actually needed. The ceiling amounts set every five years are, in turn, a certain guarantee of stability for entrepreneurs, which the SP is not entirely happy with, because this means that in the event of a breach of the reserve fund, part of the account ends up in the government. Nevertheless, it seems to be a system whereby the financing of the necessary commitment to the prevention and control of animal diseases is collectively regulated in a proper way and where the account is primarily transferred to the sector. The SP is therefore in agreement with the proposal for charges. That is why we do not think the amendment is entirely logical. After all, if you include in the law that sector representatives are involved in the creation of the levy, you actually undermine the idea that each year the levy is automatically adjusted to what is needed for the fund. That is why we are not inclined at the moment to support the amendment. Finally. Mr Grashoff has just spoken about the discrepancy that exists. We have taken care of business, but there is very little for human victims of animal diseases. I have considered doing something for that, but I have also counted my buttons and I realize that we are in a missionary period where there are probably few things to do in the Chamber in this area. I would like to draw attention to one small aspect, because I think that as a Chamber we should do something about the human side. It concerns the financing of care for victims of animal diseases. Q-support, the supporter of Q-fever patients, is scheduled to cease to exist in 2018, according to the current regime, and there is no provision for any continuation of the organisation or a new form of organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u56	I would like to know what Mr Futselaar thinks of my amendment. He's talking about a missionary cabinet and that sort of thing, but we're just legislators. If the House accepts an amendment, that is simply a fact. That has nothing to do with a missionary cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u57	I haven't read it yet, so I can't give a 100% guarantee, but it sounded like a positive proposal. This has more to do with the question of why I have not tabled such an amendment myself. I did not do that because I suspected that such an amendment might not make it. That was my trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u58	This is evident from the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u59	We shall, of course, vote as SP as we see fit. I was asking for attention for Q-support. There is no continuation of the organization in sight and time is running out. In 2018 the organisation stops and after the summer they start, anticipating the end, with the end of that organisation. Therefore, no new cases of patients are accepted. As far as we are concerned, this is not really a matter that can wait until a formation is complete, especially now that this formation seems to take some time longer than was originally hoped. I don't have a motion. I would like to ask my colleagues to consider whether, before the summer recess, we can make some kind of decision, which guarantees some degree of continuity for Q-support or a successor. I make it on purpose vaguely, because I don't want to be too leading. However, we are facing a current problem. Clock's ticking. I'm trying not to be too political, but I'm trying to help solve a problem. I will give it to my fellow Members for consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u60	Thank you. I suggest we suspend for ten minutes. After that, the Secretary of State will answer the questions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal for a revision of the system of fees for the Animal Health Fund. These are the rules and the systems used to finance expenditure on the control and prevention of infectious animal diseases. For its financing, the Animal Health Fund has been set up. The starting point is that business contributes to costs. My predecessor made agreements on the distribution of these costs in 2015. Until 2015, the contribution of the business community was collected by the product boards through a production levy. The product boards had the power to impose those charges. When the product shelves were removed, that possibility expired. This is why another option has been sought to collect the sector contributions. In the GWWD, the Health and Welfare Act for Animals, there was already a possibility to impose such a charge, but that original charge did not enter into force at the time through the intervention of successive agreements, whereby financial agreements were made with the products. However, since 1 January 2015, the possibility of charging has been used in the law. But the existing tax system in the law is based on the situation of 17 years ago and therefore not on the current situation and the current arrangements. Thus, according to the existing system, a charging rate can only be adjusted once every three years and only up to 50% of the previously uncovered costs can be included in the new rate. This means either that high charges must be imposed in advance in order to cover all expenditure, or that there is a budgetary risk for the Empire. Both situations are undesirable both for business and for the Empire. That was the reason to change the system in the law. We're discussing that bill now. This bill, which is in line with the agreements made in the covenant, ensures that financial pressure on business can be maintained at an acceptable level, while at the same time overlooking the budgetary risks for the Empire. The legislative proposal provides more flexibility in implementation and leads to a better understanding of the charging system and to a balance sheet of financial risks and financial pressures. A number of general questions have been asked about this bill. A few amendments have also been tabled. Some of the questions were actually about the amendments. So I will respond to them at the end of my speech when I come to the amendments. I shall begin with the general questions that have been raised about the involvement of the sectors and transparency. Then I will deal with the questions concerning the distribution of costs and the category of other questions. The amendments will then be dealt with. First of all, questions have been asked about the involvement of the various sectors and the transparency of costs and tariffs. Mrs Lodders specifically asked about this. Each year, of course, an annual report and a final law on the Animal Health Fund must be drawn up. They are offered to the Chamber on Accountable Day. It specifically lists and explains all expenditure. The Chamber just got the annual report. Members will be able to find out what was spent last year. Expenditure on prevention shall always be budgeted in advance on the basis of the costs of the pre-established monitoring programmes. Of course, expenditure on combating can only be made clear afterwards. For consultation with industry, sector-specific statements of expenditure are made, so that it is clear which costs are allocated to which sector. This is also the subject of consultation with industry at official level every quarter. There are also regular additional discussions on the accountability of expenditure. In the annual report and the final law, the Chamber can find all the information in any case. Furthermore, we have just had a period of avian flu. We're shutting it down now. I can imagine that was also a bit in Mrs Lodder's question that we also specifically understand the costs of the fight and the measures we have had to take in the context of the avian flu. So I would like to see whether we can make that clear separately, regardless of the annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u62	I am pleased with that last remark made by the Secretary of State, because I have indeed looked at the annual report on the Animal Health Fund and looked for precisely that responsibility about specific logistics surrounding, for example, the approach to avian influenza. I cannot therefore get that information and see whether, for example, the NVWA's course of action in the field of logistics is efficient. Because you can't compare these cases. Now it's always hard, but I'm looking for that kind of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u63	I do not dare to say that you can get out of all the information immediately whether everything has happened in the most efficient way, but it also seems to me that it is good for the understanding if we try to explain to each animal disease crisis that has taken place what expenditure is involved. We need to look at how this relates to the accountability that we, as a cabinet, give to Parliament through the annual report and the final law. I will map this out and inform the Chamber further about it. I think that's the right way to go. Mrs Lodder also asked about the value tables, in which you can see what fees are being paid when animals need to be disposed of, which unfortunately is the case with animal disease crises. In the current situation, an update of the value tables is requested per outbreak, as the value of animals fluctuates over time. In doing so, the Wageningen WecR, formerly the LEI, looks at the current market value. It can change every week, so a value table is very quickly outdated information. However, I would like to ask WECR to publish the updated tables every time, with the remark that we do not ask for an update of the value tables until there is an outbreak. There may be outdated information online, but at the time of an outbreak it can be very helpful if updated information is available online. I will therefore pass on that request. Furthermore, Mrs Lodders asked in general how we are going to communicate about this bill. Apart from our own communication, of course, we also communicate with the interest organisations and the sector organisations. They are closely involved in this process. It will continue to be so that we can work together in communication. They have quite direct lines to livestock farmers, namely to their own members and their own supporters. Sectoral organisations are also involved in the AMvB, which is drawn up on the basis of this bill to set tariffs. Through an internet consultation, this AMvB is widely announced. In the run-up to the moment when the charges will actually be imposed, RVO will also communicate widely on the systems and new tariffs. In that case, together with the sector organisations, communication will also be developed. The government has the line to communicate through the media and through RVO, but the sector organisations themselves also have direct channels. It helps if they also contribute to communication. Mr Geurts asked if I would lay down rules on the conditions under which payments are made and on the information on expenditure. Here too, the sector representatives are well involved in the accountability of expenditure and the establishment of tariffs. I take that for granted. I shall now turn specifically to Mr Geurts' amendment on consultation with the sector organisations. There were also questions about costs and the crisis reserve. Mrs Lodder asked whether it is real that we should assume a maximum of 40% for the crisis reserve. It seemed to assume that the reserve would actually be increased from the current 20% previously agreed to to 40%. That is not the case. The agreement in the covenant is based on a reserve rate of 20% of the ceiling as a crisis reserve. We'll stick to that. The bill only provides for a maximum size of the crisis reserve. 40% is included, inter alia, in order to have flexibility in the building up of reserves. This may be necessary, for example, after a major outbreak. If, in future, an increase or a reduction in the reserves of the crisis is necessary or possible, then I shall also be able to do so for my successor, when it comes to discussing it with industry, before a decision is taken. This can also be the subject of agreements in a covenant. Relevant to this is the fact that the crisis reserve should not be too high on the one hand: this would unduly affect the resources of farmers, as this would result in a higher levy than is necessary for expenditure. On the other hand, it is also wise that sufficient resources are available to enable immediate action to be taken in the event of an outbreak. You have to be able to pay for those measures. Because you also want to avoid having to raise a lot of extra afterwards. That is why this ceiling is included in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to place a number of interruptions so that we can keep the second period as short as possible. Do I agree with the Secretary of State when I say that the crisis reserve remains at 20%, but that, in exceptional cases or in a situation that occasionally occurs, a proposal is being discussed with the sector to increase the reserve to up to 40% or to a percentage between 20 and 40? And can this only be done in consultation with the sector? In what way will the Chamber be informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u65	It is not true that this can only be done in consultation with the sector, but it is common practice. If we are going to work with a higher size of the crisis reserve, it is appropriate to discuss it with industry before a decision is taken. And it is customary for the Chamber to be informed of a decision taken by a member of the Cabinet, so at that time the Chamber will also be informed by letter. However, as I said, it is also possible that new agreements will be made in a future agreement on this subject. It's possible. I would also like to add, in response to a question by Mr Grashoff, that the estimate is that the ceiling amounts are all sufficient at the moment. Both the ceiling amounts and the level of reserves are based on what we now know. However, it may be wise in the future to maintain a higher crisis reserve, if, for example, we are faced with an increase in outbreaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u66	It then seems that there is some kind of reference calculation and some kind of "theoretic model outbreak." We have then estimated the costs involved, and this would be done on the basis, for example, of historical insight. That's what it looks like. Could the Secretary of State say a little more about this? Because now he's actually saying, yes, we think it's enough. Well, I guess I'll have to believe that. I wonder if it is enough. I'll hear, if I could, a little more support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u67	These amounts have, of course, been determined on the basis of the experience gained in recent years and the assessment of the risks involved. For although we have not experienced certain outbreaks in recent years, they could occur. On this basis, agreements were also made on the level of those ceiling amounts in the covenant. That covenant is over two years old. The amounts now included in the law are therefore not new. The Chamber has known it for two years. That's what agreements were made in the covenant based on those assessments. And the practice of the last two years also teaches us that it is all sufficient and that we can do well with it. In addition, the legislative proposal thus offers the possibility of making adjustments if it turns out to be different in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u68	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u69	Mrs Lodders has asked a question about fauna policy. Her question has to do with both fauna policy and costs. She said that it should not be the case that the bill of a generous fauna policy goes to the sector alone. In particular, she referred to the possible spread of animal diseases, for example by wild boar. This was also the subject of some discussion with Mr Graus. Mr Graus asked about the spread of animal diseases by wild boar. It is true that animal diseases such as classical swine fever, African swine fever and Aujeszky's disease do not occur in wild boars in the Netherlands. This is also monitored by blood tests in shot wild boars. This means that in the Netherlands the risk of the introduction of highly contagious animal diseases by wild boar is very low at the moment. In the past there was actually an agreement that a zero level of wild boar would be maintained outside the Veluwe. That is no longer real, given the spread of wild boar. Provinces must determine how they want to deal with the management of fauna. That's a jurisdiction of the provinces. This concerns both damage control and population management. This responsibility has been given to the provinces through the Nature Protection Act. It is therefore the provinces that determine how to deal with the risk of spreading animal diseases by wild boar. The Ministry facilitates the talks and thus also conducts talks with the provinces and with the pig sector. These discussions are mainly to explore the possibility of risk-based fauna policy. This should also lead to the lowest possible cost. As I said, the risk of introduction of infectious animal diseases is therefore fortunately very small. Mr. Graus asked "
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u70	President:
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u71	Wait a moment, Mr Graus, because the Secretary of State was just about to start answering your questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u72	But they are on another subject, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u73	Okay. Mr Graus wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u74	I am very grateful that the Secretary of State confirms this, including Mrs Lodder's. After all, the people who listen to all this at home often get involved. I'm very glad the Secretary of State is right. Thanks!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u75	If Mr Graus is very pleased with something I have said, who am I to change it? That's always nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u76	Yeah, that's smart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u77	Mr Graus also asked about excessive grafts and whether this plays a role in the spread of animal diseases. The farmer has an important responsibility in preventing animal diseases on his holding. He is, of course, advised by the practicing veterinarian. This can advise him whether vaccination against a particular animal disease makes sense or not. That's what the vet does, if it's okay, based on scientific insights. The protection of animals on the holding is particularly important. Mr Graus also asked how areas are locked off in the event of an outbreak of animal diseases. For example, we have experienced this for a long time this spring in the last outbreak of avian influenza. Transport restrictions are then introduced, which are maintained by NVWA. More extensive measures, such as a standstill, can be scaled up and the police can also be deployed. The NVWA agrees to this through the National Operational Coordination Centre. Also when problems with public order are expected, help from the police can be requested. In very extreme situations, if I am not mistaken, the last time was the foot-and-mouth crisis in 2001. Such a request is made through the NCC. But that is only if the situation is so serious that an area really needs to be locked down. In most outbreaks of animal diseases, such as those we have experienced in the last six months, enforcement by the NVWA of the transport restriction is sufficient. Following this law, Mr Geurts asked a number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u78	Finally, about the grafting. I also know that there are grafts that are actually active, but there are also a lot of grafts that have a lot of side effects and a lot of disadvantages. There are also alternatives to this. I have said before: go ahead and work preventively by using pre- and probiotics. It's already happening in some places. I would have liked to have had a reaction from the Secretary of State. How can we limit excessive grafting? That's how you have to graft some little pets every year. How and where can we reduce the grafts or at least replace them by preventive work with pre- and probiotics, in order to strengthen the immune system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u79	I'm not sure this is a political discussion. This sounds more like a discussion for veterinarians or scientists in this area, who look at what are the most effective methods of preventing the spread of animal diseases. The same applies to ourselves: we are also vaccinated. At least most of us choose to have themselves and their children vaccinated against a certain number of diseases. The same goes for animals, of course. Sometimes it is highly preferable to vaccinate animals because they can prevent the outbreak of certain animal diseases, or that much more annoying measures should be taken at the time of an outbreak. So I do not think what is preferable is a political discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u80	In the Netherlands, the chances of an animal developing a disease against which they are grafted are relatively low. Thus, while the probability is relatively low, they are over-exploited. If the animals develop some diseases, they can often also be curatively treated. My question is whether we should not even do something about the preventative excessive grafting, especially in view of the theory I have suggested that it often interferes with the immune system of animals. I think that if you're going to work with soil-based organisms they're already far beyond us in certain countries, you can also strengthen the immune system of animals, so they're less likely to develop a disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u81	I'm sticking to what I just said. This is more a discussion among experts and scientists than it is now asking for a political policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u82	Following that, I would almost like to ask the Secretary of State how many animal species, animal categories, are actually grafted in preventively when we are talking about infectious animal diseases. It may even be a trick question, but I do not think that is happening in pig farming and perhaps in poultry farming in the case of one disease. So what are we talking about? We should not pretend that there is a lot of preventive grafting. That's not what this is about. I want to correct that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u83	This is what you have done. I suggest the Secretary of State move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u84	I think that's for the best, Mr. Chairman. The image has been corrected by Mrs. Lodders. As a result of the legislative proposal, Mr Geurts said: how does the outgoing cabinet look at the abolition of product markets and their consequences? This is, of course, a recurring point from Mr Geurts. He does not fail to stress that he did not agree. At the same time, the removal of product shelves for the cabinet is now a fact. A decision has been taken, both by the cabinet and subsequently by the parliament. That is also the framework for me. We are looking at how to design a number of things that are desirable or necessary for them to be carried out without product boards. This bill is one example of that. We also have occasional discussions about how we can ensure that private contributions to research, which is in the interests of the whole sector, are also made by everyone, for example through the railroad of making it universally binding. That's a little off the record. If Mr Geurts thinks it would be better to organise it in a different way, I have the impression that he has plenty of opportunities to put his mark on it in the direction of a next cabinet. In the case of animal health levies, it is important that it is now done by the public authorities themselves and that levy and recovery are therefore carried out by public law. The existing laws already provide the basis for this. The legislative proposal we are discussing now provides for an improvement in the instruments. Mr Geurts asked about the handling of objections against the charges imposed in 2015. They concerned a levy imposed on the animals present, while a levy on the set-up of animals had already been paid to the product body. A compensation scheme has been established for livestock farmers who paid a levy in 2014 on the production of animals that they still had in 2015. Those holders were compensated for that period when imposing the definitive levies for 2015. This arrangement has been implemented and the problems have been solved. The objections received in 2015 have thus all been dealt with. He also asked about the possibility of compensating poultry farmers with free-range animals because of the bird flu outbreak of the past six months. He referred to funds available in Brussels. Commissioner Hogan pointed this out. This is a national compensation scheme for which Brussels can provide 50% co-financing. So far we have agreed in the Netherlands as follows. We have the Animal Health Fund. This is primarily in order to pay the direct costs for the control and prevention of designated infectious animal diseases. Consequences damage is not paid, only in exceptional cases. Consequences damage is also excluded as expenditure items in the covenant agreed with the sector organisations. For the exception to pay for consequential damage, the line has so far always been that it only happens if there is disproportionate damage to certain affected persons compared to others and if the damage is so high that it cannot be considered as a regular business risk. It seems to me that it is very important to hold on to that. The abandonment of that principle would create a significant precedent in the sense that all sub-sectors and entrepreneurs who have suffered damage in a crisis could be eligible for compensation. The outbreak of animal diseases always causes damage to many entrepreneurs. This would also result in a high, very high national compensation amount. If you turn that over through the DGF to all holders, who have to pay for it, it would be a high sector-wide charge to collect the national part of the compensation scheme. That is why I have said to the poultry sector that I would only be prepared to use European funds if the sector itself can come up with a financial and economic justification that shows that the damage suffered by the free-range operators has been disproportionately high and cannot be included in the normal business risk. I have not yet received that support, but it is necessary to consider a national compensation for loss compensation for free-range holders and, therefore, a call on European funds. As long as that basis is not there, I see no reason to accept the request to claim European co-financing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u85	I'm just trying to figure out exactly what the Secretary of State said. It is quite translated as follows: we have the DGF, the Animal Health Fund in the Netherlands, but you can only draw on this if you can prove disproportionate damage. At the heart of the matter, however, is that in Brussels money is available for the Netherlands and that this does not cost the Dutch government any money; only the business community has to recoup the other 50%. If the business community is simply willing to make up for the other 50%, which then comes out of the DGF, then what is the problem for the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u86	First of all... Whether the money is in the Netherlands or in Europe, it is and remains taxpayers' money, so public money. You should always have a good reason to claim public money anyway. Taxpayers pay for that. In the Netherlands, we always use the line that we only compensate for consequential damage if it is disproportionately high, so high that it is outside the ordinary business risk. If you step away from that and say: 'there is European taxpayers' money and we do not feel that much of it ourselves, so that is comfortable', you are using a very different policy line. From that moment on, it will have to be handled with every outbreak of animal disease. Second. Mr Geurts says that the business community itself is willing to pay. This would mean that all companies in the affected sector would be willing to pay a contribution out of solidarity for those companies that have been disproportionately affected by this outbreak. At the moment when sector organisations in the poultry sector can provide evidence that there is disproportionate damage, so high that it is outside the normal business risk, I am prepared to look into that. I already told you. I'm sure that support will have to be there first. Moreover, this national contribution must be paid. There must therefore be solidarity within the sector so that the contribution is paid and that this European co-financing scheme can be used. These two conditions are, as far as I'm concerned. If this is met, I am prepared to look at it, but there is no such justification yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u87	Of course, we have to deal with tax resources wherever they come from. However, I am concerned that other European countries will be using this money, while the Netherlands is failing to do so again. When we talk about the Reverend and the merchant, I'm a merchant at this point and I think, "Hey, we're not gonna let that happen, are we? I'll come back to that at another time. I can see from the answer given by the Secretary of State that he is afraid of precedent. But this is a one-time arrangement, the Hogan scheme. What is the precedent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u88	It is not a one-off scheme, because Brussels often has these kinds of budgets at its disposal for such outbreaks. But it is a question of when we are willing to compensate for damage at national level. We do this when there is disproportionate damage to certain companies compared to other companies. Furthermore, it must be a damage so high that it does not fall within the normal business risk. I assume that Mr Geurts agrees with me that only in those situations, with tax money, no matter where it is collected, can you compensate for damage. Here too, there are two sources: one is European money, the other is money to be raised by the sector itself. There must therefore be genuine solidarity in the sector, because otherwise we will impose this solidarity from the government to raise money to pay out to other poultry farmers. Before you can take that step, it is good to be able to justify that there is actually disproportionate damage. I would also like to see solidarity actually exist. Otherwise, you'll face another consideration. If sectorwide there is a willingness to spend money together to help those most affected by compensation, that is something else than when it is said: we are not prepared to spend that money on a sector-wide basis, because then the government should impose it from above. That seems many times more complicated to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u89	Please continue. How far along are you, by the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u90	I'm almost done. Mr Geurts asked me a question which he asked me last week, namely what I am doing to promote the acceptance of meat from vaccinated animals. I refer briefly to my reply last week. Mr Grashoff asked me to respond to a report I do not know. It's always a little complicated. It was a report on innovation in green clusters, namely the relationship with natural behaviour in animals. If Mr Grashoff can send me that report, I can give him a reply. Mr Graus once again asked about the task holders animal welfare, a responsibility of the Minister of V and J. At the end of the day, 180 of these task holders will be trained. The National Inspection Service also uses sixteen inspectors to deal with animal abuse. She's getting reports from the police and 144. They are 80% financed by EZ. The NVVW also pursues animal abuse. Then it's specifically farm animals. There is therefore a substantial commitment to animal cruelty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u91	I can tell the Secretary of State that the animal police are almost over 200 years old, and that they are getting up there this year. We once asked for 500, which everyone wondered why there had to be so many. Partly because of these kinds of things, including to control horse transports, slaughterhouses, zoos, nooses in dunes, forests and fields. It's about the return of the field police. Those 200 men out there today, they can't handle the 144 reports. Those people are all gonna go to hell. They can't handle the number of reports, and the number of animal executioners is growing. We also let in many of those sick idiots, who have a very different picture of animal welfare than we do in the Netherlands. Please do something about it, Secretary of State. I have a final question for the Secretary of State. I was indeed talking about where we might be able to reduce grafts. The Secretary of State may be able to take that up with his team. I don't have the people for that. Mr Geurts was right to say that there is not much going on against infectious animal diseases. He's just got a point there. My question is precisely whether there are no other solutions because of that excess grafting and disrupting the immune system, with all the side effects of grafting. This may also make animals more susceptible to infectious animal diseases. That was my whole point today. I hear Mrs Lodder sighing behind me, but this is a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u92	She can sigh!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u93	Yes, she may sigh, but she is still alive. If the Chamber supports me on this point, I would like to organise a round table to discuss how we can reduce grafts and replace them with pre- and probiotics and phytotherapeutics where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u94	The Chamber is free to organise a hearing. To give Mr Graus an impression, for example in the outbreak of avian influenza, I would like to see grafts possible. Only you always have to deal with new variants to which such a virus adapts, which was not possible here. If we had been able to vaccinate, we would have been able to prevent the many slaughters that we unfortunately had to carry out. In those cases where it is possible, there is often something to say for vaccination, such as the Q fever we have spoken about before. The fact that vaccination can now be carried out is extremely pleasant for everyone. There are many nuances here. Perhaps it would be wise for Mr Graus to organise a hearing. Then the Chamber can exchange views with experts on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u95	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u96	The use of pre- and probiotics and phytotherapeutics may prevent animals from being susceptible to infectious animal diseases. That's all I care about. So this is prevention rather than preventive grafting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u97	Over the past few years, we have had a number of exchanges with each other in order to provide support from the department for the use of, but also for communication on, pre- and probiotics. I come now to the amendments and to the questions that have been put in line with them, starting with the amendment on item No. 10 by Mrs Lodders and Mr Geurts, deleting the tax base for operations other than the keeping of animals. However, eggs for hatching and for the production of vaccine hatching eggs have been levied for a long time. That is necessary, because those parts of the poultry sector pose a risk of outbreaks of diseases. So it is also in the interests of the relevant entrepreneurs that preventive and control measures are taken. It wouldn't be reasonable not to let them pay. This is now done through the levies on the keeping of day-old chicks, which are calculated on the basis of the number of hatching eggs. The bill continues this tax on its own, transparent basis. The amendment also deletes the possibility of introducing charges for operations other than the keeping of animals, other than those I have just mentioned. This includes the production, processing, transport or marketing of animal products or, for example, the preparation of feed. Those activities may also contribute to a risk of outbreak of infectious animal diseases. That is not the issue at the moment, but it is desirable that the legislative proposal should provide a basis for lifting, should this prove necessary. The AMvB option is a track, so to speak, to be able to move quickly, but the bill provides that such a new basis must always be transposed into legislation. Parliament's involvement is thus secured in the legislative proposal as it stands. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Lodders and Mr Geurts to reconsider their amendment on the basis of this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u98	Thank you for the response to the amendment. It is certainly by no means the intention to deprive existing levies of this possibility. However, that was not entirely clear. Having heard the Secretary of State, let me see what we can do with this. I'll also take a close look at the approval law. I haven't been able to find him, but it's probably mostly me. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u99	Then there is the next amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u100	That is the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Geurts and Mrs Lodders. It states that consultations should be held with associations of interests of natural or legal persons. Mr Futselaar responded. He asked questions about this amendment. He wondered if it was not the intention of this law to set the rates on a rational basis, so that you calculate how high they must be. That's right. At the same time, it is the usual practice to always consult representatives of interest groups when setting such tariffs. Of course, consultation is not the same as consent. It's not like they have to agree to it. We're gonna have a good time together. In fact, I think it is self-evident to do so, and that is why I think it is a sympathetic amendment. There was some discussion. I would be willing to accept the amendment, Mr President. Let me say, I am prepared to accept the amendment. Then I'll see if the Chamber is okay with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u101	I'll look around to see if anyone has any objections. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u102	Then I come to the amendment to item No. 12. That is a little more complicated, because Mr Grashoff proposes in that amendment that compensation should actually be financed from the Animal Health Fund for victims of the outbreak of zoonoses. Let me first say that the Animal Health Fund and the animal health levy are not intended to finance this type of damage. They are intended for damage caused by public measures aimed at combating infectious animal diseases and zoonoses. That is not the case in this case. It is not damage caused by government measures. It is therefore in fact an improper use of the Animal Health Fund. If there were any damage caused by State measures, the State would simply be liable to damages. It already is. Then the government will have to pay for the damage anyway. If there is no obligation to pay damages to the public authorities, this is a non-compulsory concession. This is a voluntary concession that the government finances. Then it is not appropriate to transfer them automatically to all companies in a particular sector. In specific cases, it can always be discussed whether it is appropriate to ask the business community to co-finance part of such a concession, but I do not think that there can be any automation. For these reasons, I must advise against the amendment. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u103	Thank you. Then we'll go to the second term. Does everyone need it? Mrs. Lodders does. I call Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u104	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. Even if this is a technical legislative proposal, we have been able to discuss it in a fairly simple way. In my view, it should also be possible for those who are a little bit further away from this, because it is, of course, still important that we be able to work effectively both in the field of prevention and in the fight against animal diseases. I have already said in an interruption that I will come back to the amendment. I will look into this together with Mr Geurts and look further at what the Secretary of State has said. In his reply, the Secretary of State stated that he wanted to move towards greater transparency in the accountability of the costs incurred during a crisis, i.e. in the fight against animal disease. Nevertheless, I have tabled a motion which I should like to state where the emphasis should be. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that expenditure from the Animal Health Fund to address infectious animal diseases (logistics, clearing, aftercare) is not transparent;]] [[noting that it is not clear whether resources are being used efficiently and effectively;]] [[calls on the Government, in the fight against infectious animal disease, to make it clear what expenditure has been incurred on the various elements in the process of handling and disposal and logistics in the event of an outbreak and control of infectious animal diseases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders, Mr Geurts and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34570-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u105	Mr. Chairman. I can make it quick. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. For the moment, I take note of the answer given by the Secretary of State to my question on ceilings and risk reserves and the like. I assume that there are sound calculations on the basis of which we do not have to solve the sector's problems with public taxpayers' money. I will maintain my amendment on the Animal Health Fund. It is a matter of principle to me: a sector which is clearly responsible for people's health in a way that is apparently desired, namely by dealing with animals so intensively and so far in this densely populated country. I really think that we should draw a line here and make it clear that these risks must also be borne by the sector to a large extent. This is true once again because, precisely in this situation of victims of animal diseases, of zoonoses, it is almost impossible to trace who is the actual cause. That's not an individual company. This affects all kinds of routes for liability. Also the liability of the government cannot be demonstrated one-on-one; we have also noticed this with the Q fever. There's still a lawsuit going on, but the judge's rulings weren't positive at first. On the other hand, it is crystal clear that you cannot leave people to their fate in this way. It is therefore a matter of principle for me, and that is why I am maintaining the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u106	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the Lodders c.s. motion. in piece No. 13 in which the government is invited to make the expenditure incurred in the process of handling and disposal and logistics in the event of an outbreak and control of infectious animal diseases transparent. I already promised I'd come back to that in a letter. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. Mr Grashoff has not so much asked a question as he has made a speech. Let me be clear: I fully understand his argument. I understand that he says that there are situations in which the government has no liability for damages and there are also no companies that can be held liable because, for example, they have been negligent as a result of which people have been infected with zoonoses. People may have suffered damage, but they cannot hold anyone responsible for that damage. In fact, there is a reference to that situation. I can imagine that, in such a situation, the government would opt for compulsory compensation. I can also imagine that, together with the business community, we are looking at collective compensation for damage. This is something other than to record this in the DGF, which is not intended for that purpose, but really to compensate for damage suffered by companies by public intervention. Mr Grashoff's objective does not fit in with the DGF. This is not appropriate either because this is almost always a voluntary concession and there should be specific agreements on who contributes to the costs. I have said this as an argument for my consideration of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u108	And that raises another question from Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u109	This may be the last question in plenary for me today. This is what I'm talking about. If this amendment is adopted, entrepreneurs can object and win. That is another reason, an additional argument that I am going to pass on to Mr Grashoff. Is that what he means?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u110	Let me put it this way: indeed, this does not make the law stronger legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u111	The amendment I tabled does not provide for a one-to-one compensation scheme which is directly applicable. It does provide a hook in the law to do that. Indeed, this broadens the purpose of the law. But that is what we are talking about, so we are also talking about the purpose of the law; in that sense this is a circular reasoning. The amendment says that such a scheme can be introduced by General Measure of Management. This means that the Secretary of State will be given the opportunity to discuss this with the business community, to see to what extent the government can stand up to this and work out a regulation which, let me put it this way, is adequate, modest and can serve the main objectives. So I think there's plenty of flexibility in it. As a result, I believe that the legal risk which Mr Geurts pointed out is not present at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u112	It is appropriate to make a nuanced remark. The point is that, on the basis of the amendment, companies could be obliged to pay a contribution for non-compulsory compensation. That does indeed pose a legal risk. I do not dare to say at the moment how big that is, but if I have any further insights on this point, I will send it to the Chamber in writing and before the vote. But this presents a legal risk. The obligations now contained in the law are legally all very justifiable for the purpose, but if people are obliged to contribute and to contribute to an unobligatory concession, then so I say with the caution that suits me now, in any case, debatable or something like that will stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u113	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-14-tweedekamer-5.u114	We will vote next Tuesday on the revision, on the amendments and on one motion. One motion, that's very unique.
