ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u1	We shall continue with the debate on the General Financial Reviews. I give the floor to Mr Sneller of D66 on behalf of D66. For Mr Sneller, this is the first time he has spoken in plenary. So this is his maiden speech. For those of you who don't know, I say he shouldn't be interrupted right now. I see Mr Azarkan watching; he seems to be disappointed. However, it is customary not to interrupt now. I call Mr Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr Van Weyenberg is coming. The floor is yours now, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Madam President. After sitting on the employees' benches for almost ten years earlier, behind the balustrade, I find it a great honour to be able to enter the arena for it and to sit behind this cathedral for the first time today. For the Minister and the Secretary of State, too, this is their first real performance in this Chamber and I wish them every success. I look forward to constructive cooperation with both regiments, in their role as strict but just treasurers. For my group, it has just been said that, in line with budgetary rules, we have separated revenue and expenditure. Mr Van Weyenberg will be discussing this last point in a moment. Before I look forward, I'd like to compliment you first. During the past cabinet period difficult measures and reforms have been taken in economically difficult times. They weren't always popular, as we know. We are now taking advantage of this, because it is partly because of this that our public finances are in order. As a result, the Netherlands now has a good starting position. As far as I am concerned, this has been a major achievement. This good starting position offers the new cabinet room to invest in society, including a lot of money in education, care and defence. There is room for relief, in particular through income tax. But even now, politics is always a matter of choice. Because the resources remain scarce and there are always plenty of wishes. In the coming period my line will be the same as when I was spokesperson Finance and chairman of the Accounting Committee in the city council of The Hague, 500 metres away. Firstly, careful compliance with the agreed budgetary rules. Secondly, extra attention to the long-term sustainability of public finances. Thirdly: transparent, effective and efficient public expenditure Mr. Chairman. First of all, I come to the financial rules. The Minister of Finance referred to the need for calm, cleanliness and regularity, and the words of Florence Nightingale were already mentioned in the budgetary policy. In this respect, confidence is building up that we are returning to a trendary fiscal policy and that the government agreement is aiming at a surplus of about 0.5% of GDP. I think that is a sensible choice, given the lessons from the recent past. This also follows the opinion of the Study Group on Budgetary Room. This will prevent us from rushing into the guardrails in the face of a disappointing economy, stepping on the brakes and having to make additional cuts. I count on this minister as an ally in the enforcement of those rules. An additional argument for heading for a budget surplus is that public finances must also remain sound in the long term, so that we do not shift priceless accounts to future generations. In the minister's political tradition, this is called stewardship. As a social-liberal, I prefer to talk about future surveillance, but I think that means the same thing. I therefore ask the Minister to pay explicit attention to the long-term sustainability of public finances. I would therefore like to receive a response to the comments made by the Council of State. In this context, I would specifically mention the growth of healthcare expenditure. Mr Omtzigt has done this before. During this cabinet period, there is a large amount of extra money going to the care department on balance. In 2021, at the end of this cabinet period, the annual budget will be as much as 8 billion higher than in 2017, i.e., by comparison: the growth of healthcare costs is the same as the total budget for the armed forces. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we need to look closely at the cost development of care. I support the commitment to major agreements, building on the agreements concluded under the previous cabinet. But here is a challenge that goes beyond just this cabinet period. How can we ensure that future generations can also benefit from personal, accessible, high-quality care, without this leading to the displacement of important investments, such as those in education and sustainability? Does the Minister share this concern? Is he willing to work with his colleagues from Health? Mr. Chairman. Because of the importance D66 attaches to future-proof policies, I am also very proud of the investment in teaching for teacher salaries, reducing the workload, early and early school education and technical VMBO and investment in education and innovation. Not only in education but also in other areas, a lot of extra money will be made available, for example for the armed forces, but also for nursing homes, so that our older people get the care they deserve. The cabinet rightly has great ambitions in these and other areas, but this brings me to the third point of attention for this minister. After all, we want the money to end up where it is intended and where it is actually spent. This means that we must prevent plans being postponed or postponed and money being left on the shelf unnecessarily, but at the same time we must ensure that the money is spent in order to spend it or speed up the pace, because it must not, of course, lead to inefficient spending. Finding the right balance between tempo and effectiveness requires the skill of the trade ministers, but certainly also of the Minister of Finance. I'd like to hear from him how he sees his own role in that. Mr. Chairman. One of the organisations that keep both Cabinet and Chamber sharp when it comes to care and efficiency is the General Court. The same Court of Auditors was called upon some time ago about the capacity it has to do its job properly. Under the predecessor of this minister, an inventory of the tasks and resources has already begun and there has also been consultation with the Court of Auditors, I understand. My question is when will the outcome be shared and whether the Minister will perhaps be able to shed some light on this tomorrow. Moreover, the quality of implementation is important for the effectiveness of policies. That may sound self-evident, but it is not for nothing that informant Tjeenk Willink has presented an annex to his final report in which he asked both the Chamber and the new cabinet to pay attention to this execution. I am therefore also pleased that we can invest extra in capacity for the UWV so that job seekers get personal guidance, and that we invest in the Dutch Food and Service Authority, the Tax Office and the Labour Inspectorate, because without these implementing organisations, political ambitions remain fine words, but they do not become reality. That is why I think it is important that we carry out good implementation tests in new policies, so that we know if they can also implement these plans. I call on this Minister to play an explicit role in this and ask him if he is willing to pay explicit attention to the implementation of accountability. Is he willing to do that? Then the municipalities and the provinces. Little has been said about it, but they will also receive substantial extra money in the years to come. My group has high expectations of their efforts, whether it be a stronger social safety net, nature, sustainability, energy saving, mobility or school buildings. The cabinet is going to agree on this with the co-governments, and of course there is also a financial component to this. My question to the Minister for Finance is how he sees this process and what his commitment is to it. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the importance of prudent budgetary policies does not apply only to the Netherlands and this Parliament. Within Europe, we are closely interwoven. That is why I call on the Minister to promote stability there too. I specifically ask him to draw attention within the euro area to compliance with the common budgetary rules by all countries and to continue to insist on independent supervision of this. D66 also wants us to complete the banking union and quickly achieve a capital market union, but the necessary steps still need to be taken to strengthen supervision of banks and to decouple bank balances and government debt. After all, less intertwinedness within a country makes the whole Union less vulnerable. And when the sun shines, we have to fix the roof. I expect a European commitment from this Minister. I saw that his debut in Brussels tasted more like this week. I even read this morning that he had to dine three times with his colleagues. At that time I thought: I hope it was not at the expense of that peace, cleanliness and regularity. But I think that worked out. Mr President, I will conclude. In the coming period, I am counting on this minister as an ally in terms of compliance with budgetary rules and I will be particularly interested in the future stability of our public finances and the transparent, effective and efficient use of taxpayers' money. In the meantime, both directors also have their first days on it. My final question would be: what priorities have they set for themselves for the coming years and what accents do they want to put? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u5	Thank you very much, Mr Sneller. Congratulations on your lovely maiden speech. I will suspend congratulations from colleagues after congratulating myself first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u6	Let's move on to the debate. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is customary for the next speaker to congratulate the previous speaker on his maiden speech. You will understand that I find it an extra great pleasure that I can do so now with a fellow party member and even roommate, so: Joost, congratulations very much. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we talked to the Secretary of State about the Tax Plan. Today he too sits here in the plenary. Like all colleagues before me, I wish both the Secretary of State and the Minister every success, enjoyment of dinner and, in view of the European agenda, a healthy diet in the coming years. We have seen that the government's ambitions for taxation are great, and rightly so. The cabinet wants to be there for companies that create jobs, companies that really contribute to the Dutch economy. In order to keep the Netherlands attractive as a place of business, the rate of corporation tax falls and the dividend tax is abolished. At the same time, tax structures are being tackled and we are going to tax pollution much more. On balance, companies are going to pay a little more, and if you include the basic path, a little more. Instead of on mailbox companies, we are focusing on companies that are real for society and not on their mailbox. But I am asking the cabinet today to speed up the fight against tax avoidance. I was pleased with the ambitious letter we received from the Secretary of State this morning, among other things, on the screening of the ruling practice. So I expect us to introduce the withholding tax quickly on outgoing interest, royalties and dividends to low-tax countries, countries that levy very little tax, so that no longer Bermuda, but Germany is among the top three countries from which the Netherlands imports services. I also expect that we will soon tighten the rules for the trust sector and give De Nederlandsche Bank more tools as a supervisor. Why is it taking so long for that law to come? It was announced years ago by the previous cabinet. Where's the law? I also look forward to a quick receipt of the business case to increase the tax authorities' ability to track tax evaders. In doing so, we are implementing an important recommendation from the parliamentary interrogation to the Panama Papers. We already received a letter of amendment to the Tax Plan, which contains an adaptation of the Innovation Box. This one's limited. But there's more in the barrel. Can the Secretary of State also tell us tomorrow exactly when we can look at the other measures in the government's anti-tax avoidance agreement? If he can't say exactly, can he tell us when we know what the exact timeline is? Indeed, we need an ambitious overall plan to ensure that we are there for real companies that create jobs and innovation here and that it becomes less attractive for the flow of all financial flows. Income tax also changes a lot. There will be a two-disk fare, or at least a two-rate system...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u8	Finish your sentence first, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u9	I bet Mr Nijboer is going to ask me a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u10	Yes, but you were right in the middle of a sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u11	Yeah, but I'll start over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u12	Oh. Then Mr. Nijboer may intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u13	I'm paying attention. We're getting into income tax now. We just dealt with corporate taxes, and that's what I'm asking. D66, Mr Van Weyenberg's party, did not include the abolition of the dividend tax in the electoral programme either. I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg how that actually came about in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u14	Look, I wasn't in that room either. The essence is that, as far as I am concerned, we have put in a balanced overall package. I'm defending that, and I'm defending it with conviction. We are tackling tax avoidance, but we are also taking measures such as the dividend tax. I never find it so strong as a coalition to start a game of "it wasn't me, it wasn't me." I'm just standing here for the whole package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u15	Whether that is strong or not, I do not think it is so strong that no party had this in the electoral programme. Moreover, most parties did not have the VAT increase in it either, and that it is being introduced. I don't think that's so strong. D66 Democrats 66! It is a party that loves and parties also always asks for credit transfers and clear choices in advance; show what you want and let people vote clearly. When such a measure of 1.4 billion appears, I find it quite logical to ask where it comes from. You can also increase teacher's salaries, education of pay or nurses of pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u16	If we want to know exactly where that came from, then we all have to play a game of Cluedo here to find out who did what in which room with which instrument. I am simply standing in front of the overall package, and I think that the overall package is very explanatory, because it really makes it more attractive for companies that create jobs here to invest in the Netherlands. It also makes it easier for investors to find our Dutch companies. That's what I stand for. At the same time, it is a very ambitious package when it comes to combating tax structures, all of which I know you are in favour of. I'm standing in front of that whole package today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u17	The total package receives zero point zero on employment from the Central Planning Bureau. That is the result of the overall package of this coalition. I ask you about the 1.4 billion for the dividend tax. There is no scientist to be found who says that this contributes to employment. The Central Planning Bureau, whose judgment D66 is always strong, also says that there is no empirical support for it. Your colleague just had a very nice speech about effective government policy and efficient use. I would like to know whether this money could not have been spent much better on employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u18	Again, this is a total package. The Central Planning Bureau says we cannot assess what that does. That's true. I see the world around us is changing. I therefore consider it justified, on balance, to include this measure in the overall package of measures we take as a cabinet. Let's talk about employment. I think that's a very strange accusation. What happened? Let's do it very precisely. There was indeed a reduction in the burden for the future in the books. It brings this cabinet forward so that people don't have to wait until 2040. On balance, this measure does not lead to jobs. Why not? Because in the basic path that your cabinet handed over, the money only went to the second, third and fourth disks. This cabinet has said: no, we are also spending part of the tax rebate. In other words, you now blame me for using the money in the books to improve people on low incomes and benefits. If I'd been on the models, I wouldn't have. I would have been structurally pumped into employment. We don't. We'll make sure everyone benefits from it. As you can see, the package of the coalition agreement improves all the groups. I note, moreover, that the plan for structural employment, which the three parties have passed on, has reduced 70 000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Azarkan. Or Mr. Snel?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Snel was before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u21	Sorry, Mr. Snel was early. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u22	My name is Snels. Mr. Snel is in Box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u23	Quickly. We have Fast, Faster and Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u24	Without t! The enthusiasm of Mr Van Weyenberg surprises me a little. We know from the Christian Union that she sees this dividend tax as a melon she had to swallow. We know from Mr Omtzig that he has a certain openness in his attitude. We're gonna organise a hearing, we're gonna look at arguments. We know about the VVD... Well, not so much, actually. He didn't have that many arguments. And you're standing here defending it with fire. Is there no further opening for you to reconsider the abolition of the dividend tax in connection with the treatment and the hearing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u25	With all due respect, this is a bit of a rehearsal trick for the viewer at home. I told you I'm standing in front of the package. That makes sense to me too: if you agree with the four of us, you should stand for it. That's what you're going to do with all kinds of qualifications. You've studied well, but I don't think that's very strong. Let's go to the content. I stand for that package as a whole. That's what I said. I also supported the hearing. I think that's very interesting. That's what we're gonna do. Taboos I don't have. I like to talk to everyone. But it would be nice if you didn't try to twist my words for your own movies too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u26	Movies? I don't think I'm making it. I actually thought that the abolition of the dividend tax was coming to Cluedo playing from the VVD. Now I happen to know that D66 is the only political party that has a division in New York. Maybe it's from you after all. Finally, may I ask the following question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u27	This is what I meant, Mr. Chairman. These are the games.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u28	Yeah, you're playing games. It wasn't in any election program. No argument has yet been put forward as to why this is necessarily necessary. That's what makes society disgusted. That is why the entire opposition is displeased with this measure and we keep asking you why it is necessary, who it is from and which lobby is behind it. And we can't get a clear answer to that. But my question is: is there any discussion with you about reconsidering this measure if it turns out that there are no good arguments and that there are better spending on the 1.4 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u29	It's a bit of a game, because you're trying to frame me for the measure, while I'm just saying, if you're meeting with four parties, I don't think it's so strong to go here and yell "it wasn't me, it wasn't me." I think you were right to say that it was not in my election programme. If you want to talk, the door is always open with us. But you cannot be surprised that we do not say in this debate that we are throwing the agreements we have made over the fence. I look forward to that, too. But I stand for the agreements we've made in total. I think that's what a coalition should do. Once again, this measure was not included in my programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr. Weyenburg, I didn't understand either. You're actually saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u31	Van Weyenberg
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u32	Weyenberg. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u33	Ván Weyenberg!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yeah, Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u35	This was really wrong twice!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u36	Forgive me! Mr Van Weyenberg actually says with some bravado: I am standing here in front of the overall package. As individual Members of Parliament, we are asking a question about parts of that package. Mr Van Weyenberg, do you say that I am not answering? Or do you say that I can go into the individual measures contained in the coalition agreement that have been worked out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u37	You have a fair question, but the question was actually which part of the package I am most excited about. You have heard a great deal of enthusiasm from me for tackling tax avoidance and all the measures to do so. Then there's a whole package. The underlying objective of the package is to make it more attractive for companies that really invest here. I think we share certain concerns, whether or not you think that abolishing the dividend tax is a good measure. We'll see what happens to the Brexit. We have seen how recently Akzo's foreign activist shareholders see if they can make money by buying up companies in the Netherlands and perhaps reselling them quickly. I know we share those concerns. In the overall package that is now before us, I think this measure can be defended. And I'm standing in front of the whole package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u38	I actually hear you use the following argument: this improves the locational environment in the Netherlands and will not allow companies to go to London.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u39	The dividend tax is not today's or yesterday's issue. This has been discussed for a long time. Mr Omtzigt already referred to hearings in 2008 which provided a number of arguments showing that it is relevant for the location factor and in particular for investing in the Netherlands. We are talking about companies where people work, companies that we want to keep in the Netherlands and where we even want more of them. Mr Nijboer is quite right when he talks about empirical evidence. There's a very theoretical debate going on in economist country. Eventually there is a total package, where you also make a risk assessment. Then the question is, what do I do? I'm open to talking about everything. I look forward to the hearing with great interest, as do you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u40	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u41	I conclude that there is little empirical evidence. That's just been reported. I am also of rational proof that it is the right choice. So I don't understand. Why make a choice if we can't justify it rationally? We do that with a lot of elements. I can only conclude that you were still lit by the CDA and the Christian Union. You believe in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u42	I can't follow this one anymore. I believe that I have indicated that I support the objective of the overall package and that I weigh the total package. Mr Azarkan does not blame me for saying that two weeks after presenting the coalition agreement, on balance, what we agreed on there. I, my group and, by the way, all the other members of the coalition have signed up to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u43	There is a total package in which the VAT on ordinary groceries and for example on train tickets goes up, people are dependent on trains, but it all goes up and in which top incomes are no longer limited, because we just do that nicely in the trash. The bonuses can flow richly again in the banking world. We know they're doing that again. And the dividend tax will be abolished. You gotta get excited about it! But that is why Mr Van Weyenberg is in a party other than mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u44	That was the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u45	Then I'll respond right away...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u46	No, Mr. Chairman, that wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u47	Then perhaps you should ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yes. Can Mr Van Weyenberg state whether, as far as he is concerned, the abolition of dividend taxation, which does nothing for employment and what is a present for business, can also be used for other matters which will also make D66 more important?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u49	I think this is a different wording of a question that has been asked to me before. There is a total package here. Then I can also say here: I find this more interesting than that. This applies to all kinds of subjects. There's this. I have already indicated that I am always open to conversations, but you can't blame me for standing for this on balance. I'll return to your intro. By the way, that's also a nice little debate trick: first keep a long intro, which doesn't come up with a reply, and then ask a completely different question. That's the Wilderstruc.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u50	I'm right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u51	Something is being found about bank bonuses, which some parties want to get rid of. But those rules for bank bonuses remain as strict as they already were. I am extremely proud of that. Companies are going to pay more on balance. I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u52	Businesses are compensated for the energy bill they are going to have to pay because we have to comply with the climate agreement, while citizens are not being compensated. Citizens pay the highest energy bill. If you really say you're going to compensate everyone for the cost of the climate agreement, you should start there. So it is certainly not consistent. You voted in favour of a motion to allow those bonuses to be returned to the banks. Yes! This cabinet throws the further norming through the Law norming top incomes into the trash. Yes! They all do. You might like that package. That is why Mr Van Weyenberg is with D66 and I am not. That's very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u53	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u54	My question is: is there room, if money is needed, to get that at the dividend tax? I ask that question because we now see that, now that there is finally a D66 minister on education, it is about the first measure that she has to take to cut down 46 million in education, while the teachers announce strikes. And I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg: wouldn't we even solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u56	Then we do a little less dividend tax and more in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr President, 1.9 billion more goes to education in total. 1.9 billion! And you are right: there is also a search for efficiency. A search for efficiency three times smaller than your own election program. I think I have the guts to book myself 300 million for efficiency, while we do 100, and then scream. You really have to count as an SP'er to make sense of that. But I'm gonna have to go back now. Why did we vote against this motion against the bank bonuses? Because we were forming. Now we're done and what does it say? The stricter rules simply remain in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u58	Last time at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mr President, there is an enormous amount of bureaucracy to be saved in education, and we are presenting this 300 million with a plan for how this can be done. This minister says: yes, okay, I have something to do with 46 million and I divide it a little bit about education; then they see how they fill it out. Then I'll know where that cut ends up: in the classroom. Then it lands there, because every cut I've seen in the past on bureaucracy eventually led to more bureaucracy. We can fix it, too. We can also say to your minister: well, we do not give it to large companies, but we do not cut back on education. Except there's obviously no room for that at D66, and that's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u60	I note that Mrs Leijten needs about half an input to ask a question, but I am happy to answer the question. Again, there will be 1.9 billion in education. That's what you get for coming here and talking and doing business, not putting yourself out of business in advance and then coming here and saying that you're really sorry. The conclusion is that, in my view, the cabinet also indicates that it would not be at the expense of the primary process. That doesn't mean at the expense of the class. And I'll hold the cabinet to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u61	You made a comment to Mrs Leijten. Would you like to respond to that, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u62	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Weyenberg explains all the time that others are playing games. He's always talking about ways of another MP, but he's doing the same thing! Snare when you know someone's not allowed to interrupt anymore. Then don't do it yourself, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u63	I think I just repeated a simple fact. Before there was even any talk, the SP ruled out just about Jan and alleman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u64	I think the Minister is beginning to see the difference between the First and Second Chambers. We're gonna try that again tomorrow. I like coalition parties who just stand for the whole thing. You agreed to that, so you have to stand for it. At the same time, 1.4 billion is of course a main course in the whole meal and if it sticks like a bone in your throat, then it becomes difficult. We have heard a lot of questions and answers about the process and the overall package, but I would also like to hear from Mr Van Weyenberg the story with which he explains that 1.4 billion was well spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u65	I thank Mr Dijkgraaf for the compliment he gave. I think that's important. I think that is just the way I stand in politics, and I know that Mr Dijkgraaf is too. You make a deal, and then you stand for it. For me, this measure is inextricably linked to the whole, let me say that again. Just because we are doing something about mailboxes, precisely because we will be very strict against the trust sector, precisely because we are going to make a business case against tax avoidance, I think you can say to the other: for real companies, for companies that create jobs here, we are making it more attractive here. That is what we are doing with the Vpb tariff, mostly paid for by broadening the base, but also by taxing pollution. The aim of this measure is, for example, to make it more attractive for companies to retain own funds, which is important to my party. Debt financing is becoming less attractive. I think this measure will do something for that. In practice, as was also apparent in that hearing in 2008, the dividend tax in many investment decisions is in which company do I invest? Where do I settle? It is indeed mentioned as an important factor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u66	Then it is of course important whether this can be sufficiently substantiated. I'm also an empirical economist. I am happy to hold the chair of empirical economics in Rotterdam and I also know that you cannot prove everything in advance. Sometimes you just have to have the guts to say, "I believe in this so I do." Then you must see clear channels. Often we have a very sharp analysis of "it may not have been proven yet, but it is innovative and new, and we see a very clear channel." In this case I see a kind of bed, but the river still misses me a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u67	I see a number of channels on which that can have an impact. I am not an empirical economist but a simple labour market economist. First of all, you can really see that this is a process that is also common in business decisions. There's all the constructions with dividend. It's complicated. Secondly, I would like to make a comparison with the United Kingdom, which does not have this. You can achieve shareholder return by simply coming as an investor, getting into a Dutch company, taking over that and moving to England. Then suddenly it's more valuable. That's the kind of construction I want to avoid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u68	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u69	These are very interesting things, but it would help if there were concrete examples. This may not be necessary now, but it is necessary in the decision-making process. It would be good if there were clear examples showing: hey, yes, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u70	I already know where Mr Dijkgraaf is going to examine the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u71	Is Mr Van Weyenberg aware of the fact that this dividend tax will end up in the treasury of, for example, the United States or another Member State by abolishing it? Did you know that when you first saw that in the coalition agreement or did you think: this is a bonus, a good incentive for investors to seduce them to invest in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u72	It can't be both true. It can't be both a gift for shareholders and for Trump. It's gotta be one of them. It can't be both true at the same time, I can see. What I do understand is that even if you can calculate the weather, companies and, in particular, investors, this still really weighs into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u73	I understand that Mr Van Weyenberg is looking at the package as a whole, but suppose that there is one measure in that package. Let's say that it says that every year we transfer 1.4 billion to the treasury of the United States. That's actually almost that measure. Does Mr Van Weyenberg say as a Member of Parliament and co-responsible for this policy: I look at the package as a whole and I do not like it very much, but it has to be because I like it as a whole? Or does Mr Van Weyenberg, as an individual Member of Parliament, say that I do not agree with this, something else has to be made up about this? Now he's pouring 1.4 billion into other countries' treasuries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u74	In the end, I only judge this on one thing: does it help the investments in Dutch companies that create jobs and innovation? Does it help to make the Netherlands attractive to such companies? Does it help to set up a dam against takeovers by some sort of grasshopper capitalists who, by moving that company, suddenly think they can make a profit and lose those jobs? My only review framework is what it means for the Netherlands. I thought that would be an argument that Mr Van Dijck addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u75	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u76	Of course, but let just all economists in the Netherlands say that that doesn't help. It doesn't help with the jobs, and it doesn't help with the takeovers. All economists in the Netherlands, including the CPB you have so high, say that it only helps the US treasury. If that turns out to be the case, do you agree with me that we should not just give 1.4 billion to other countries' treasuries? Isn't it your responsibility to deal effectively with taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u77	Sure, but that's why I said: I test what it does for the Netherlands. I note from previous hearings and from the international debates on this matter that not everyone is saying that it is wasted money. Money thrown away, I don't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mr Nijboer has a question, but on another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u79	That's right. I didn't think the defense of the dividend tax was very strong. Actually, I found the lick vest, but I'm moving on to another point. I have a question about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u80	This is a trick, then. That can be confirmed by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u81	We're debating here, so it's good to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr President, this is the third or fourth time that Mr Van Weyenberg has accused a colleague of using a trick.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u83	It's a trick, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u84	That's what he's doing for the third or fourth time. We are just having a serious debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u85	You put words in my mouth, Mr Nijboer. I never like that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u86	We are having a serious debate here. We are asking for a substantive basis, and we are not getting it. So we'll hold on and hang on. That's what MPs are for. The only thing Mr Van Weyenberg does is sneer at Mrs Leijten. He says to Mr Snels: it's a trick. And now he's telling me it's a trick again. That's all right, but that's what I'm going to call here. I can have some and I'm fine with it, but I think it's a very weak performance. Mr President, I come to my question on tax avoidance. I hear Mr Dijkgraaf say, "That was also a sneak." That's right, but this sneer was deserved! Mr President, Mr Van Weyenberg has made a very nice speech on tax avoidance. He says this is being handled by the Cabinet. I would like to draw his attention to a motion which he himself has co-signed and supported. It calls for a European minimum corporate tax rate. I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenberg why that is not in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u87	That's not in the coalition agreement because you don't always get everything in negotiations. I still think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u88	That is a clear answer, but I have missed this in the approach to tax avoidance. I come to another motion, which Mr Van Weyenberg has also supported. The motion was tabled by myself, but fortunately Mr Van Weyenberg supported it. It calls on the government to work to avoid a race to the bottom at company rates. Why is D66 in on this now? Why does it want the Netherlands to take the lead in this race down in terms of profit tax rates, when that party is such an opponent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u89	I am still extremely opposed to that. But I'm just denying it's true. Look around us. We now come to the level of the Scandinavian countries, for example. And we pay most of it by broadening the base and, in part, I admit that immediately by taxing pollution more heavily. I think that is extremely justifiable. And again, we do this in combination. This makes the Netherlands attractive for companies that create jobs here and for companies that innovate here. And we become a lot less attractive for the transit of all money through the Zuidas. I think that's a very good balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u90	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u91	Yes, I can only say that we are reducing company tariffs to 3.3 billion by 4 percentage points to 16% and 21%, while the Netherlands was just one of the middle class. I can only observe that if you do that, the Netherlands takes the lead in the race down at the profit tax. We do that with England, which does so, while D66 was always such a fierce opponent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u92	This 16% is for SMEs. I think they are extremely pleased with that. I think they are extremely pleased with that. In the dedain with which Mr Nijboer talks a bit about those kinds of companies, as if they should feel guilty, I am not going along. And I say again that I am very pleased that at the same time we are much wider and much wider than Europe is asking us to reduce interest subsidies, that we are able to limit the Innovation Box, that we are able to limit the expat regime. These are measures which I know Mr Nijboer has advocated in the past, but which in any case never reached the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr Van Weyenberg spoke about points which were not included in the programme but in the agreement. Can he explain to me why the abolition of the Hills Act finally entered the D66 pass-through, unlike the other three parties? The Prime Minister said: yes, I did not come up with it, but it is a bit expensive if we maintain the arrangement. What was the reason for you not to put that in the programme, but ultimately to put it in the accounts with a period of twenty years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u94	That transfer is the financial annex to my coalition agreement. So we have already been extremely transparent before the elections that we thought that was a sensible measure. That is what we were in favour of in the elections, and that is what I stand for after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u95	I could have made that point; what you are saying is absolutely right, and I agree with you. I was also talking about the billing, so it's for the election. That's nicely done. But my question is why you chose it in the end. Was there a hole in the bill that made you think: well, you know what, this is just about the elderly so we cover it and then we add a Band-Aid of those twenty years, but it goes on immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u96	Well, Mr President, first of all, when we look at the elderly, you see that in the coalition agreement we pay a lot of money to ensure that pensioners are also making progress as a group. They stood at 0.2%, which has now become 0.7% a year. I admit straight away, Mr Omtzigt said that even though it is regrettable that it is not possible for older people with a higher pension, and I even think that it is impossible for the public authorities to fully compensate for the problems of pension funds. But we are making a great deal of money available for this: in the old people's discount and in the general tax rebate. That motion that I believe you have tabled as a senator about the very nasty cliff being carried out. Well, congratulations on this. So we are doing a lot for the elderly in the coalition agreement. The second is the Hills Act. By the way, it affects all future recipients of the law. But where they will never be eligible, we have chosen to cut it down in 30 years. Why do I think that's defendable? Two reasons. The first is that you just have to pay off these days. This was meant to encourage people when they did not have to. The second is that it breaks through the automatism that if we do nothing, everyone gets it. We have therefore chosen to reduce this in 30 years. To be honest, I do not remember many measures in which we have chosen such a broad path, precisely in order to respond to your concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u97	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr Wiegel has said this in a very good way: it is clearly such a terrible measure that you must phase for at least 30 years, otherwise he will not be able to sell politically at all. Last week, in De Telegraaf, he said to me, "Room, cancel the fine." Finally, I have the following question to ask Mr Van Weyenberg. When we talk about the people who are now affected by the abolition of law, you are talking about compulsory repayment, which has indeed been there for a few years. But new mortgage investors, starters, won't be dealing with the Hills Act for 30 years, because then their mortgage will be repaid. Here we are talking about almost a million older people, in particular, who are now fined with retroactive effect and without transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u99	People who have repaid or almost repaid their mortgage in five, ten or fifteen years' time shall also be eligible even if this is the case. I would ask Mr Van Rooijen to take a look at the total. We do all kinds of other things that I think far exceed this effect. In my opinion, you must have an extremely expensive home to have, on balance, the disadvantage of all other things in the coalition agreement. I understand that Mr Van Rooijen is not in favour of this, he is extremely consistent, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u100	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u101	If you take something off in 30 years, I think that's a sign that we're taking ample time for that. That is even wider than my programme said, because it was there in 20 years. I think that is something Mr Van Rooijen shows that there is an eye for his concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was talking about income tax, where we go to a two-rate system. All deductions will now be reduced in steps to the rate of the first disc, including the mortgage interest deduction. There is fiscal greening and a shift from labour taxation to more taxation of consumption. In that context, I do have a specific question. In some accounts, I saw that the truck tax, which is also included in the government agreement, will be introduced earlier, namely during this cabinet period. I saw it in the plan of the three left-wing parties. That's a plan I'm very much in favour of. I am glad that it is in the coalition agreement, but it has been assumed that it will not be possible in this cabinet period. Well, the three left-wing parties think we can, so I'm very curious about the cabinet's reaction. Can it be faster than in the coalition agreement, or is it not, unfortunately, possible, despite the intentions? I like to hear that. Mr. Chairman. The emphasis on income progress is on workers, especially those with middle incomes. People feel better in their wallets. They also notice this because there are a total of 300,000 jobs in this cabinet period. Businesses must also play their part, because there is room for a substantial increase in wages. I therefore call on companies today to really seize that space and to ensure that those wages increase. Then I have a question for the Minister. His predecessor always made this call. I would ask him to make the same appeal on behalf of the new cabinet tomorrow, so that companies really translate the room for wage increases into higher wages. What we have done in the coalition agreement is that all groups are making progress. I think that's a win. Of course, there are also hundreds of thousands of people in there for whom this is not the case because of a combination of circumstances: single people, one earners, two earners, large income progress, a sign, I think, of a nice compromise between the more Christian parties and D66. The sole earner is improving. Where this has often been at the expense of working mothers in earlier Christian parties' plans, what I call, we have found here a mode to reduce marginal pressure for them too. That is a win-win and I think that is a sign of good cooperation. Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Secretary of State about self-employed people. There is a very ambitious reform agenda in the cabinet. It goes from climate to retirement, from housing market to the approach to the division of the labour market. We are going to talk about this in detail in all the budget debates. The Secretary of State is also responsible for the successor of the DBA Act, which affects so many self-employed people. The cabinet is now going to make a distinction between different groups of self-employed people and protect the bottom better, but it is also going to take measures to give more space to self-employed people who are genuine entrepreneurs and that DBA Act is going off the table. Can the Secretary of State say anything about the elaboration of these plans? I actually want to know exactly when that successor to the DBA Act will arrive. When will there be a well-functioning web module? When do people know that the opt-out will apply to me above €75 from now on? The sooner the better. I understand it's complex, but there's a lot of concern there. Let this be translated into practice. Mr President, I will conclude. My group is looking forward to the drafting of the coalition agreement, from paper to practice. I wish both rulers every success. I look forward to a good partnership. The D66 Group will operate constructively, intriguingly and where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u104	I really want to make sure that the interruptions are short and consist only of a question and do not start with an introduction or a reflection. In this way, the whole scheme is confused. You guys know that, too. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u105	I'm usually short of dust.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u106	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u107	I have another question about the budgetary rules. Your colleague was worried about rising health care. If he succeeds in reducing the cost of care, you will suffer, because you are dealing with the tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u108	Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u109	What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u110	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u111	I think it's a pretty cute little bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u112	Now the answer and that must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u113	I think this is going according to the regular system in the income frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u114	That's not judgment. Do you agree with me that it is very hard for people that if they manage to slow down the rise in healthcare costs and if nominal premiums do not rise so quickly, the Tax Administration will immediately say: and now we are going to increase your rate in the first disc?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u115	I do not think I feel the same moral indignation as Mr Snels. I think it is an interesting question for the Minister, and I would ask him to clarify this and also to comment on whether this is the best way of shaping it. According to this, this is how we've been doing it for a long time. However, I think the question is so relevant that I would like to see the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u116	I read fine words in the D66 programme about labour market discrimination, about honesty, about accessibility, about what the impact can be if you are unable to participate. I am therefore curious to see how much this cabinet pays out, in the package that Mr Van Weyenberg is talking about, for the fight against racism and discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u117	I wonder whether this is primarily a financial issue for which we should draw euros. If there are any bottlenecks in the capacity of detection, I'd like to hear it. By the way, more money will be released for the police and the state's attorney's office. That might help. I welcome the fact that the government agreement, in two places in fact, is something where we often work together, namely the approach to labour market discrimination. When it comes to participation, it also includes the fact that we do not accept that people are excluded, whether it is based on the country of birth of often now their grandparents, or of their sexual preference, whatever. I therefore expect the cabinet to take this into account when it comes to the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs, too, and I will call for a very ambitious continuation of the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination, whether it is pregnancy discrimination or any form of discrimination. If there's any problem with money, I'd like to hear it. I think it is particularly important that the cabinet stays on top of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u118	We share that concern. Thank you for that answer. I am a little wary, because I have spoken to a former minister and he said to me: Mr Azarkan, do you not believe what I am saying, but do you believe how much I reserve and what is in the budget? That's why I'm asking what specific intensifications you could do. Let me give you an example. The programme of DENK includes racism police and much more emphasis on quotas. Do you share that? Can we read that in the budget somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u119	These are two instruments. Within the budgets, it is partly a matter of priorities. That quota is neither in my programme nor in the coalition agreement. Above all, what I want to make an extraordinary effort on is that this cabinet continues to radiate that the cabinet is there for... I don't have much with the term "normal Dutch." May I make it all Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, compliments to Mr Sneller for his beautiful and passionate maiden speech. Congratulations also to both rulers; a nice job for the bow, important for the country. I'd say enjoy it and put it on! I would also like to congratulate you on the starting point. I checked with the CPB to see how far back we could look. If you look back over the past 50 years at how a cabinet started, financial and economic sustainability of public finances, projected economic growth, unemployment level and government balance, you can actually conclude that there is no better starting position for a cabinet. Mr. Chairman. It is the first time for me to assess the present budget from the opposition, but I will do so on the basis of the same values and conviction as I did from the coalition. I joined the Labour Party in the 1990s, when "strong and social" was the slogan. I studied economics. You need a strong economy to be a social country. That was and is my conviction. I have paid more attention to this in the General Financial Reviews, and I have increasingly come to the belief that if your economy is not social, you cannot be a strong country. You also need a social society in which people are helped when they are sick once, in which, if you are not given all the opportunities from home, you can still go to school and maybe stack an education, for example mbo and hbo, to make some of your life and in which, when you are fired, you are not directly on black seed but financially supported. From this conviction, I have built up my speeches over the past few years, and I will now assess the cabinet proposals. I'll tell you what I'm missing. I'll tell you what I like and of course what I don't like. I will also put alternatives to that. You can expect the same from the Labour Party. This time we managed to make six other main choices with GroenLinks and the SP in the short term. They're also affordable, which was calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. Mr. Chairman. I'll get to the six main choices first. I'm gonna start living. Why? Because I think this does not have enough attention here in the House of Representatives. People are on a waiting list for a rental house. The affordability of living, the affordability of renting is under pressure. Students pay way too much for a dorm room. Or look at the situation for buyers in the big cities right now. Amsterdam threatens to become an enclave, investors take over power in the cities. I think that the coalition agreement on this issue is very thin. There's been a lot of criticism, we've had a lot of discussion over the last few days. Where for buyers one-on-one the adjustments are returned, euro for euro, cent for cent, tenants are cut. I don't understand anything about that. I don't understand anything about that in these times. Why did the cabinet make that choice? In view of the enormous problems in the housing market, is it prepared to refrain from doing so? Tenants only advance half of it compared to buyers. They're just getting caught up. That's just conscious policy. I think that's really unwise. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second point, the concern. Two points I think are very good, the PvdA is very good, starting with the investment of more than 2 billion in nursing homes. There is broad agreement in the Chamber on this. Last week there has been a fierce debate in the General Political Reviews, but the cuts on district nurses are off the table. What I do not approve of is that one's own risk is not completely eliminated. People don't choose to be sick. That's miserable enough. I do not think it is a social and solidarity choice to keep those costs, that own risk at this level, while people refrain from going to the doctor. This combined with a premium increase of €300 per year, where the debate earlier on today is putting pressure on the affordability and availability of care. It shouldn't be. I'd like to get a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I would like to express two sincere congratulations on the choices made in the Social Affairs and Employment budget, and I would like to point out two things that the PvdA would like to see different from that. Compliments for extending the childcare allowance. Combine it all in normal life if you have children, a family. Then it is good that childcare stays a bit affordable. It is quite expensive now, so it is a good thing that extra money is being allocated to it. The same applies to the extension of parental leave. He's pretty generous. The expansion has been launched, but it will be expanded significantly by a number of weeks. That's good. That is also what the PvdA Group supports. What my group does not approve of is a five-month probation period. The PvdA Group actually finds that incomprehensible at this time. You're outlawed if your employer can still say after 4 months and 28 days: look at it; you're fired from today. What's that for? What good is that for in these times? I come to the other point on the Social Affairs and Employment budget which we really do not agree with. We all talk to people who are moving towards retirement age and who are no longer able to do so, perhaps because they have a hard job or because they are really not comfortable anymore. Why isn't there an opportunity for those people to stop working sooner? The AOW age is increased. We're all getting older, but people on low incomes are having the greatest difficulty in getting their early retirement. Why isn't anything being done for these people? There's not a word to be devoted to it. We are taking out a billion dollars in our counter-proposals. When you talk to people, you really find this is a big problem. I really don't understand why the Cabinet is not paying any attention to that. I come to the proposals on education. There is a bit of a half-full glass. We are dealing with striking teachers who rightly say: the workload is very high, I suffer from stress and my salary is insufficient, so I want to add some. The cabinet actually said, "I'll give you about half." Why didn't it give the other half in these times? That would have been much better, and rightly so, because that would have been a token of appreciation for the teachers in primary school. We've all been with those teachers in the classroom. That's the beauty of elementary school: everyone goes there and they do so much good work. My fifth point concerns the climate. Congratulations on the ambitious objectives. It will be quite a tour to make, as is shown by the accounts of the Planning Office for the Environment. Congratulations for these objectives, but the big question that lies above them, of course, is: what is the cabinet going to do to achieve these objectives? 'Cause what's in there right now isn't enough. If additional financial resources are needed, will they be available? Then what's leading? I have read the annexes to the coalition agreement well. It says that the financial table is leading. I predict that both can't go well: either there will have to be extra money to meet the climate targets, or you won't achieve the climate targets. If you think otherwise, I would like to hear a convincing story tomorrow about how both can be reconciled, but I do not see that happening. I come to the government's tax measures. With taxes you can also shape a just, social society. With the tax measures, that does not surprise anyone here, because we have already talked a lot about it. It is deliberately chosen to give investors and multinationals billions in tax rebates and it is deliberately chosen to put ordinary people and SMEs at a disadvantage. The big question in this debate is: why would you abolish the dividend tax for 1.4 billion? It is a matter of foreign investors and it has no effect on employment and at the same time increase VAT? Why? What does that mean for the Dutch economy? Why reduce VPB rates to 3.3 billion and not invest in teachers and not eliminate their own risk in healthcare and not keep care affordable? What's with the choices? Those choices can just be made. That's what we're showing you. Who is waiting for that and what is the ratio behind it, especially given the Paradise Papers, which also brought out new information yesterday? In this context, I would also like to see the above. It shows that the Netherlands plays a major role in tax avoidance in the world. We must put an end to this. I am glad to hear more right-wing parties in this Chamber supporting that plea. But why does the cabinet go in the race to the bottom with the Vpb rates? We believe that large companies pay too little tax. You can see that. Apple, Google, Facebook, they're barely paying taxes anymore. The PvdA believes that every company in the place where it is located has to pay its fair share, as does SMEs and as we all have to do, all the people who live in the Netherlands. If you sever tax avoidance routes, as the Cabinet does on a few points, which also has the support of the PvdA Group, then I wonder why these companies are rewarded with lower Vpb rates. That's perverse, isn't it? Isn't that supposed to fix what you were up to? And, more so within the companies, why do you confront the family business, the SMEs, with three tax increases, while at the same time abolishing the dividend tax for foreign investors? I really don't understand any of these choices. It wasn't in election programs either, so I don't think a lot of people will understand this. I come to some more budget-related issues, because the Financial Reviews are also about the Start note. I would also like to congratulate you on that. I welcome the fact that the exchange rate has been placed outside the box. Every year it was a miserable discussion. No dog understood anything about that. But it did have big consequences, because you could just cut another 1 billion, 2 billion, or suddenly you had space again. It is good and really wise to stop putting that under those frameworks. It led to unrest, and we shouldn't have that. The same applies to the WW funds, as proposed by the cabinet. What I do not like is that the extraction of gas in Groningen is now falling under these frameworks at once. That sounds very technical, but it just means that if we want to improve the safety of Groninger's "Wopke" sounds Fries, but I'm a Groninger.. by reducing gas extraction, we need to cut back on care, education, social affairs, police or I know what else. It never was. During the previous period, I tried to resist this with a hand and a tooth in the face of the fact that this would happen. I don't think it's fair either. I think that security and security of supply in Groningen are arguments, but I do not think it is fair to play Groningen against the rest of the Netherlands. I don't understand why the cabinet made that choice. Mr President, I would like to make my second point on the Start note. I saw a lot of things on the so-called supplementary post. Every normal person then wonders what that's about. In fact, ministers who want to spend their money are talking about more than EUR 7 billion, so almost all of the extra expenditure that ministers are allowed to do is to go to the Minister of Finance first. In fact, the ministers are a little under the authority of the Minister of Finance. My question to the Minister is how he got his colleagues so crazy that they all want to do that. It never was. The Minister of Education gets extra money, but he can't spend it until the Minister of Finance approves it. In Defense and Security and Justice, now Justice and Security, it was. That was right, because it was an administrative gang in those ministries. If you gave them extra money, you'd better see where that went and that's why we made room demands. But now it applies to all expenditure. Only one minister is more or less excluded, namely the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. You can check that; look through the tables. I can see how that's possible. He's the only minister who really cares about his own money. But how is that possible? How crazy are they to give so much power to the Minister of Finance? I can compliment him on it, but I don't get it at all from the other ministers. Finally, Mr President. The Start note is based on anti-cyclical fiscal policies. This means that it will be in the balance if it is not economically viable. We don't have to make extra cuts. If you're lucky, you don't have to go the other way. How does that actually relate to bringing forward so many load reliefs that would take place after 2021? It's going well economically, isn't it? Or did I see that wrong? In that case, it does not make any sense to put forward almost EUR 6 billion now. Why is that even happening? I understand that this is attractive to the electorate, but they will then get the increase in the costs. Why is this good cyclical economic policy? The final point is that I see that a great deal of investment in infrastructure, development cooperation and the environment is only for four years. After that, we have to cut back. It is very early, because the cabinet has just been there for a few days, but you are saddled with a problem with the successors of the Minister for Development Cooperation, the Minister for Infrastructure and the Minister for the Environment, because they are starting with a cut. That's actually very unusual. Why was that choice made in these times of abundance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u122	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u123	I have one final word, but I can do that after an interruption, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u124	I have a question about the burdens in the plan of the SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party. I can actually hear you blaming me for the fact that there is too much burden relief. Is that also why your own plan is full of burdens in this cabinet period? And do I understand correctly that after this cabinet period, not only the sustainability deficit is greater and structural employment is 70,000 lower, but that there is also a burden increase after this cabinet period? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr Van Weyenberg is absolutely right to say that we are not doing that reduction of the Vpb tariff, that we are not abolishing the dividend tax and that we are taxing more on the environment; GroenLinks is, of course, also with us and the PvdA Group is in favour of that. That is all true; of course that is true. We are doing other things for that, as I have just said: abolishing one's own risk, giving the teachers real appreciation and also something that D66 should be warmed up to raise wages across the public sector. Those are very different choices. That's right; I just argued that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u126	Of course, I was talking about income tax. It just goes up a lot in your plan. Isn't that right? And isn't it true that after this cabinet period, there are still more burdens in it? You may not see them at once in the pass-through, but when I look through my eye hairs at your plan, I just see a burden increase. It is a simple question: is it true that I think you are raising income tax by about 7 billion more than the cabinet? The cabinet lowers income tax and you increase it; the difference is 7 billion. So, one, is that right? I'm talking about income tax, huh? Two: is it true that there are still burdens in your barrel after this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u127	It is true that we do not do the ball-ball of the two-tax system. That is right; we are not doing the coalition's disc state, because it requires an increase in VAT and we do not want to increase it. That's not what we're here for. So we don't. We do not give that relief and we do not increase VAT. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u128	That was the same question and therefore the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u129	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I'll answer. This was the first question. The second question was structural: yes, it is, but so is the cabinet. In fact, that was just my point: the cabinet is bringing forward a lot of money. In the future, people will indeed have to continue to pay taxes. That will continue to be the case, but the government's sustainability deficit, the gap created by the cabinet, is much bigger than what we have proposed, because it adds two tenths. The cabinet lets it run by six tenths or seven tenths.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u130	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u131	I think this is a little ball ball, because I think you are raising the government's sustainability deficit from 0.4 to 0.6.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u132	Two-tenths, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u133	No, you're acting like you're doing less than we are. With you, the sustainability deficit is getting bigger than with the cabinet; let's just establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u134	Two-tenths and you do seven-tenths.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u135	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u136	I just want an answer to my very specific question. Indeed, income tax is already falling in the cabinet plan. So you're already getting that future load relief. You don't have to pay it back later; you just get it sooner. I understand that your income tax is rising and that after this cabinet period there is still a much greater increase in taxation. That is what I am asking Mr Nijboer and I am smuggling a little bit, Mr President-in-Office at the same time to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u137	We're just making totally different choices for tax purposes. You can just see that in that wire transfer. You raise the first rate because you want to have such a flat fee if necessary. The first disc goes up. It's going down with us. So there's a load relief. And no, we are not lowering the top rate below 52%. That's right. We are a left-wing party, which wants a higher top rate, because that is what she thinks is fair and progressive. So these are totally different choices. We're not gonna do the VAT increase that nobody's looking for and nobody's been promised. Those are other choices. What the effects of the choices are, you can just read.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u138	Mr Nijboer of the PvdA just made an interesting speech on bringing gas production under the framework. I agree that it is actually a very creepy thing to link gas extraction to cuts elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u139	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u140	But what do you think of the fact that interest charges are also brought under the framework? Because, of course, we can all set our clock on increasing interest rates in the years to come. That means additional cuts or an increase in the burden.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u141	I think that last prophecy is a difficult one. Look at Japan: there have been low interest rates there for 20 years. You could also reason the other way around, and the PVV could even take advantage of that: if the interest rate stays very low, you have even more money to spend. In itself, interest expenditure on a budget is, of course, expenditure to be financed, even in the long term. So I can make a show out of that. On the other hand, I agree with you. If all of this puts an end to major public expenditure, I cannot support it. Actually, I think it's just a good question to the cabinet. What are the advantages and disadvantages of this and what have been the reasons for bringing them under the framework? I am not very clear on that. I will not fight myself to death whether or not this is under the box.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u142	Okay, here's the deal. I hadn't heard it in any other contributions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u143	No, me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u144	Another question. I hear you about the rents. I don't really see much of it in the left-wing plans. All I see is the more building of rentals, but I don't see a real rent cut again. And the PvdA is, of course, responsible for the huge rent increase of the last four years. I believe that rents increased by 15% compared to four years ago. You say "you don't do anything for the rents" and you name it, but you're actually responsible for the huge increase in rents over the last few years. It's still bothering people now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u145	Over the past few years, when we started, the cabinet began in a thick financial misery. That's when everyone felt it, including the tenants. I fully acknowledge that. At the same time, I have raised a great deal with the Christian Union, Carola Schouten, to increase the rent payment time and time again. It has been raised every time in recent years. I've been interrupting about the cut in rent. We're charging 1.2 billion for affordable homes. That amount is on top of the government's 100 million, which really isn't that much. This concerns partly new construction, partly rent payment and other measures. That's what you can read in the plans. I admit it's a table. There's $600 million twice. That's the whole story, but there's real money for affordable homes. We made sure of that. The three of us felt that this was important because it was such a big social theme. Finally, Mr President. I look forward to bright and fun, good debates. I will continue to name what makes the country stronger and more social, but above all more social and stronger in the coming period. I also hope to be able to convince the government that in the coming years it will have to move a lot more in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u147	Madam President. What does the Netherlands make its money in the twenty-first century? Not with banks, insurances or mailbox companies. The Christian Union strongly believes in the strength of the real economy, in products with real added value, in people who have learned a profession, in people who, with heart and soul in companies or in the public service, make a positive contribution to our society and in families who simply do their best to combine care tasks and work, who have the housekeeping in order every month, pay their taxes neatly and maybe even save some money at the end of the month. The government encourages citizens to properly bear responsibility for themselves, their environment and creation. If, in the Netherlands, all these employees are trying so hard for SMEs,zzp'ers, fathers and mothers, grandpa's and grandma's to form society into something good, then as a government you have an expensive duty to show that same responsible behaviour. Trust in the future also means being able to rely on the government. And there lies a great task for this cabinet. In general, the Christian Union can live well with the way in which this cabinet deals with the state finances. The cabinet invests heavily in education, research and infrastructure. After years on primary public service, the cabinet strengthens the performance of these public tasks by hundreds of millions for security and structurally an additional 1.5 billion for defence. This must make the call of "pangpang" in an exercise a permanent thing of the past and make an important step towards the NATO average in this cabinet period, even though we are not there yet. Surveillance services and other elements of the administration essential to our society are no longer being squeezed out, but strengthened. The major challenge of tackling climate change and the energy transition has been included in the coalition agreement more than ever, although some of the measures still need to be made concrete. Others have already asked questions about this. The downside of all this type of expenditure is that the sustainability of public finances is deteriorating; it is not a hooray budget. Sustainability goes from +0.2% to -0.4% of GDP. On the other hand, margins relative to the medium-term objectives for budgetary balances are sufficient, but at the same time rather narrow, and the policy package is certainly procyclical in the first two years. Since the government agreement was not based on a cautious scenario, but on an economic model growth of 2%, well above potential growth, the Council of State recommends an alternative way of building a little more security. Of course, my group would prefer to spend the proposed intensifications well. However, I ask the Minister what he thinks about the recommendations of the Council of State, for example on conditional granting of the intensifications for later years. What about the economy advocated by the Council of State? No misunderstanding: the good thing about this coalition agreement is that the stabilising effect of the budget on the economy is strengthened. And, of course, it is only right that all those professionals in education, in the police, in the army should be given a salary after years of vigil. The Christian Union Group is inspired by Joseph's Old Testament story. This viceroy of Egypt made sure that the grain barns were filled during the years of abundance, so that the land was well resistant to the famine that followed. I certainly see Joseph's spirit partly in cabinet policy. Despite the absolutely significant increase in public expenditure, gross collective expenditure is now falling from 43.0% to 42.5% of GDP in the near future, the current estimates show that the EMU balance remains positive and that EMU debt is almost falling to pre-crisis levels. That's worth a compliment. But hopefully the margins are such that even in the event of a sudden change of direction, which is not unthinkable; the period under Balkenende IV is still clear in my group's view, the automatic stabilisers can do their job without any painful intervention being required. I look forward to the reflection of our new Finance Minister on this, also in the light of the international context of uncertainty. Where the expenditure side of the government agreement puts pressure on the sustainability of public finances, this does not apply to the cabinet's burden package. This is quite clever, with a considerable reduction in the burden on households in this cabinet period compared to the basic path, which does not further increase the collective burden burden, but remains the same. Of course a drop would have been even better, but I count my blessings. In the long term, the sustainability of public finances remains intact. Certainly, as far as our group is concerned, the tax reform should have gone further, but it is promising that under this cabinet, the ever-increasing gaps in society will not be further increased, but stabilised and in some cases even reduced. I am thinking, of course, of the extreme gap in the tax burden between families with income and two incomes, of the gap between self-employed and self-employed, and of the gap between homeowners and tenants in the free sector. Measures such as the introduction of the two-sided rate into income tax, the increase in the child-related budget and the care allowance for couples, the reduction of all the deductions from the top rate to the basic rate and the removal of the Hills Act are clearly reducing the gaps struck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u148	Mr President, good texts so far. So I don't really have any questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u150	But I do have a question about the future attitude of the Christian Union Group. Compliments for what she's achieved for a earner. We're happy about that. In any case, the gap is not widening and purchasing power is looking good. At the same time, this gap in taxation is still there. I think Mr Bruins recognizes this. Will the Christian Union be looking with us for opportunities to narrow the gap even further in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u151	I told you, it's a good start. It is not yet complete as far as our group is concerned. It is a nice step in the right direction, also for the difference between one and two earners. In any case, the difference in tax burden is not increasing, but I am absolutely open to looking, together with the SGP, at proposals, measures, to close the gap in society further and to find the connection, because we are ultimately in favour of the principle of carrying capacity. You carry the burden according to weight per household. As far as we are concerned, that is the smallest unit in society we are looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u152	Thank you. I am glad that participation in the cabinet has not silenced the clear sound that has sounded so far. So we are going forward together to look for the closing of the gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u153	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr. Chairman. This is not yet the case with the Christian Union, but at least during this cabinet period we are breaking the trend that was so strong under the last cabinet, namely the increasing tax differences on the same gross income. I said it in my reply to Mr Dijkgraaf. It goes too far to say that the principle of carrying capacity has been fully restored, but the first step, which I have just mentioned, has been taken. With the burden package in the government agreement, this cabinet is starting the tax reform. This is also what the cabinet intends to do with our pension system and the labour market. I look forward to these reforms. The same applies to the shift from a fossil to a sustainable economy. I hope that these rulers will do everything in their power to ensure that these reforms succeed. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on two of my group's concerns. First of all, this concerns the housing market. Mr Nijboer has already said that it is very important. Feature of the Dutch economy is that high-conjuncture and overheating in the housing market go hand in hand. This intertwinedness is not only a risk to the economy and public finances, but also has a major impact on the viability of our cities and household housing costs. Yesterday, for example, the CBS came out with the message that more and more young children are leaving the big city. The departure of young families from the city is partly a natural phenomenon, but the acceleration of this trend clearly has to do with the fact that it is increasingly complicated for families with children to find an affordable home in our cities. With this middle class pulling away more and more, the future of the viability of our big cities is at stake. How does the Minister view this? Are the financial measures provided for in the coalition agreement a satisfactory response? Mr. Chairman. A second concern that I would like to bring to the attention of the Minister concerns the cost of care, the cuckoo youth of collective spending. Good care costs a lot of money and the Christian Union is happy to do so. But figure 2 in the Minister's starting note is, of course, all-encompassing. After the previous cabinet has managed to manage healthcare spending in recent years, it seems as if there will be a catching-up in the coming years. The cost of care is growing roughly twice as fast as our economy, and everyone understands that this is difficult to sustain in the long term, both in government and among the citizens themselves. The Minister did not, of course, record this figure for nothing and thereby provoke a reaction from us. How does the Minister intend to ensure that the health expenditure line in the graph does not rise as quickly as it now appears?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u155	I thought Mr Bruins spoke nicely about the housing market, and I also found him very honest in the previous debate. So I will not ask him about the dividend tax. It was quite a melon for the Christian Union to swallow. I'll never forget that image again. She doesn't like it, but she agrees because of the coalition agreement. I would like to ask Mr Bruins how he looks at the cuts in the rent allowance in the coalition agreement. With my colleague Mr Schouten, who was at least as fanatical as I am, I have increased year in, year out of that rent allowance with amendment and know-what. Now there's a cut in the coalition agreement. How does the Christian Union view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u156	The word "total package" has fallen too often this day. We have, of course, looked at the overall package and signed it, but there is a lot to say about it. Yes, we have agreed to it and signed it, but at the same time we are very careful not to unnecessarily widen the gap between owners of their own home and people living in a rental house. We've made sure that we don't lose all kinds of surcharges, which are now going to go obliquely. In short, when you look at the overall package, you see that the tax burden becomes more equitable and that in many places, depending on salary, marginal pressure in particular goes down. Of this total package, we have said that we really dare to sign it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u157	I just think that phasing out the rent allowance is a good measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u159	At the same time, I have more concerns about the balance between buyers and tenants than the Christian Union has just indicated. In the coming years, you can see the buyers making twice as much progress as the tenants, while tenants have major payment problems for their home. There has been a lot of discussion about it, but buyers are compensated one-on-one for the Hills Act, as well as for the mortgage interest deduction, while tenants get a cut in the price. That must be hard to digest, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u160	I am also looking at the increase in purchasing power for all groups in society, at the reduction in income tax and, by the way, at the abolition of the Hills Act, which does not affect tenants, while I understand that it is best for people with a long-term residence to feel like you are being punished. With that combination and balance, the total plate also looks good for tenants in the coming years, although I certainly understand Mr Nijboer's remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u161	Tenants advance 0.8% and buyers 1.4%. That's a pretty big difference, I'd say. I understand that the cut on the rent allowance cannot be removed from the overall package. That has already become clear to me today. But if good proposals are put forward in the coming years against the cut in rent payments, which is not being introduced immediately, can I ask Mr Bruins if the Christian Union will take a favourable look at this? The PvdA has done the same towards the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u162	We are always open to constructive ideas. However, I warn that we should not be pumping more and more money around in our country. If measures a are covered and b close gaps and establish links between different groups in our country, then we look at them under the condition that it is not just the pumping around of public money. I am going to look together with Mr Nijboer at his concrete plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u163	I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u164	I have already exchanged a few words with Mr Bruins on the dividend tax. Apart from reading in the newspaper that the Christian Union believes development cooperation for multinationals, he has indeed said that it was a melon to swallow. You're gonna have to get some of that, I can imagine. My question is about the cost of care, because you call it a cuckoo boy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u165	Now I had prepared myself for the dividend tax, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u166	Well, then especially for Mr. Bruins... No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u167	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr Bruins calls them a cuckoo boy. When the Committee on Finance talks about care costs as a cuckoo boy, I am very wary, because as a former spokesperson, I have seen how shortsighted the government is only looking at healthcare costs and not at health benefits. Wouldn't it be nice if, as financial spokesmen, we didn't start to use the parameters of, for example, the CPB, in which care costs can only be controlled by increasing our own contribution or reducing the claims? Because then the one-to-one account will end up with patients, who are generally already lagging behind, certainly financially. Is Mr Bruins prepared to take that together, to see where these costs are exactly and to see how we can save on care without affecting the people who work in care or the patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u168	I am so pleased with Mrs Leijten's hand-out, because this is so very important. Those care costs are a millstone around the neck of the state finances. We have to do something with that and we can't wait much longer. I am therefore very pleased that this coalition agreement is so strongly committed to prevention, for example on the road to a smoke-free generation. I also think we should focus on innovation that does not make our care more expensive, so not even higher tesla magnetic field MRI for specialist X in hospital Y, but innovations that make care cheaper while preserving humanity, attention and hands on the bed. I very much appreciate Mrs Leijten's hand-out and I hope that we can work together on measures to reduce the cost of care in the future so that we can keep it under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u169	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u170	That is what we are going to do, but I believe that we need to set out one basic principle, namely that we are not only talking about healthcare costs, but also about returns. In a country where socio-economic health inequalities lead to people with practical training and generally a somewhat heavier profession dying seven years earlier and having a worse health for almost 20 years, we should not assume the parameters in which you are punished if you are ill or if you no longer have access to care when you are sick. These are actually the only two keys that have so far been used by governments and by the Central Planning Office, while we also see 10 billion profits being made every year in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u171	What do you want to know about Mr Bruins?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u172	Well, let's put the parameter underneath where we're not just talking about healthcare costs, but also about the returns. If you're just staring at the cost, it looks like a cuckoo boy, while there's so much revenue for our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u173	Mr. Bruins, will you respond briefly to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u174	My heart is getting warm from these words. About a year ago, we were talking about the broad concept of prosperity in this Chamber. A good society like the Christian Union that stands for is about making more than money. That's also: how do we deal with each other? Do we have eyes for each other? How do we deal with vulnerable people? And also: what good is it if we keep people healthy? It can't be that, because our Central Planning Office doesn't have an economic model for that, we stop with common sense. We have two rulers here with whom I consider common sense to be particularly high. I therefore look forward to looking, together with these rulers, beyond economic models, to see how we can make new connections in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u175	Perhaps we should also ask the CPB to determine the health benefits of compulsory physical education in primary school. We never look at that either. It used to exist, but we almost abolished it. Mr Bruins said that this dividend tax is not ours. What argument does he have to abolish the Hills Act? I just heard him say, in the long run, it hurts. The short term therefore does not matter, although "short" is a stretchable concept. That 30 could be four tomorrow. Why did you ultimately support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u176	It wasn't in our election program, it wasn't in the pass-through. I admit that. At PVV, the SP, GroenLinks and the PvdA this was different in the previous period. For this cabinet period it concerns the SP, GroenLinks, the PvdA and D66. Let me reach out to you. I understand that the measure feels that some people are being punished for being clean. I can quite understand that. That's why it wasn't in our election program. And yet I dare to defend the abolition of the Hills Act. That's what I'm doing from my story about closing gaps. You yourself, from your party political point of view, emphasize differences that exist. I would also like to emphasise a difference. First, someone with a rental house that lasts a little every month and tries to save a small fortune for his old age. Whoever puts that on the couch and then has a sum standing there, an apple for thirst, or a melon for thirst to stay with the right fruits. In addition, I put the owner who also saves neatly, but that ends in the repayment of his mortgage. Whoever sits in a rental house and has savings, pays a tax in box 3 on a fictitious return. That is a tax on a fictitious return of 4% and that goes down. But the person who saves by redeeming his mortgage and who ultimately repaid or almost repaid his mortgage now has to deal with the abolition of the Hills Act. He pays for his own house, which he has to count, but does not have 4% fictitious but only 0.6% to add. That is also a difference, an injustice I say: you can also bridge that gap by abolishing the Hills Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u177	That was a very long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u178	Oh, I had a lot more arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u179	No, no, I really don't. The interruptions must be brief, and that is what I am addressing the Members of Parliament to, but also the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u180	Yes, Mr. Chairman, a brief question. I appreciate the detail, by the way, but I understand your focus on timing. Actually, I just have this question. I'm asking the question very differently now, just separate from money and box 1 and 3. Is it fair and just from your former Christian-historical or, rather, your Christian Union sense that you stand here defending a government that is completely unreliable and that violates the trust of the citizens, because it says in the law: if you repay that debt, then you will not get an addition? Those who have a debt will be added. But there are also people who have been relieved by being economical and have been saved from 55 or 60 years of age by not taking a holiday. Those people are hitting you by a fine, and all you're saying is that we're going to do it slowly. For those who have just started, it is only 30 years from now, but the people who have already relieved will be fined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u181	Mr President, for the sake of a short answer, I can refer to the answers given by Mr Omtzigt to the same interruption in his term and point out the fine of €1 in the month that Mr Omtzigt predicates, while at the same time there are many advantages for homeowners and consumers are also making considerable progress in the new tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u182	I see you're switching microphones. It doesn't matter; it'll be your last comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u183	I wanted to run away to help you, Mr President, but I note that Mr Bruins is not answering and is referring to a completely different reply from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u184	Finally, let me say that I started by saying that the government must be economical with public finances and that the Hills Act would, in fact, lead to long-term sustainability problems. We don't want that. A thrifty government must also ensure that public finances are sustainable in the long term and that the Hills Act is abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr President, I shall be brief. I saw the disappointment on Mr Bruins' face when he did not get a question about the dividend tax. So I'm doing this one question for Mr Bruins as well. I have read the reconstruction of Petra de Koning, and indeed it talks about a long agony, but it also says that the Christian Union called the dividend tax abolition development cooperation for foreign multinationals. What's with the term, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u186	In all honesty, I do not know which of my group has mentioned that term. I didn't come up with it, but at least he got in the paper. I'm sure one of my colleagues mentioned him in the reconstruction or during the whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u187	But why was that called in the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u188	What's the answer you're looking for? Can you help me and tell me what you're looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u189	I'm going to explain that to you. The Christian Union thought it was a ridiculous measure and you called it that because it also worked out, albeit as a levy it is not so much for multinational companies as for foreign companies. It's something for America and other countries, because it's going to end up in the treasury there. If that is what you call it, and it is what you call it, there is, of course, an ideology behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u190	Well, there are a lot of arguments about abolishing the dividend tax that have gone back and forth today. You can think of benefits, you can think of disadvantages. This morning we read the views of the economists in De Telegraaf. Look, you might wonder which stock exchange a company records its shares to. Here or elsewhere? Does it improve the locational environment? It certainly doesn't make it any worse. There is case law coming from the European Court of Justice. Maybe in a few years we'd have had a problem anyway. These are all arguments that you can put forward in order to call for the abolition of the dividend tax. The Christian Union, through that NRC article but also earlier during the WHO in which I talked about it, has chosen to say the following. It wasn't in our election program. We have signed the Tax Plan as it stands. With its effects, of which it is calculated how they are knocking down citizens and businesses, we are extremely content. This applies to the total, and therefore also to this dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u191	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u192	I thought that assessment of 'development cooperation for foreign multinationals' was a very good one. I think that says enough. You can turn around, but that doesn't really work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u193	I certainly do not deny that it is in the newspaper and that it has apparently been said. Nor is there any need on my part to swallow words from or on behalf of my group. So we just keep it in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u194	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u195	Thank you. Mr President, it is well known that the abolition of the dividend tax was not included in our programme. But I would stress all the other measures, for example that we do not change the bonus policy and that tax avoidance is being tackled firmly. We are extremely pleased with that. Mr. Chairman. We also welcome the introduction of a withholding tax on interest and royalties on outgoing flows to countries with very low taxes announced in the government agreement. I have a few more questions to ask the Secretary of State. How exactly is this going to be designed, and how do we ensure that this tax becomes effective? Will the cabinet reconsider the treaties that we have with non-cooperative jurisdictions, as requested by the adopted Schouten/Great motion of June last year? When can we look forward to these and other measures taken by the Secretary of State to make letterbox companies much less attractive to life? I ask the Cabinet to clarify this before Christmas. No misunderstanding: my entire group, including the enthusiastic fan in my group, loves to expel U2 today rather than tomorrow from the Amsterdam canals. That is why, once again, I would like to call for a concrete plan as soon as possible. Finally, Mr President, I come to the issue of non-tax revenue. The Empire expects to receive €26 billion in non-tax revenue next year. The Court of Auditors has found that non-tax revenue is much higher than budgeted each year. Each year, ministries report additional revenue to the Navy Note in the annual report. In recent years, this was on average 678 million. The General Court therefore notes that ministries are structurally under-budgeting non-tax revenue. Thus, they receive more than estimated structuralally. Is the Minister prepared, as recommended by the General Court, to examine, from the point of view of the supervision of the state budget, where the more and less earnings come from, and what happens every year with any additional revenue? Is he prepared to provide the trade ministers with clearer budgetary rules in the coming year? Is he prepared to make an extra effort, together with the trade ministers, to provide the most realistic estimate of the non-tax revenue for 2018? Does he dare to face the challenge of not allowing the deviation to exceed 100 million in the future? (NL) Mr President, in conclusion, I wish both directors much joy in their beautiful and responsible work as a treasurer and treasurer. I wish them the wisdom of Joseph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u196	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u197	Thank you, Mr President. The rulers are also concerned about spending, I think. On this first cold Wednesday of 2017 I would like to warmly congratulate the Cabinet on its first General Financial Reviews. I wish the Minister of State I had already done so last week. Good luck and pleasure on behalf of 50PLUS. I would also like to ask him: Brussels, how is your first experience? Maybe I'll come back to that at the end: the baptism of fire. In our view, you have said very commendable words; you have stuck to them. I look forward to the debate with this Minister. First together in the Senate opposite Jeroen Dijsselbloem and now here opposite each other. I have already found, with Mr Dijkgraaf, that there is a difference between the First and Second Chambers. Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna drop into the house with my own house. I have asked the four coalition parties about this neatly equally and fairly. Article 104 of the Constitution, on taxation, reads as follows: "Taxations of the Empire are levied in force of a law. Other taxes of the Empire are regulated by the law." This is in the Constitution. The text of Article 104 was drawn up thanks to an amendment adopted by the House of Representatives - Van Rooijen and Others, at the end of the seventies. Initially, the government had stated in the Constitutional text: "taxes" "this is especially important for the State Secretary "and other taxes of the Empire are not regulated by law but only by law." Argument of the then-government I was at the time in the Lower House that there was a lot of delegation in tax practice and that this fact had to be recognised in the definition of delegation of the Constitution. The expression "by force of a law" does not appear anywhere else in the Constitution and is derived from the text of the corresponding Constitutional provision of 1815. You see, I looked way back in time. My inspiration for that very fundamental amendment, supported, for example, by Laurens Jan Brinkhorst of D66, was "no taxation without representation," i.e.: no tax without representation. This principle is an important part of our democratic rule of law. Another inspiration I drew from the book of former Second President Anne Vondeling, from 1976. "Second Chamber: Lamb of Lion" is the title of the book, about mission and method, power and powerlessness of the Dutch parliament. This house, too. According to Vondeling, the House of Representatives had to act as a lion instead of a lamb. I discussed this in detail, partly because in the Senate in the autumn of 2015 the motion Hoekstra c.s. was accepted unanimously. I co-signed that motion with the entire opposition. The aim was to make a separate political assessment of individual legislative proposals. I have the motion here. It ended as follows: "calls on the government', "which is a very nice one from Mr. Hoekstra's "to abstain in future', so "of such a link'. It was then about the Tax Plan and Box 3, a link that the CDA, also in this Chamber, was opposed to. Mr. Chairman. I'm criticizing the Council of State. The House of Representatives often operates politically, politically and in a hurry. With the Hills Act, we now have a punishment for that, unfortunately, and an extreme and excellent example. Then the First Chamber and the Council of State remain as beacons of care and monitoring of the quality of legislation. The Council of State itself is now operating at the penalty in our view sloppy and hasty. This is at the expense of the care and quality of the advice. On November 1 a request for advice from the cabinet and send a simple return note the same day, in the vein of "we already found it and we still find it," is simply contrary to the system. One sentence, done. You know what I'm talking about. I think this is a disturbing course of action. An increase of 1.1 billion for 1 million citizens, of which 568.00 are over 65 and 809.000, i.e. 80%, over 55 and 90% are over 50. That missile advice from the Council of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u198	Before you continue: Mr Van Weyenberg has a very short question, he has let me know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u199	We disagree on the content. That's not the point. I have a question about trust in institutions. Mr Van Rooijen, former Secretary of State, actually says here: you cannot trust that Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u200	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u201	I think that's a big deal. You're saying they're just doing gossip and drawing blindly in a day's time. Well, I know the Council of State as an extremely solid body. Once again, Mr Van Rooijen may not have delivered his opinion. But do we not also have the responsibility here, whatever we find, not to accuse the Independent Council of State of doing gossip? Because that is actually what Mr Van Rooijen says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u202	No, I have only noticed that the Council of State, following a request from the cabinet on 1 November last Monday, has the same day that you can see from the dates with an opinion. In that they say: as we have said before, the Hills Act is simply in breach of the system. Yeah, well, then you don't need any advice. They say: we do not look further at the consequences and the like. I think I can criticize that. Together with the First Chamber and the Second Chamber, the Council of State is the guardian of the quality and care of the legislation. As a democratically elected parliamentarians, I have the right to make critical remarks about the Council of State, as we sometimes do about the Court of Auditors. He's independent, too. Imagine if we were not allowed to say anything about the Council of State, the Court of Auditors and the Senate, when we found everything in this house about everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u203	Mr Van Rooijen can say what he wants. They did it in one day. That's fast; I'll admit that right away. But I know the Council of State as a club that wouldn't if they didn't think they could. So my question is: do you think the Council of State is a club that advises what it thinks and what you may or may not agree with, or do you actually say 'cause that is what you are implying here...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u204	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u205	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u206	Yes, of course. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u207	Or are you actually implying today that the Council of State has been put under pressure and advised irresponsiblely in the light of the wishes of the cabinet? You do not express that, but that is, of course, the sentiment on which you are trying to build.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u208	I'm not saying it. I won't say it either. You put words in my mouth that I have not spoken. I have just said what the task of the Council of State and the Supreme Court is, namely care and so on. I have noted that in this case, and I hope that is the exception to the rule, this has not been done carefully. That's the opinion I'm holding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u209	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u210	I do need to make a comment on this without blowing it up, because I do not think that is necessary at all. Of course, we have the instrument of the emergency opinion at the Council of State. In the last seven years, my experience has been that sometimes it worked if we tried it as a room. We have done this as a Chamber, and we have been able to do so in a manner that is consistent, if they knew what was going on in that respect. But my experience is that if they hadn't looked carefully at it in the past, they would have said: yes, you may want to, but you won't get it; we have to study it first. I therefore assume that if they come up with an urgent opinion, they will do so because they have already made that assessment a long time ago. Then they can put it on paper very quickly. For the rest, it seems particularly sensible to talk about the content of the opinion and whether or not you agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u211	Yes, of course. I will. But I want to say it, and I'm sticking to that. Mr. Chairman. There is now a separate bill on the abolition of the Hills Act. The Secretary of State insists on the proposal to deal with this law at the same time as the tax plan, so he has said so far so that the law can enter into force on 1 January. That's six weeks from now, isn't it? He's a week old and in six weeks he'll be in the Official Journal. Then one year later, on 1 January 2019, he becomes effective, because the provisional attacks in December next year have to come out with a little bit of a little bit of money, Mr Omtzigt is absolutely right about that. That law needs to be adopted today, otherwise you will not be able to add €20 to the provisional attack on a million citizens who have repaid debts. Mr. Chairman. We take great care of legislation and consider it more important than a year's delay. On a proposal from 50PLUS, the Finance Committee decided yesterday on a separate procedure for examining this bill. The whole committee, 25 men and women strong, supported my proposal yesterday by 13 votes in favour and 12 against. I don't think it's a soccer or hockey rash, but it's kind of a basketball rash. That is the first defeat of this coalition engine block of four, a first dividing line. In my opinion, the Finance Committee acted like a lion, if I may say so. Yesterday, there was little to see from an outstretched hand of the coalition. I will not comment on that further. It will not be surprising that we are asking the cabinet through this Minister to reconsider the separate draft bill from the discharge. I am very curious to see what the Minister will say in his reply, and we are all aware that there will be a second deadline from both sides. In any case, we do not want to tell you that the people who paid off their mortgage are going to be covered by the redemption penalty. This means an exception for all existing cases. If these people finally paid off their debt last year, after they had finished it for years, they did not know that they would get a fine instead of an exemption, a fine that builds up very slowly, but can also be a big blow in four years' time. I'd like a response from the Minister. Moreover, can the Secretary of State also indicate the consequences of the abolition of the Hills Act with regard to the surcharges? I asked you the same thing the day before yesterday. This is not in the explanatory memorandum. So it is not good legislation, because it should be in there. It's in the execution test, for God's sake. If you go farther into the paperwork, you can see that in very small typed schedules. That's how it's done in a hurry. I am going to a completely different subject, Mr President: government agreement and starting note on budgetary policy. The Rutte III cabinet is out of the starting blocks and the Minister has submitted the starting note. It has taken a record time to reach agreement on a coalition agreement in, I might add, Mr Nijboer also said it was the most favourable macroeconomic conditions since the beginning of this century. I would add that I fully share Mr Omtzig's concerns about the Brexit and what could happen in Europe, especially if all kinds of bad scenarios were to be seen for the European economy; he has already asked for it. Strong choices are being made, irrefutable: nearly 8 billion in additional expenditure and about 6 billion temporary relief. If we add these two outcomes together, the new cabinet will come up with an intensification of 14 billion in 2021. With this 14 billion, the budget space is largely eaten up, but not entirely. The CPB still calculates a surplus of 0,5% thanks to the effects of the agreement. The fact is that the government, with no pay-as-you-go effects, is falling ex ante in the minus with the EMU balance after '20. So the money is made up. Then the question is justified as to whether this 14 billion is really being used for major social problems in the Netherlands. For example, much has already been said and written about the reduction of charges. Is it something or is it nothing? I do not want to be too annoying, but abroad is the only category in this plan that gets structural relief without any strings attached. For abroad, the relief is not a cigar from its own box, but simply tight and structural. We would have liked to have seen this for the rest of the Netherlands, with a deserved catch-up for the elderly. The tariff reduction resulting from the limitation of the mortgage interest rate deduction for starters has been placed years ago as virtual in the future and has remained in place, but it is certainly not new. There is now, on balance, no real reduction in charges, at most a few billions spent in '19 and '20, and only temporarily. If the citizen gets something from this cabinet after all the crisis measures of the last ten years, it is indeed the extra expenditure, but additional public expenditure is largely not in the citizens' pocket, which Mr Van Dijck has already mentioned. No matter how you look at it, this is not the office of relief or of giving back what has been taken away, not for young and not for old. At the same time, however, the surplus is being spent, and as we have all learned, we can only spend the guilder once. Unfortunately, that also applies to the euro, unless your name is Mario Draghi. I agree with Mr Omtzigt on this point. We, as 50PLUS, could have spent the 14 billion I just mentioned, otherwise, that is clear. I will not go into the major fiscal proposals that we can expect in spring. I will just say a very brief word about dividend taxes and VAT. I have to say, however, that the increase in the rate in box 2 for family businesses have some who have already mentioned that we have been hit hard on our stomachs, because the argument for this is one thing that is wrong. The overall balance is not distorted, but it is maintained. Very briefly about VAT. The 50PLUS Group opposes this increase. In any case, for the lowest incomes, it is a burden increase that makes daily shopping more expensive and also medicines, for example. Especially for older people, the disposable income after the fixed burden is often so small that this is absolutely impossible. I refer to the story about the De Leij family in five generations who sat here in the gallery last week during the General Political Reviews when our group chairman told that story. Very briefly about the dividend tax. Last week, our group chairman tabled a motion, which we held, in which we asked: no abolition of the Hills Act and no abolition of the dividend tax. I referred to it earlier in a question to Mr Omtzigt. I remain curious about the final position of the CDA. It will be clear that 50PLUS wants to use the proceeds of not abolishing the dividend tax to cover the Hills Act, which, by the way, costs only 76 million until 2021. If our motion were to be adopted, there would be 1.3 billion left over from the dividend tax. We have a destination for this, for example to reduce the rate of the first disc even further for all taxpayers, working and non-working. Balanced purchasing power policy and non-indexation of pensions. It is no secret that 50PLUS is dissatisfied with the development of purchasing power as it has already been demonstrated by interruptions on my part, as shown by the Millions' Note and the coalition agreement. In the case of the same pension scheme, note that in the case of the same income source, the purchasing power development of pensioners has long been lagging behind that of workers. This is not a natural phenomenon, but a political choice, as is the age preference we have for the AOW, 65 years old. For workers, the reduction in working hours and the income-dependent combination reduction are increased by 11 billion in the last 10 years, a doubling. Over the same period, the budgetary impact of the old-age rebate has increased much less, by just 30%. The reduction in labour costs is now 18.5 billion. The Court of Auditors has just indicated this, and the Millions note says so. The reduction in labour costs, excluding labour costs, is already 18.5 billion. At the time, in the Senate, I had it calculated that this would have been a 5% reduction in all the discs for all taxpayers, a 5% reduction in the marginal wedge at once, rather than the labour discount. Then the old-age discount is very short. We welcome the increase. We're happy with the phasing-out. In the Senate, we had tabled a motion, Mr. Hoekstra remembers that; he also supported it because of that trapdoor that if you got €1 above the border you lost €1,300 net. What kind of fool ever made that up and let it last for so long? Anyway, that's settled now. In addition, the elderly are sneaking away with the forest load and less sneaking away via the abrupt winding down. The new old-age discount will be reduced at a much faster rate than the working discount, 15% instead of the working discount by 3%, and will stop at €48.000, while the working discount will only go to zero with a much higher income. A form of tax age discrimination! Where the two-tax tax had been a good time to abolish the forest tax, this bushover measure also remains in place. According to Finance, the forest tax is not abolished because "there is no cover for it in the government agreement'. In case some in this house have forgotten what the forest tax is: for the AOW'ers, the Grapperhaus-Law is not fully applied to the transition from the second to the third disc, yes, the father of the current Minister of Justice. As a result, pensioners are getting into that higher disk more and more quickly. That system stays intact. That means that the sneaky fiscalization of the AOW continues. For AOW'ers there will be a tribranch system, but that is poorly communicated in both the coalition agreement and the billing. You do not want to know how many questions we have been asked about this. Our constituents and many other citizens have been shocked. We want to give the cabinet the benefit of the doubt in this respect to our voters and to all citizens, but now explain exactly what it is like for the elderly. There is a two-tax for the workers and, fortunately, there is a three-tax for the no longer employed, but many people have the impression that there are actually only two disks left. There is also great uncertainty about income limits. I'll come back to that later. The Secretary of State said on Monday that the current well-known incomes are indications and I asked him to tell me what they are actually final. Mr. Chairman. I would just like to say a few words about public compensation or not being compensated by the government of the elderly if pensions are not indexed. I quote the Millions Note: "Many people look towards the government to compensate for a decline in the purchasing power of older people in the event of non-indexation by pension funds. The question is to what extent this should always be the primary task of the government. The government determines the rules governing pension funds. Non-indexing is the result of developments in the financial markets and investment decisions of the pension funds concerned." That's what the previous cabinet writes. Nothing about the fact that the cabinet itself lays down in the financial review framework the rules on the basis of which it is not indexed. So one pretends that there is no such thing, when we have established it here, and says about consequences: "We are not talking about it, so we do not have to compensate for its consequences either. We do do so occasionally, because if the workers are making significant progress, then of course we cannot sell to politics, just before the spring elections, that purchasing power is falling apart. So then we're gonna fix it, so at least they're gonna stay at zero on average." On average at zero means that the AOW'ers and AOW'ers with a small pension improve, fortunately, because of the indexation and that the others are in a bad way. And Mr Omtzigt, that is already in people with an AOW and €20,000 or €25,000. They're on -2 and the workers, comparatively, are on +5. Mr President, I see that I have to finish. At least if I want time for round two. We think this is the world upside down. We will therefore correct the biggest tax deformities with five amendments to the Tax Plan. What we think of the ftk, which is applicable to the current pension system, can be read out in the Van Rooijen initiative proposal, on which we will soon have a full exchange of views. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u212	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf, I shall suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u213	I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u214	Thank you, Madam President. I am waiting for Mr Van Dijck to sit down. Congratulations to the Minister and the Secretary of State for a fine challenge. To be honest, I had written on my note to the Minister "a fine challenge, exclamation point" and to the Secretary of State: exclamation point, replaced by question mark. That has nothing to do with the person, but Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, that's one thing. But: all confidence in the person. We're gonna talk. A compliment to Mr Sneller. Nice story. I was sorry we weren't allowed to interrupt. I noticed that with other colleagues, but it will all be fine. Then I'll get right to my first point, because he said we have a good starting position. I doubt that. Mr Nijboer makes it even more colourful by saying: there is no better starting point, financially. Madam President, I doubt that. I found Mr Bruins much more realistic in this respect. He quoted the beautiful Bible story of Viceroy Joseph. He understood that in the fat years, in the years that went well, you had to fill the wheat sheds for the period that would go bad, the period after that. That's what got me thinking. Does this minister now want to look like King Joseph or Wouter Bos? Because in September 2008 we also had this kind of meeting here, with, as we do now, a positive budget balance, falling public debt, rising employment and falling unemployment. We have been proudly told: we have cut back in the past, we are now reaping the fruits of it, things are going well and we can now benefit from the labour. I quoted King Joseph in the debates when we were going to cut back, under Rutte I and Rutte II. Mr Van Weyenberg knows that and Mr Omtzigt also knows that. Then we were blamed for cutting back when things were already bad. That's stupid, we know as economists. You have to cut back the moment it goes well and spend it when it goes bad. Then I said, "If no one listens to those wise lessons of King Joseph, it will never work." Now we are on the other side and I note that in 2021 public debt will be higher than in 2008 if these plans come true. Thinking it's going well, but not ready for the next crisis. A shelf life that's negative: 3 billion. We agree, the vast majority of this Chamber does, that 5 billion more should be invested in defence. 3 + 5 = 8, so actually there's already a shelf life hole of 8 billion. I am not talking about healthcare expenditure, which the Council of State also questions, and the stories of Omtzigt and others about the Brexit, the ECB and the euro. Then again, the point that the figures are based on high growth. I've been mathing it out for a while. The Council of State says 2%. I do not want to improve the Council of State, especially after my interruption just now, but if you calculate it precisely, it is 2,23%, I think, while we have often said here that you have to rely on the cautious scenario and not count at the top, because then the chance of setbacks is greater than the chance of windfalls. I would therefore like to ask this Minister, in all kindness, who is responsible for budgetary policy, what is the robustness of his policy? He may not be able to do much about this himself, because I do not think he was involved in the negotiations, but yes, he has accepted this position and is therefore responsible for this policy. Is this policy indeed, why not be cautious? Mr President, my second point. Questions have been asked about relief. I can be brief about that. I have the same questions. 6.5 billion relief, but 3.1 billion is in the basic path, so actually it's only 3.4. Then my argument would be that after 2021 we have 15 billion in burden increase: 7 billion already in the basic path, 3 billion needed for sustainability and 5 billion needed for defence. That must either come from the burden increase or from cuts. My question is: what is the Minister going to do? Mr. Chairman. Much has been said about the dividend tax. I believe the Minister has received all the interruptions. Let me repeat my most important question: what is the expected effectiveness? I don't expect that to be proven, but I hope to get a better view of the channel through which it happens. Will there be a final levy for a number of countries? And if so, for which countries? Or are there countries with a lower rate than ours? Or are there completely different channels? What's the evidence of the whole story? If you're spending 1.4 billion, you have to ask yourself if it's effective and if you expect it to be more effective than alternative instruments. In short, we're not necessarily against it, but we're still looking for the right story. Then the one-earner. We are going to ask the Secretary of State about this in detail during the plenary session of the Tax Plan. He thought: nice, finally a tax question. But no, I ask the question to the Minister, who is not primarily about this, but is the Minister of the Ministry and is ultimately responsible for taxation. I ask that because Senator Hoekstra was very much in agreement with the Schalk motion on reducing the gap for single-earners. He agreed that when the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs sent a letter to the First Chamber about that the Rutte II cabinet did not intend to do more than it had done, and that was not much, we also know that he agreed that the First Chamber then sent a letter to the Ministry because she felt that the motion should be carried out better. Well, Minister, now you're in the position where you can make this happen, so how happy are you going to make yourself? What possibilities do you see? And how are you going to encourage your Secretary of State to close that gap as quickly as possible? Mr. Chairman. Finally, because my time has almost passed, and I am trying to keep to it. The Hills Act is bumping into us. You can have all kinds of substantive discussions with each other, but you have told the people every time over the last seven years: this is it. It's got some pretty painful measures in it. One of those painful measures is that you have to redeem 100%. I think that's a stupid measure. I also suggested alternatives at the time. You don't tell tenants either: you have to build a massive power. That's actually what makes you mandatory. I'd be happy to reduce the tax deduction to 0%. Anyway, there's that law, so that's what you have to do. But then you say, if you're left with 0% debt, you're going to pay taxes. People thought they wouldn't have to pay taxes anymore. Figures show that it is not so bad at the end of the cabinet period, but only 10% of that law is still active. So can we get the entire financial picture, including in terms of purchasing power, in case that law is 100% active? And is the Minister willing to look at all the rules on mortgages? It is a lot of patchwork that only consultants benefit from, see also the comments of the Council of State. It's become a jungle of rules. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I wish the rulers a great deal of wisdom in their work and in the many challenges they face. It's a very nice job to do. I certainly wish them God's blessing on their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u215	Mr Nijboer, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u216	I liked the story of Joseph's grain barns. I am curious to see how Mr Dijkgraaf is looking at bringing forward the tax relief of nearly 6 billion by this cabinet. Later, after 2021, it will be issued again. He warns that it may not be right in the near future, but I do not know what he thinks of this as a cyclical economist and a macro-economicist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u217	Well, gradually you have to be careful to push the purchasing power too much when you look at the decline in unemployment. But I don't think we're at that point yet, so I can imagine some incentive. The purchasing power figures are not yet such that they are getting out of hand. But you have to be careful. My concern is therefore primarily not on the purchasing power side, but on the burden of labour, because I think the burden on labour is simply too high. By the way, this cabinet has also done a nice trick by introducing a flat tax but by now making all the schemes dependent on income, making the marginal charges almost as high as they have been so far. So it could still be an interesting question to the cabinet how this could be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u218	And now your answer to Mr Nijboer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u219	But that's the answer. My concern is mainly on the funding side, on the shelf life side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u220	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u221	I am simply asking for the difference between expenditure and revenue, of course. Mr Dijkgraaf refers on the one hand to defence and says: watch out for expenditure, because things may get worse. On the other hand, the cabinet of course puts forward a tremendous relief, after which the bitter pill follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u222	Yeah, but my point is mostly this. There's already 7 billion burdens in the base path. The sustainability still requires billions. Of course, that has everything to do with this: you're moving the bill forward. And if you're gonna take down defense, I think you've got an open account of 15 billion. That's quite a bill you're going to transfer to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u223	Thank you very much, Mr Dijkgraaf. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u224	Mr President, thank you. Are we gonna hang in there a little bit? Beware: after me Baudet arrives, with twenty minutes. So I'd enjoy it if I were you. First a compliment to Mr Sneller, who made a wonderful speech, from his heart. That was very appealing to me. Let me start with a compliment. The budget is tight, public debt and unemployment are falling, inflation is low and economic growth is projected at 3.3% this year and 3.1% next year. All this according to the figures of Friday's start note. DENK compliments the Netherlands on these beautiful figures. We Dutch have overcome the crisis by putting our hands on it together. Sometimes thanks to measures taken by the previous cabinet, but also often despite the bad measures taken by the previous cabinet. It looks generally rosy, but on parts it can and should be better. It is against this background that I express my contribution, because DENK thinks it can be even better, DENK thinks it can be fairer and DENK thinks it can be more just. Mr. Chairman. Let me start my contribution with actuality. In the present time of economic prosperity there is enough money for everyone's needs but not enough for everyone's greed. I come to the revelations of the Paradise Papers. What does the Minister think of these revelations about mass tax avoidance? The Netherlands is one of the biggest tax havens in the world, although I understand that a motion has been adopted that we should never say that about ourselves here. Mr. Chairman. Why is this possible? The Dutch citizen doesn't understand. I told you yesterday at the settlement. Last week we talked to 150 Members of Parliament and 24 members of the government about the 100 million-dollar turn-over to community nursing. That while an official in Rotterdam alone gives out 169 million dollars in this case to the foreign company Procter & Gamble. The DENK Group doesn't get it, the Dutch don't get it and the SMEs don't get it. I spoke to some of them yesterday. They also wanted to have that official's number, because they wanted to make a deal like that. So perhaps the Minister will be able to exchange it later. They too want to pay less tax, because fair sharing also means fair paying taxes. The support base under the Dutch tax system is eroded if the rich can massively evade the tax. Mr. Chairman. We have a cabinet from the right with the Bible in hand. It seemed appropriate to me to come up with the demands for a good budget. I would like a response from the Minister to the following commands. Commandment number one is: you will share honestly. We have a nice economic growth. However, this economic growth does not end up in the citizens' pockets. Let's take a closer look at the numbers. Economic growth of 3.3% in 2017 and of 3.1% in 2018 only leads to an increase in purchasing power of 1.1% for citizens. Of course, that's a bad relationship. On the other hand, we are giving 1.4 billion to foreign countries in the form of abolishing dividend taxes, without any justification, or as the Christian Union colleagues call it: development cooperation for American and British governments. I noticed in the General Political Reviews that Buma, Pechtold and even Dijkhoff were honest about the uncertainty with which this mega subsidy was provided. Rutte immediately started whining about the location climate. Lubach called that a schwalbe: as soon as he is attacked, he immediately lays down and weeps a little. I wonder what arguments the Minister has put together for this choice. The DENK Group has reservations about this: if there is insufficient evidence to show where the 1.4 billion is going, I cannot agree with the budget. Commandment number 2 is: you will demonstrate the usefulness of public spending. Mr Sneller has already spoken about this. Citizens and companies pay taxes. They have the right to see what happens to their money, whether it is spent usefully or disappears into bottomless policy pits. In this context, it is good to know that every year the General Court finds that some 3 to 5 billion of the national spending cannot be adequately accounted for. That's gotta be better. How do you demonstrate the usefulness and necessity of public spending? Not everything used to be better, but there used to be a nice accountability system. It was called VBTB: from policy budget to policy accountability. We got answers to the three W questions: what do we want to achieve at a rich level with the policy, what do we do for it and what does it yield? Overall, performance data were needed in the form of indicators and core numbers. Failure to achieve the desired results could lead to policy adjustment and critical questions to the minister who failed to meet his or her targets. It seems that the ministers did not like being dealt with on their targets. What do you do? You're asking a committee to come up with another system. So in 2012 we got the Systemically Responsible Begging. The annual reports became mainly financial documents, with less policy information and less performance data: perhaps beneficial for ministers, but somewhat shady for taxpayers. That is why we are asking: is the Minister prepared to compare the current system with the old one? I am considering a motion on this point. Commandment number 3 is: in good times you will not hang lazy back in the chair. The economy is finally doing well: there is a surplus of 3.5 billion in 2018 and public debt is falling to 54% of GDP in 2018. You would say "peanuts," but still previous Cabinets have saddled every ordinary Dutchman with €25,000 debt. You heard me right! Fortunately, unemployment first falls to 355,000, but in 2022 it rises again. But DENK would like to warn you. There are a number of macroeconomic risks. For example, the government agreement has suddenly created a sustainability deficit of 3 billion. Why waste the pot instead of creating a buffer, for example in the form of a cyclical fund or a new fund economic structural strengthening? Another risk is the EMU balance. This is 0.5% in 2018, but it appears to be largely cyclical. Mr Omtzigt has already said so. The structural EMU balance is -0.7%, i.e. below the minimum value of -0.5%, as stated on page 9 of the Start note. Isn't this very vulnerable? The Council of State also warns about this, as well as about the further deterioration of the sustainability balance. The Council is talking about a modest margin in relation to the European minimum requirement. The Council wonders why a cautious scenario has not been chosen rather than a very optimistic scenario of years of growth of 2%. Now there's a greater chance of setbacks. I would like to hear from the Minister why this scenario has been chosen, in which possible future disappointments are already embedded. In general: should we not look for new signs of a new crisis? How's the Brexit gonna work out? How are we going to stop the ECB buy-back policy? And what will be the outcome of that? In addition, the same kind of bubbles appear as in 2007. We see more liquidity, higher house prices, increasingly riskier loans and financial constructions. I have asked the questions and in this case I would also like to point out the leverage ratio for the banks, in plain Dutch the reserve banks have on loans granted by them. Is it true that we have to understand page 34 of the coalition agreement in such a way that the cabinet is going to reduce that reserve from 4% to 3%, while the previous cabinet wanted to increase it to 6%? Why should this happen? Did we not learn enough from the 2008 credit crisis? A donkey generally doesn't hit the same stone twice. I'd like a response from the Minister. Is it right that I speak through your lines, Mr Van Weyenberg? Then command number 4: You will increase all wages by 3.5%. Kind of a spicy one. That's what I thought. But it's possible. The president of DNB, the IMF, various economists, the trade union movement and even VNO-NCW call for higher wages. Former Minister Dijsselbloem also found this. He had even become a member of the FNV, he said in The World Running Door. Very unusual, of course. My question to the two directors is whether they are also members of the FNV or the CNV, so that they can also contribute to the increase in those wages. But what does the Minister think of a new social agreement on which the social partners and the government agree jointly in the tripartite consultations? One of these agreements could be to agree a national wage increase of 3.5% with a minimum of €1,000. I am considering a motion on this point. Then we go to command number 5: you will do as you say and say what you do. Last Friday we suddenly received the start note that was suddenly added to the agenda of the AFB on Tuesday. And what were we reading there? At least a big disappointment on page 7. Indeed, as a number of colleagues have already said, there is no reduction in charges of 6.5 billion, as the new cabinet suggested to the Chamber last week; no, there is an overall increase in charges of 3.4 billion over the period 2018-2021. In particular, the passing on of the measures taken by the previous cabinet, for which this cabinet takes responsibility, and the higher healthcare contributions were not taken into account by the cabinet last week. Why has the Rutte III cabinet not been honest? I'd like a response from the Minister. On page 3 of the start note there is another disappointment. In the years 2019, 2020 and 2021, unemployment rises sharply, from 343.000 to 383.000 as a result of this cabinet policy. This too was not reported last week. Is this correct, Minister? Can I have a comment on this, too? Why are these important things sent to the Chamber one afternoon, hidden in a thick pile of paper? Mr. Chairman. There's no other way. That appeared to me in the last commandment, command number 6: you will take an example to DENK. DENK is the champion of public finances, according to the CPB's credit transfer. We were the only parties to have a budget surplus. The other parties were all short. So there are now three institutions that advocate building a buffer in good times: The Netherlands Bank, the Council of State and the group of DENK. This coalition of financial solidity therefore calls on you to create a substantial buffer while still possible. We should learn lessons from the 2008 debt crisis. We should listen to DNB, the Council of State and DENK and strive for a structural budget surplus of at least 1% of GDP combined with a sustainability surplus. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. In the end, we will have to say yes or no to the Millions' Note and the Finance Budget. As the DENK Group indicated last week during the General Political Reviews, there are major objections to certain parts of the budget. This is, of course, about the abolition of dividend taxation, the reduction of corporate tax, the increase in shopping tax and the continuation of the high level of personal risk in the care sector. Although some elements, such as the dividend tax, are only formally on the agenda in the coming years, we would like to send a clear signal now. We await the answer to our questions and will then consider whether we can agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u225	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u226	Whatever cabinet Mark Rutte compiles, the revenue for the government and thus the burden for the citizens increase. This was true for his first cabinet with the CDA; it was true for his second cabinet with PvdA. And after the Kunduz chord also involved D66 and GroenLinks, Hans Spekman's leveling party came over and as a icing on the cake a temporary VAT increase from 19% to 21%. All this took place during the biggest financial crisis since the 1930s. Exactly the wrong policy at exactly the wrong time. I am now showing a graph of ING, which clearly shows how negative this has been for our economy and how we have been structurally lagging behind compared to our neighbouring countries. I can have her copied and distributed if there's a need. The government's share of the Dutch economy has grown twice as fast under the reign of Mark Rutte as the purchasing power of the Dutch. The burden and premium burden was 35% in 2010 and is now heading towards 40%. Mark Rutte, the big redistributor. Even now that the crisis is largely over, these measures are not being reversed. No, the argument for the upcoming increase in charges, a total of 3.4 billion cumulatively over four years, is that it is necessary to increase the burden now because things are getting better. Whether it's nice or bad weather, Mark Rutte always needs an umbrella. Some measures simply cannot be explained. This was also evident in today's debate. One example is the abolition of the dividend tax. That costs us a total of 1.4 billion, while the ordinary, hardworking Dutch people Rutte always talks about have nothing to do with that. It's a gift for foreign investors and multinationals. FVD wants to reduce the tax burden on Dutch SMEs andzzp'ers by using this 1.4 billion to reduce the increase in the box 2 tariff. Entrepreneurial Netherlands really needs that. I would also like to ask the Minister whether the 3.3 billion other burdens in 2019, in Table 4, are expected additional costs resulting from the increase in the rate in box 2. Mr. Chairman. Almost on the day off two years ago, on 24 November 2015, the First Chamber unanimously adopted a motion: "Considers that the government has linked, among other things, a separate bill on box 3 to the Tax Plan 2016 bill, which also starts in 2017; notes that these are two separate legislative proposals; notes that it deprives the First Chamber of the possibility to finalise a separate political opinion on both independent legislative proposals; Notes that this is clearly not the state-law tradition of recent decades; notes that this creates an undesirable precedent for the future, calls on the Government to refrain from such a link in future." A splendid motion, in which the First Chamber notes that the government is rapidly submitting all kinds of tax measures to a large extent so that no one can seriously debate them and call on the government to stop doing so. And by whom was this motion filed? By Senator Wopke Hoekstra of the CDA. Happy for that, but now that the same Hoekstra has been sworn in as Minister of Finance, he himself merges all kinds of tax measures into the Tax Plan, which must be approved by this house quickly, after which the First Chamber can still only swallow or suffocate. Is he, as a minister, going to live up to his previous intention to break open the bundled Tax Plan? We'd love to hear his reaction. The core of our criticism is that taxes should be reduced and charges and premiums should be reduced. In the second term, we are proposing a series of concrete and feasible alternatives that we believe VVD and CDA, or at least their constituents, should be sensitive to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-7.u227	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister and the Secretary of State will respond tomorrow.
