ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment. Speaking time is four minutes per group. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this month, President Trump announced that the United States will cancel the Paris climate agreement. This decision was described by the Secretary of State and most of the Members of Parliament as a historic mistake. Some members even barely kept it dry. The left media were also upset for days. In the news coverage it was mainly emphasized what a pitch black day it was and with the state propaganda of the NOS it was completely furious. There it was reported that this action by Trump will lead to increasingly extreme weather with crop losses, the extinction of animal and plant species and rising sea levels by melting the ice caps, allowing cities and countries to flood. Fortunately, due to the netflixization almost no one takes the state propaganda on PvdA-1 seriously anymore. More and more people see that this is pure nonsense. What has been agreed in concrete terms in the Paris Agreement and what are the consequences of these agreements? This is constantly hidden in the mainstream media and if you make a prize-winning documentary about it, it should not be broadcast. In the Paris agreement, it was agreed that the Earth could be warmed up by up to two degrees in 2100. With whom, would be my first question. With Our Lord, with Mother Nature? No, with the IPCC. You know, the fraudulent climate club, which has already been established that climate models are not good. What's causing this? This is because the Paris Agreement imposes specific restrictions on CO emissions on countries. That leads to bizarre scenes. For example, the report on Trump's withdrawal from the climate agreement came out on the same day that the European steel industry sent a letter of fire about the new, far too stringent environmental standards. The result will be that factories and jobs in the steel industry will be eliminated by cheaper imports of steel from China, which is much more pollutingly manufactured. The demand for steel remains unchanged. In fact, it will only increase, because those windmills of yours are not built from environmentally sustainable paper but from tons of steel and concrete. In short, the climate agreement will lead us to impose higher burdens on our own industry and people, while their jobs will disappear to countries like China where we can certainly continue to eject until 2030. They do so, because together with India and Indonesia, 1,736 new coal plants will be built there in the coming years. 1,736 new power stations, already thousands of them! Moreover, this will impose a higher burden on our people, also because every year, from 2020 onwards, 100 billion of development aid will have to be transferred under the climate fund. The Secretary of State could not wait to symbolically immediately double the contribution to the IPPC. But what about the contribution to the annual 100 billion from the Climate Fund? Will the Netherlands fill the hole that drops America? If so, how many? How long will the Netherlands continue to use this symbolism policy while it knows that the truth, however uncomfortable, is that climate change is of all times and that the current climate policy of subsidising outdated techniques and increasing burdens on polluting industries in developed countries such as the Netherlands and the US will do nothing to counteract the supposed global warming over the next 83 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. President Trump withdraws from the Paris Accord. It's a highly unwise decision. Climate change doesn't go by decree, even if your name is Trump and you're president of the United States. Climate change is already under way. We see not only melting glaciers in the North Pole or major cracks in the Arctic, but also major droughts in Africa and the Middle East and floods in coastal areas. "The Netherlands deltaland" will certainly notice the rising sea level, so sticking your head in the sand doesn't change the facts. This applies to the PVV, who would like to throw the chord in the trash and that certainly applies to Trump. The fact that he withdraws is, of course, a setback, but the climate agreement does not begin and does not end with the US either. More than 190 countries have signed the Paris Agreement, including China and Russia. These countries did so because of the social objective, but also because of very well understood self-interest. Green growth creates new opportunities for the economy, innovation and jobs. There are already more people working in the clean sector in the US than in the entire oil and gas industry. It is now important that Europe, together with China and India, takes the lead. This means not only good cooperation, but also that Europe must show ambition. In the run-up to Bonn, for example, I would like to ask the Secretary of State for national contributions. D66 is pleased that the Netherlands and Europe have expressed their support for the Paris Agreement very quickly and very clearly and that there can be no question of renegotiating the agreement or of weakening it. For the time being, the US will simply be a member of the agreement. They won't be able to get out for a couple of years. As far as D66 is concerned, this means that they will just stick to the agreements as long as they are still members, for example on climate finance. What developments does the Secretary of State see in this regard? How can the other signatory Member States also help to keep the US on this point? It also means that the US will remain at the table at the climate conferences for the time being. I wonder what role they will play there. In any case, they must not become a blocking factor. In what way can we prevent that? Many states, cities, businesses and citizens in the US are firmly behind the climate agreement. The Secretary of State will have seen that for herself when she was there. It is very nice that we keep them well connected. That is why I find it extremely positive that the Secretary of State has reached California so quickly. The "We Are Still In" coalition from the US has also reported to the IPCC. Trump said I'm not doing this for Paris. I'm doing this for Pittsburgh. Pittsburgh has informed me: let me have the Paris agreement. I therefore have a question for the Secretary of State. To what extent is it possible to seek permanent or official cooperation between Europe and this coalition? Next year, the Netherlands has a beautiful icon: Nijmegen has been elected European Green Capital. How can we use that? The exchange of knowledge is already taking place within Europe. Can we also connect with the cities in the US that want to move on? The US has a wealth of scientific knowledge on climate change and its consequences. Trump has shown that he would rather lose that information than be rich. That could pose a threat to the continuation of research. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to strengthen cooperation between Dutch and American science in the field of climate change, perhaps also through the funds available in Europe for research? What role could the new climate institute play in this? With America moving back on the world stage, Europe, together with China and India, must take the lead in countering global warming, along with all the countries and with the regions, cities and businesses in the US that do want to take advantage of the potential for green growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u4	I hear the D66 colleague very often mention cooperation between Europe and China. It also received the letter of fire from the steel industry. I've just outlined what's going to happen to that steel industry. It is moving to China, one of the countries that will have to do nothing at all until 2030 and then take full advantage of the fund's 100 billion grants. Does D66's colleague seem like a good partner? It's gonna cost us our jobs, but she says we're gonna fill the hole. How does she see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u5	China is one of the countries with the highest CO emissions. I am glad that, through his question, Mr Van Aalst indirectly acknowledges that something is going on. If we want to tackle it, we will have to work with countries like China where there is still a lot of growth going on. We will have to ensure that this growth in China takes place in a more climate-neutral way than it is now. Of course, China will only do that if we set an example ourselves. We cannot say to the Chinese: you have to solve it all, we do nothing. Does this mean you're just gonna have to take measures to get rid of pollution? No. That is why we have made special agreements in the European trade system to ensure that the sectors which are really subject to international competition, such as the steel sector, do not just move towards pollution displacement. It doesn't help anyone, not even the environment. So D66 isn't in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u6	I would like to stress once again that China is not going to do anything until 2030. The only thing we do with our climate agreement is unnecessarily burdening people in the Netherlands, with extra taxes everywhere, to finance the steel industry in China. Then we are destroying our own sector here at the expense of all kinds of jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u7	I'm sorry, but that's a real myth. The European trading system specifically excludes a number of sectors. They are granted free rights and have all kinds of specific arrangements, precisely to ensure that the steel that is actually produced here relatively environmentally efficient is not simply moved. It doesn't help anyone. The PVV really sketches a myth here, because that is totally out of the question. In fact, there are a variety of facilities in the ETS. They are even so spacious that you can wonder if they are not too spacious and if this is necessary. The CO price in the ETS is very low. This is because a lot of free rights have been distributed to prevent the situation that the PVV outlines and of course no one wants to take place. Let us ensure that we continue to invest in innovation in these sectors so that they remain competitive. I don't know that China is doing anything. I don't recognize it at all. China has closed 1,000 coal mines. China invests 400 billion in renewable energy. So China does a lot too. And rightly so, because China also emits and grows a lot. That is precisely why this cooperation is extremely important, rather than helping us into the world in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. Trump has chosen to get the U.S. out of the climate treaty. That's his right, but it's a big mistake. It's a violation of international agreements. It is good news that the cabinet reaffirms that the Paris objectives must be met. But the advisors of the cabinet, the WRR and the Council of State confirm once again that we are not going to make it through the current policy. That's a very strange contradiction. Let us not delay or reduce our own efforts by pointing to others, but rather increase them. That's just because European countries don't seem to be much better than America. Europe is also failing to comply with the climate agreements. Just look at our own European efforts to reduce the additional reduction of 77 million tonnes of CO by 2030. It goes to 7.7 million tons. Let us therefore look above all at what we as the Netherlands can do. As a major energy and raw materials consumer, the Netherlands has a leading role to play in the fight against climate change. But what do we see? Our government continues to support the fossil and heavily polluting industry, either through low VAT rates, either through large consumer discounts for energy or through direct subsidies consisting of non-taxation of external costs. All this is motivated by short-term economic interests. The Netherlands must get to work, but that is not a threat to our economy. On the contrary, the circular economy round table indicated that there are sufficient possibilities. The transition from animal to plant proteins offers a great opportunity. The Netherlands is leading solar energy according to TU Delft. Mr. Chairman. The climate is more than just CO saving and energy policy. Climate policy must keep our planet alive, and therefore it is also about the restoration of biodiversity, nature, careful handling of our raw materials, recycling and our consumption. So we can no longer keep sacred houses up. I'll get back to you in a minute. So let's do more and let the US know that getting out has consequences. If the US is going to produce without taking Parisian principles into account in the price of its products, American producers have de facto a huge cost advantage and thus a competitive advantage. That cannot be the intention: be more polluting and cheaper. So we can see if we can impose a climate tax on American products through border adjustment taxes. That is an instrument of the WTO, the World Trade Organization. Ironically, maybe that's an incentive, it's also the instrument Trump wants to use against Mexico, for example. With this instrument of the WTO, we can charge very targeted tariffs on polluting products from the US in order to level the playing field. "Good taxes" call Republicans that. The fact that the United States is getting out of the car makes one thing very clear. The fact that the US is giving itself a free pass to continue with destructive fossil industries once again shows that international law needs to be strengthened. One of the ways to do that is to criminalize large-scale destruction of the environment as a crime against humanity, simply called "ecocide." I'm rounding up. We would like to ask the Secretary of State for three things. Firstly, is she prepared to investigate how the Netherlands can use border adjustment taxes to maintain the level playing field, which is now clearly on the road? Secondly, is it prepared to examine how the Netherlands can help to put ecocide in a legal framework? My party has previously tabled motions on this matter. Finally, the PBL published a report entitled "What does the Paris agreement mean for Dutch long-term climate policy?" Is the Secretary of State prepared to have the Planning Office also look at what we should do in concrete terms over the next 12 and 24 months and then publish a report called "What does the Paris Agreement mean for the Dutch short-term climate policy?" We are considering tabling motions on these three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. Although I regret the reason, I do find it extraordinary that for the third time in a row the Chamber is discussing how to improve climate policy. That indicates the urgency and necessity. The news that, thanks to President Trump, the United States withdrew from the Paris climate agreement resulted in a storm of indignation. The fact that Trump doesn't seem to care about the damage that climate change causes and will cause is scandalous. But now that we've gained the fear and expressed our anger towards Trump, it's time to look at ourselves again. I would rather ask: what are the Netherlands and the EU themselves doing to achieve the Paris objectives? I can give you the answer: unfortunately not nearly enough. If we emit 400 gigaton of CO worldwide from now on, the concentration in the air is already so high that we have a 50% chance of going over 1.5°C. The world emits about 40 gigatons of CO a year. If we continue in the same way, it will happen in ten years. Does the Secretary of State agree that the Netherlands and the EU are not yet doing enough and will have to do more to fill the gap left by the US? The time of no commitment is over. Yesterday, the news came that we are most likely not going to achieve the 6,000 MW of wind energy on land and that housing corporations may not reach their 2020 targets until 2030. We need binding measures in the short term, otherwise we will not achieve the objectives arising from the Urgendavonnis. Urgenda's recently updated vision for 100% renewable energy in 2030 shows that it can, if we show courage and ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u11	There's been an interruption. I was just looking for an appropriate point in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u12	That's about to happen, Mr. Chairman. The report also shows that it gives us a lot of jobs. We are curious to find the Secretary of State of Urgenda's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u13	This climate agreement brings with it 1 billiard of burden increases, resulting in 0.15°C. Now I hear my colleague from GroenLinks say she wants to fill Trump's hole. How many billions of burdens is GroenLinks still willing to sacrifice for this climate problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u14	I have previously interrupted Mr Van Aalst in a debate on the costs of climate change. Stern's report shows how many billions it costs if climate change continues. I would once again advise Mr Van Aalst to look at this report and see these costs in that light.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u15	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u16	The Secretary of State's letter states that there are no indications that other countries will follow the example of the US. That's good to read, but is that really true? For example, Russia seems willing to renegotiate the agreement. Can the Netherlands make every effort to keep each country proactively within the climate agreement through diplomacy? The US will no longer contribute to the Green Climate Fund. This concerns us. This makes it much more difficult for developing countries to achieve their climate objectives. If there is a gap there, developing countries may also have doubts about participation in the climate agreement. Can the Netherlands step in to close this gap and encourage other countries to do the same? In response to Trump's withdrawal, the Secretary of State made a nice and important gesture by providing additional financial support to the IPCC. It is very important that his important work can continue. Compliments for this quick action! However, I think there is still more room for action. I see the letter of intent together with California as a nice beginning. Can the Netherlands make such deals with other states or cities? The Secretary of State also refers to the Under2 Coalition partnership. Can it mention a number of concrete successes of this coalition? And how could these be scaled up further? It is extremely unfortunate and regrettable that Trump has abandoned the climate agreement, but that is only an encouragement to me to get to work with even more ambition. I'm sure the Secretary of State agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Chairman. Without climate change, we might still be cavemen. Although, as an archaeologist, I prefer to speak of "hunter collectors." Climate change has caused a lot of misery in the past, but sometimes also a lot of good. For example, climate change in the area of the Fertile Crescent caused more cereals to grow. Slowly, hunter-gatherers found out that they could also sow those grains themselves. That's how agriculture was born. 99% of the time that we as humanity are here on Earth, we have lived on hunting and gathering, but as we went into farming, people gradually had more time for new inventions. So climate change has brought a lot of good, but also a lot of misery. Civilizations that were wiped out because their habitat was dried or extremely wet. Wars, hunger, a lot of violence; they are caused by climate change. Climate change can therefore cause both good and very much bad, has brought bloom, but also ruin. In the third century AD, the Roman Empire was incredibly drought-ridden, causing a lot of tension. The poorest and most vulnerable groups were often the victims of this. Luckily, we're not cavemen anymore. Fortunately, we can now agree on how to deal with climate change, which is partly caused by the people themselves this time. Fortunately, we are no longer cave dwellers and we can agree on how we can best deal with the consequences of climate change, which will be very profound for large groups of people and especially for vulnerable groups. Unfortunately, Trump does not comply with these agreements. The SP is in favour of making sure that this climate change flourishes, as has happened before when people went into climate change. Let us make sure that the people who are likely to be hit hardest today, in the Netherlands but also internationally, do not suffer. That is why we want national and international solidarity. Questions have already been asked about the Climate Fund. That is more about the international side: how do we ensure that people who are the first to suffer from climate change do not? However, we would very much like to do so at national level. I see a question coming, so maybe this is the time to take a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u18	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u19	I'm just thinking. I also saw Mrs Beckerman in a debate the other day. At that time it was indeed mainly about the people in the Netherlands who were severely affected by this Climate Fund. We were just talking about the 100 billion in this Climate Fund. Do I hear Mrs Beckerman say that she is particularly committed to solidarity with people in China rather than with our people who have to bring that amount together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u20	I think I was talking about national and international solidarity. Last week, at my initiative, this Chamber debated the desires and burdens of climate policy. At that time, the SP said that we do not believe that these burdens should be shared unilaterally by households, that they should be distributed fairly. We also believe that the desire for climate change can also provide a fair distribution of desires. I gave examples of how this is not the case at the time, but I could. So indeed, we in the Netherlands choose solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u21	I hear my colleague say that we talked about it last week and found that the burden falls disproportionately on the same group of people. If we are to fill the 100 billion, Trump's hole, how does Mrs Beckerman feel about her children and grandchildren? They're broke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u22	This is a very good thing, because I have a motion in preparation for the second time to ensure that we are going to prevent or remedy this energy poverty where it already is. It is nice to see that we are already getting support for this from the PVV. Mr Van Aalst is laughing. It's nice that I was able to cheer him up after all. This is my most important point. We can choose. We're not cavemen anymore. We can choose how to deal with climate change. We can choose if we're gonna help people get into trouble or suffocate them. We can choose to divide the lusts fairly or to divide the lusts crookedly. The SP chooses fair distribution. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u23	Mr. Chairman. The world faces great challenges. We go from 7 billion to 10 billion people. There's gonna be more prosperity. There is a need for good food, more water, clean water. Energy needs are about to increase. And then there's warming. All these challenges make us realize that we are on the same planet together. So we have to do it together. President Trump's decision to withdraw from the climate agreement did not come out of the blue, but it remains a major setback for international climate policy. The US's contribution, as one of the world's largest exhibitors, is of great importance. The VVD has always underlined the importance of a global approach to climate change. We still support the agreement, precisely because all the countries in the world have signed the treaty and companies and knowledge institutions also play a major role. The VVD therefore believes that we should proceed smartly with ambitious and sensible climate policy, with or without Trump. Furthermore, Trump's decision does not mean that the US will immediately stop taking all kinds of measures, because companies, as well as states, have already indicated that they will continue with their innovations and plans. That's telling. The VVD does not want a tightening of ambitions just for the reason that the US is no longer participating. It is not only difficult but also completely unrealistic to fill that hole. Our CO reduction targets are the most ambitious in the world: with at least 40% in 2030 and at least 80% in 2050. This will cost the Netherlands a lot of effort and money, but hopefully it will also create opportunities for new prosperity and activity. The transition we are going through is necessary. At the same time, we must always monitor the balance. The VVD aims to combine prosperity and sustainability, hand in hand, but to prevent a deterioration in prosperity without any environmental gain. Maintaining and strengthening our competitiveness is an important factor, as is acceptance and affordability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr Dijkstra spoke about the need for ambitious climate policy. My question is: does he think that the 40% CO reduction by 2030 is enough to meet the Paris targets?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u25	40% is the agreement we made at European level. That is the most ambitious objective anywhere in the world. The Netherlands does so in a European context. Is it enough to reach the Paris Agreement? All contributions submitted in the run-up to 2015 to the Paris Agreement were not sufficient for the 2°C in 2100, but came to around 2.7°C.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u26	If Mr Dijkstra gives the clear answer that 40% is not enough to reach the Paris Agreement by 2030, what conclusions does he draw for the commitment of the VVD to the ambitions in the Netherlands and Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u27	Firstly, we in Europe have the most ambitious objective of anywhere in the world. The Netherlands is part of this. Secondly, we must show reliability towards all those companies that carry it out. Thirdly, we are global leaders. That is something Europe likes to emphasise. Fourthly, we must follow the agreements that we ourselves have made, even when it comes to tightening up. This means that we will not see whether additional measures are needed until 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u28	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u29	Climate policy is not an individual but as much joint as possible. We are jointly thinking about shipping and aviation in a global context and together in a European context; I was just talking about it. We also do it together in the Netherlands with partners in the field; think of the energy agreement. The VVD wants to provide our companies with long-term investment securities and not burden our residents with acute or torrential burdens due to climate targets at which our society needs to green at an unrealistic pace. No obligations or limitations if possible. How do we create equal opportunities and, above all, new opportunities for our companies? The letter from the cabinet states that the Dutch contribution to the Green Climate Fund is 100 million. I have tabled a motion on this before. How can we, our companies, benefit from this? Has the money been transferred yet? How do our companies benefit from these climate funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u30	Does the VVD agree with the Animal Party that countries that do not participate in the Paris Climate Treaty may have an unfair competitive advantage over countries that do, because companies do not have to comply with all kinds of reduction targets, allowing them to produce cheaper ones?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u31	The Paris agreement has been a kind of grabbelton in which everyone has submitted their own contribution as a country, or in our case as a Europe. Unfortunately, even if we wanted to, these contributions are very badly comparable. There will always be differences between those who benefit from them and those who do not. The VVD wants us to let the environmental gains and welfare gains go hand in hand. We must therefore take a very close look at the fact that this does not harm our companies and our inhabitants. If there are differences, we need to look at how we deal with them. Of course, we prefer to do so in a European context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u32	I note that you are not ruling it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u33	I've heard in your contribution about all kinds of adjustment taxes. You also put the question to the Secretary of State. You can now see that the states and companies in America are saying: we want a CO price and we will continue with innovation and innovation, because we simply have to compete on a global playing field. What good will these companies and good parties in America gain if we tax them extra? Then we take them double, and that's not exactly fair either. There are no signs yet that more countries are going to withdraw from the agreement. But if more than one country cancels or cancels the agreement on their ambitions, how do we deal with it? How sure is the Secretary of State that these signals aren't there yet? What guarantees can she give? Geopolitical relations are really shaken by Trump's unilateral decision. In doing so, the EU, as well as this Secretary of State, is calling very actively for the Chinese. Bringing in the Chinese as if they were the saviors of the climate, that really goes the VVD too far. Let's face it, China has a huge self-interest. The country focuses mainly on population growth, and what is wrong with that? In addition, China's own contribution indicates that it can emit more until 2030 before it starts to work on a decline. That's how the Chinese filed it themselves. So why does China have an example? The Netherlands and, above all, this Secretary of State should not be naive when it comes to China. How does the Secretary of State envisage strengthening cooperation between Europe and China? What role does she see for China? For the VVD, it is clear that the current reduction targets set in the EU must be met. But we also have to look at the procedures and the agreements we have there. We should not create an emergency link or suggest overcompensation and jump into the hole left by the United States. Let's not be naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u34	Mr. Chairman. US President Trump has decided that the US is withdrawing from the climate agreement. He doesn't want to commit to the agreement. This is a worrying event, which could have a major impact on our future and on our children's future. If we want to maintain the viability of our planet, it is vital that we work together worldwide. The US has now withdrawn its hands with the argument "American jobs" and a "bad deal for the USA." But with what consequences? By the way, these are still to be seen. Indeed, a growing renewable energy sector will also create more and more jobs. Hopefully, many American states, including California, have indicated continuing with their progressive and successful climate policies. It is a signal of the division in the US on this subject. The Secretary of State recently attended an environmental conference in one of those states. We are very pleased to hear that experience has been positive. We also think it is wonderful that the Secretary of State should take such initiatives. How can we improve and intensify cooperation and exchange of knowledge with these states? 50PLUS questions the fact that the US President has suggested that the conditions for the US should be renegotiated. The President of the European Commission has already said that this is not the issue: the agreement must be implemented and not renegotiated. 50PLUS agrees with him. In the letter, the Secretary of State states that all Member States feel the same. They also just asked: how sure is this? Are all diplomatic channels spoken about this? Is the situation still workable? The Secretary of State stated on the withdrawal procedure that the US will not formally be fully free of obligations until 4 November 2020. But what exactly does this mean? That a next president could just undo the withdrawal? Or are steps to be taken from now on and will it become final on this date? Isn't it crooked that the US can still talk about the implementation of the Paris Agreement? What influence can the US's attitude in this respect have on connected countries? I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State. 50PLUS assumes that this development motivates the Dutch government and population even more to achieve the goals. At least we stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr. Chairman. This is the second time that we have discussed with the Secretary of State in this House the decision of President Trump to withdraw from the climate agreement. As has already been said, the CDA deplores the United States' move to do the same. The CDA wants us as the European Union to move forward with the climate agreement. The Environment Council has already been here and we have also received a letter from the Secretary of State, but can it give us a brief explanation of how this was thought by colleagues in the Environment Council? Because of course we all like to hear that back. The President of the European Commission indicated that he wanted to send a strong signal on the climate agreement to the G20 in July. The Netherlands participates in this meeting. Is the Dutch Government involved in the preparation of the President of the European Commission? Will the Netherlands use the G20 to send a strong signal that we will continue the global climate agreement, even without President Trump? The CDA is concerned about the consequences of this US decision. For example, we hear from the Secretary of State that she has released €100,000 for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, because the IPCC would have an acute gap in its finances. What exactly is this about? During the debate on the contribution to the Environment Council, I indicated that the Netherlands and Europe could not possibly draw the entire input from the US. At that time, the Secretary of State also indicated that this was definitely not her commitment. I was very happy about that, too. But what's her bet? That's the question now. How much is the IPCC short and has that been going on for a long time? Is it true that more scientific secondment is needed for countries outside the European Union? How exactly does this work? How much are independent funds for this? The CDA would like to see not only the Secretary of State and the European Union co-pay, but also countries outside the European Union. Is this already in contact with countries outside the European Union? If we look at the United States and the mood there among residents, businesses, states and cities to help with, my question is: what exactly are they going to finance? What does their input consist of? At first, the Secretary of State's decision seems very sympathetic to want to fill a gap somewhere. But do we give the US enough space to take steps of our own? What are they gonna do? Or do we jump right into a hole, and how thoughtful is that? As part of the further development of the climate agreement, I ask the Secretary of State how the loss of the US financial contribution to the climate fund will be placed. What about the funding at all? Is it possible to reduce the total amount of the climate with the US contribution? Or does the Secretary of State see it differently? The colleague of the VVD also pointed out that geopolitics are certainly playing a lot here. How do we deal with China? In preparing for this debate, the CDA also put written questions to the Secretary of State. It also discusses this issue, but could go into it a little more extensively. We would also like to hear how this is viewed at European level. The Secretary of State tipped that off in her letter about the Environment Council. I'd like to hear more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u36	I wonder what the CDA thinks of all the tough noises from some parties that there's no way to renegotiate and that Trump can't demand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u37	In my opinion, there's no way to renegotiate either. America must come up with its own offer of what its inhabitants, businesses, states and cities want to do. That's what I'm waiting for. I don't see that as renegotiating. Of course, it would be ideal if the contribution would be taken over by the US one-on-one. Then we don't have to add to that. I think it's a lot to ask that of our taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u38	So that tough language is unnecessary as far as you're concerned, because you know, like me, that there is no need to renegotiate at all. There is no need for exclusion either, because America, including the states and the companies, can simply say what one is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u39	The Secretary of State also made clear at the AO Environment Council that there is no renegotiatation. In the letter to the House of Representatives, the Secretary of State explicitly states that it is certainly not intended to be renegotiated. At least that's how I read it. I don't think that's necessary either. A symbolic step by transferring €100,000 that might be one researcher, so what are we talking about? We can't stand for this: we're going to take over everything from the United States. Then we're really on the wrong path. It's not the path the CDA would want to take. Let us invite the US and challenge the Secretary of State has already started in California to pick up his own package and get started with it. They're shouting in all the media that they want to do that. Let them pour water on us and show us that they're serious and serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u40	That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u41	I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for her first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u42	Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: like many of you, I am extremely disappointed by President Trump's decision to terminate the Paris Agreement. I would qualify that as an historic mistake. The Paris Agreement entered into force on 4 November last year. That is eleven months after we achieved a negotiated outcome in Paris, with which everyone could get out of their way, including the United States. It is an agreement which leaves room for the participating countries to fulfil the objectives in their own way and which provides for the countries to do more and more, so that the achievement of those objectives remains within reach. It is an agreement which serves its purpose, which has been taken into account by the US, and on which we shall be able to say it in writing to Mrs Kröger and others who have spoken about it, and I am not going to renegotiate it. As stated in the letter I gave to the Chamber a few hours ago, that is also the conclusion of last Monday's Environment Council. There, all the European Member States and the Commission have made it quite clear that this is not the case. Sometimes it's better to clarify something you're not planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u43	The Secretary of State has just begun. Do you want to interrupt already, Mr Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u44	Yes. There's no need to renegotiate. This is said to be tough, but that is not the issue at all, because every country has submitted what was necessary. At the time, Mr Obama said: these are the American objectives. Now Mr Trump says: I do not want it. But if he's gonna file something, he's gonna have to be free and open in it. There is no point in just saying tough words and saying: you are evil. No, then you have to say: come with something else and everything is welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u45	No, we don't say that. We hold the US from our position to what was previously agreed. We are very disappointed at the fact that this is not being done. What we are not going to do is to open up the Paris agreement to renegotiate. Well, that was ahead of schedule. It will not have escaped Mr Dijkstra's notice that this was also reflected in the US President's statement. The same evening, after that statement, I had contact with the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Commissioner to make sure that the position of Europe and the Netherlands would not be that we would say: yes, let us now throw that whole agreement in the trash and start negotiating again. That is not what we are doing. There's nothing cool about that. That is particularly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u46	I am not asking for the agreement to be thrown into the trash, but there is no need to renegotiate, because America can simply say for itself: this is what we are doing. If they say they're doing a little less right now and a next president is doing a little more, that's just a fact. That doesn't mean anything for the climate agreement. It's just a matter of: are they in or aren't they? And just appreciate every contribution that there is, even though it is not from Mr Trump now, but from those states and all those people who do want to move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u47	I feel like I've fallen into some sort of sham fight. I simply do not know what the difference is between what I am saying and what Mr Dijkstra is saying, namely: appreciate the contribution of everyone who does. That's all I do. I went to the States to meet people who let us know they do. If I express my disappointment at those who no longer do things after they had previously promised to do those things, then there is nothing wrong with that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u48	It seems as if Mr Dijkstra is creating confusion about how the Paris Agreement works. You are at first free as a country to make your own contribution, but once you have done so, the agreement says, you can only adjust it upwards afterwards. If the US were to be given the room to bring it down, it would certainly be a renegotiation of the Paris Agreement. Does the Secretary of State agree with me on that interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u49	Yeah, and we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u50	And that's what I totally agree with her. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u51	The Secretary of State continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u52	The fog's cleared up. That exactly the United States...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u53	Mrs Mulder on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u54	The Secretary of State said the fog has gone up. Perhaps the Secretary of State will deal with this later, but I would like to know exactly what it means if the states, the inhabitants of the United States, who could still do something about it, simply take over the pledge of the United States. We really do not want Europe to add to that. How can we challenge the Secretary of State to leave that on the U.S. sign and not take over any of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u55	I will go into this in detail in a moment, but it is not the case that Europe is going to take over the national contribution of the US. If that's foggy, we can clear it up right now. I can't and I can't. It is precisely because the US is the second polluter in the world that it has to shoulder its responsibilities. The pollution that is taking place there cannot be eliminated through Europe. That's clear. I welcome the fact that a whole range of states, namely nine, and many more cities, universities and companies, have determined that they will continue under the motto 'We Are Still in'. In practice, therefore, the blow, which is being handed out at the time of the withdrawal of the American contribution, is perhaps less severe, because it will be partly received through the States and others. This cannot be done through Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u56	I ask this because the symbolic gesture was raised at the Environment Council to make an additional contribution to the IPCC. Couldn't that have been asked of the states and cities in the US themselves? Okay, now we're gonna have to catch up. It is not about world-shattering amounts, but it is about the symbolism that this assumes. Then I want to make sure that it does not all end up on our plate, but that we leave responsibility where it belongs, namely in the US.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u57	I will deal with this in detail in a moment. I really support what I did there. If Mrs Mulder does not agree, then we do disagree. I do see increasing the contribution to the IPCC as an acute solution to a problem. If the IPCC can't do its job anymore, the scientific engine of the Paris Agreement will fall silent at one stroke. I don't think we should let that happen. That is quite different from the question of whether Europe, for example, would take over the US's share of climate finance.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I'll get to that in a minute. I will also explain that this is not just a matter of fact, because the US certainly knows in the present constellation obligations to which they will have to comply. Those are really different quantities. Let us be pleased that last Monday we succeeded in helping that small yet so meaningful cog of the IPCC to continue its work. I therefore regret that we are having a discussion in the Dutch Parliament just now about why we should do this, and whether or not someone else can do it. I think that's a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u58	The Secretary of State continues her speech. I suggest that she gets started first with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u59	But I've already dealt with my disappointment; that's happening fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u60	I have a point of order. It is now being pretended that I would not be in favour of that contribution to the IPCC. I didn't say that. But I do think that should be on the right board. It can't be that the US can now sit back because other countries will be joining. That is the point I wanted to make today; if that has come across clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u61	I think that was a personal fact, not a point of order. We'll take note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u62	I'm very pleased that I misunderstood. That's only good. I had only just begun my answer. So much emotion, boy. The counter now stands at 148 ratifications of the 195 countries that have signed the agreement. I hope that the Netherlands will be able to join us next week. All the countries that are parties to the agreement are united in their efforts to achieve the goals of Paris. No country has indicated that it will follow the US example or weaken its own reduction arrangements. That's important. And among the non-state actors in the US, we see an increased ambition. Mrs Van Veldhoven just indicated that. States and cities have united under the leadership of Michael Bloomberg in a "We Are Still In" alliance. They also come up with a so-called America's Pledge: the quantified total of their individual climate measures in line with Paris' goals. The California Governor, Jerry Brown, with whom I organised a climate conference in San Francisco in May, has been appointed by the UN as special advisor for states and regions. The cooperation he seeks with China, for example, is very encouraging. I'll be back in a minute to talk about China. The European Union and its Member States, including the Netherlands, strongly support the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u63	I heard a bit of a middle line, but if I've interpreted that phrase correctly, I think it's actually a key point. That's why I'm gonna check it out. Did the Secretary of State just say that the members of the "We Are Still In" coalition, if they add up their contributions, will make a contribution that would bring the US in line with the original objectives of Paris?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u64	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u65	Have I unfortunately interpreted that hopeful sentence too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u66	Yeah, that's a little too generous. They show what their contributions could be quantified in line with the objective. But that doesn't mean they're there with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u67	That seemed to me as well, but I thought: I'm gonna check it out anyway, otherwise we're gonna count our empire or we haven't underlined it enough. It would be interesting to see what the autonomous reduction path of the US is, for example through the switch from coal to gas, and what such a coalition puts on top of that. Then we know what we can expect to happen in total in the United States. It is also a hopeful signal to all those other countries that continue to attract it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u68	We will follow that closely, but in the end it is up to this coalition to get as much picture as possible. So they are also doing this quantified. This ultimately gives you a more real picture of the precise effect "on the ground" of withdrawing the federal government. Over the last few months, we have launched a number of ambitious activities in the Netherlands to make a substantial contribution to tackling climate change in addition to the European commitments. I mention the climate summit in October last year, the publication of the Energy Agenda and the initiative to set up a Global Centre of Excellence on Climate Adaptation. The latter happens with UNEP and Japan, including outside Europe. Those are just a few examples. With President Trump's recent decision, the IPCC, the engine behind the agreement, lost its biggest donor. This contribution amounts to about EUR 2 million per year. Out of my mind, it's 1.8 million. The resulting deficit had therefore to be compensated. For this reason, this year and next year, the Netherlands will double its donation to €100,000. I have also called on other countries to follow this initiative in the Environment Council this week. With all this crowdfunding, we have already solved a whole part of the problem, but that doesn't mean we're here yet. The climate panel can now do its job, but more and more work is being done on the climate panel. So contributions from others outside Europe are also welcome. My impression is also that there are, for example, financial contributions from the US to further shape the Paris climate agreement. So we are certainly not alone in this too. Within Europe, for example, Luxembourg, Austria, the United Kingdom and the European Commission have responded to our call. Is it really the case that other countries do not reconsider their support for the agreement? Among other things, Mrs Van Brenn asked. Indeed, we do not currently have any indications that other countries are considering following the US. We see more and more countries ratifying just these days. Yeah, we put everything in our contacts to keep everyone on board. But actually, you almost see a movement the other way around. This step has united a lot of countries in their determination. I think that's very nice to see. It has also been asked to what extent permanent cooperation between the European Union and non-state coalitions in the US is possible. Commissioner Cañete and the Commission will look into this. I've insisted on that before. Indeed, this cooperation is mainly aimed at sharing knowledge. Mr Dijkstra asked what is in it for Dutch companies. Good point. I've organized two climate trading missions since I arrived. I give it free advice that it would be a good idea to continue with this in the future. Of course, this can also be organised more broadly within Europe. It can also be done with other countries. We've got a visual on Canada. Of course, there are also countries in Latin America that are very keen on new technologies and innovations. There are really a lot of opportunities to continue working together in this way. We usually do that through the Under2 MOU Coalition and the Zero-Emission Vehicle Alliance. Mrs Kröger asked whether a letter or intent could be agreed with other states. That would be great. We've entered into a partnership with California. That is a natural partner for us because California is really a precursor in the field of zero emission vehicles like the Netherlands. It is quite nice to be able to say that we are ahead of time. I really do not rule out doing this with other states or cities, or in a more multilateral context. Canadian governors have also reported to me by now because they find it very interesting to cooperate in this type of collaboration. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether cooperation with the US could also be strengthened in the scientific field, for example through the Global Centre of Excellence on Climate Adaptation. We already work with many other countries, including the US. The Global Centre of Excellence on Climate Adaptation should indeed strengthen that. It is also important that scientists work closely together, in particular through the IPCC, in the near future, so that the further implementation of the Paris Agreement can build on a widely shared scientific exchange of data. Of course, we also have our own great people from the KNMI, who also have a lot of knowledge and can do a lot. What developments do we see internationally and how, for example, can we avoid a blocking role for the US? Until the US is no longer a party to the Paris Agreement, they can participate fully in the negotiations on the elaboration of the Agreement. We will just have to wait and see what position the negotiators are going to take. There is a risk that the US will no longer commit itself to the Paris agreements and raise a threshold for joint declarations. Of course it could be. For the time being, there seems to have been a mode found for that. It was first seen at the G7 summit, where there was just a statement that the US could not agree to the climate paragraph. The other leaders confirmed their rapid commitment to a rapid implementation of the Paris Agreement. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether Europe would go ahead with the national contribution for Bonn. No, because at the next climate summit in Bonn, the increase in ambition is not on the agenda. That will happen in 2018. That is when the so-called facility dialogue takes place. There, all countries will jointly examine how their ambition relates to the necessary action to achieve the goals. Then comes the special IPCC report on the consequences and paths for achieving 1.5°C in 2018. That is a report to which we make a one-off contribution. Through the University of Nijmegen we put €50,000 into that research, because this is a crucial research for the world. Mr Dijkstra and Mrs Mulder asked about enhanced cooperation with China. Mr Dijkstra has given me another cry: do not be naive. I will certainly bear that in mind, but I do not have the impression that I can be accused of it. You can see that China has really made meters over the last few years. This is mainly because there is enormous social pressure on the part of the population in the areas of air pollution and health. China faces challenges that we have had here before, because with the enormous growth of its population and accelerated industrialisation, it is now seeing its economy change. It is a good thing that we share how we give substance to Paris, what we run into and what we need from each other. Political cooperation is not only aimed at talking to one another and looking at opportunities, including for the mutual business community when it comes to innovation. We also see that China is currently, for example, introducing an ETS system in its own right. This experiment has been carried out in seven regions and last year the Chinese climate envoy told me in Marrakesh that China prefers to roll this out all over the country this year. That's fundamental. On the one hand, we can see that China's energy needs are growing, because people are getting richer and there are a lot of people coming in and needing to be provided for. That's what you see in the national contribution. On the other hand, there is also the need to accelerate this contribution even further. This is being given a lot of thought, and this was also apparent at the recent EU-China Summit. It is necessary to discuss this further. The pressure on China must remain high, because it is the largest polluter, not in proportion to the population and income, but in numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u69	I think that the Secretary of State's analysis is clear and sound. Each country, of course, has its own reasons for doing so. This certainly applies to China with a growing middle class and air pollution. I spoke of 'naïve' in the sense... I was a little angry about the messages I also heard from Europe and the European Parliament: Trump is no good anymore, that was a bit of the trend, and China is the promised country because there is so much happening there. I believe that we should be more nuanced in this and I hear that the Secretary of State shares this with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u70	I share that, because China faces a huge challenge and it needs to be fulfilled. It is important that we see that as an opportunity. Mr Dijkstra's optimism among some may be due to the fact that, years ago, China was always seen as the greatest obstacle to reaching the Paris Agreement, along with India, for example. I note that thanks, by the way, to the American diplomacy of, for example, President Obama and Secretary Kerry, we have managed to get China and India on board. Fortunately, they remain on board, unlike the new federal government of the United States. I think this is the optimism that Mr Dijkstra is tasting in his comments on China. The country had a very different position for a very long time, namely a position in which it actually seemed to say: this cup is passing us by. I welcome it with all those people who are happy, but there is still a lot to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u71	They come from far, they participate, and that is welcome, but we should not be naive. I'm glad I'm not listening to that anymore with the Secretary of State. I'm asking her how she looks at that. Every country in the run-up to the Paris Summit has indicated what it wants to do, the Netherlands at European level. China has said that until 2030 we will continue to eject because we are not guilty, we want to grow and we have a large middle class that needs to develop. How does the Secretary of State look at China's contribution versus the restrictions the Americans saw for themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u72	I don't know how much time we have, because now we're really going into the world politics department. When you look at China's contribution, you see that people were cautious and wanted to take into account the delays that are also taking place in economic terms. In itself, the Paris agreement had to be kept under constant review. On the one hand, you have these great emissions that absolutely have to change, but on the other hand, there are great differences in the position of the countries that participated, including in the financial position of those countries. This has been taken into account, but, at the same time, upward pressure must remain. Mrs Van Veldhoven rightly said that the starting point for each round is not what you can do less but what you can do more. That will have meaning for China, for us and for the US. The irony is that only the day before the new President or the same President, who is to the American people, who we know is not going to take office, has the actual exit from the Paris agreement been effective. You don't have to be a mathematician to predict that the next elections in the US will be dominated by, among other things, this theme. I think it is a lesson about what is going on, that part of the American population felt that their values and their jobs are at stake because of the transition from the fossil industry to the new economy and that those jobs are flying away to China, for example. If you look at the facts, and all the fact-checkers have lusted, you can see that most job growth in the US has occurred in the new, sustainable economic sectors in recent decades. That's where the growth potential is. This has not so much to do with the disappearance of jobs to low-wage countries as with changing demand, so it is really more complex. This is one of the reasons for the government to ask the ESC for a social story, to visualize what is coming to the Netherlands as a social transition. If you look at calculations in McKinsey's reports, it turns out that with a steady economic growth of 2% annually and an affordable contribution from business and government, we can make the transition to the goals of the 2050 agreement. This will also lead to more jobs in the long term. I believe 40,000 were mentioned. But that doesn't all happen on its own. Then you can take two positions. One is to leave it all to the market; you see. The other is to think about people who work in a particular industry that gets less to do or maybe even gradually disappears. How can you offer perspective in industries where much more work comes? In the built-up environment, the biggest climate gain will be for our country. We could really do that, with a big plan, where you innovate and invest in the viability of neighborhoods and make them sustainable. Then the energy bill of the people living in those houses will automatically go down to zero on the meter, as far as possible. In the sector of everything related to installation technology, and in construction, this will bring about an enormous recovery. It is useful to think about how we can guide these processes, for example through training courses and investing in lifelong learning. I myself learned from the outcome of the American elections that when Mr Van Aalst asks what we are doing with the steel industry, I will remind him of the facts and say: it is not just a relocation and all industry does not just disappear, but it is also too easy to wave it away and not take it seriously. So I think it is a valid point. That's why you need to agree with each other in Europe how we're going to organise this transition in such a way that people are going to experience it. I have no illusion that at the end of this debate Mr Van Aalst, but perhaps if he thinks about it a little longer, will come to the conclusion that what we are doing is sensible. But on the other hand, I don't want to make people in the country feel like this change is being rolled over their heads. That support is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u73	I want something clear. I did mention the steel sector earlier. An additional environmental standard is imposed from Europe, which is higher than in other countries. I think I just heard the Secretary of State say a little bit that this kind of sector disappears. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u74	The Netherlands will have to end its fossil addiction at some point. That is undoubtedly true. We also know that a number of forms of the chemical industry, in particular, cannot go through this way. So there has to be a plan for this: either we are going to innovate, or we are going to make a new transition in those sectors to, for example, other work. Mr Van Aalst is right that steel will still be needed in the future, for example. You need to take a good look at how we're gonna do it. I'm not in favour of leaving the purple crocodile standing somewhere in the corner of the room untouched. Do I have the ultimate solution right now? No. Does it help if the steel industry says that we are not experiencing this? No, that's really the worst possible position. So it's better if they sit down with us and talk about what they can, instead of just writing burn letters about what they can't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u75	Once again, do I understand that the Secretary of State agrees with me that the steel sector will be subject to additional taxation and that, as the letter of fire states, steel will come from China because it is cheaper? That's at the expense of the sector, isn't it? We can be very difficult about that, but I think I just heard the Secretary of State say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u76	No, I didn't say that. In the Netherlands and Europe, we have the ETS, with which we have created a level playing field for precisely this type of tax: everyone pays the same. By the way, we are paying too little now, which, as Mrs Van Veldhoven rightly pointed out, is perhaps the biggest problem. And by the way, they're gonna do the same thing in China. So they're not gonna be left behind. They're gonna change that, too. It is better to discuss with the steel industry what innovations are possible to reduce the burden it imposes on the environment, including with its CO emissions, what is needed for this and what innovations we could drive together. That would be a much more fruitful conversation than the conversation we're having right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u77	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr Van Aalst, you have already interrupted twice, so the Secretary of State continues her reply first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u79	The question was whether the Netherlands will do more now that the US has left the agreement. Not now. I said: in 2018, the world, all of us, will look at what is needed to better comply with the agreement. I agree with Mr Dijkstra that we must continue to say to each other that Europe has made the most ambitious contribution. We are not behind in this respect. I am convinced that our contribution, and what that means in the Netherlands, is far greater than many people now think. The question of import levies has already been discussed in detail in an earlier debate. I think that is what I was talking about with Mrs Kröger and now with Mr Van Raan. I'm a little shook up about that. And apart from how technically complicated that is, you don't want to hit the wrong guy either. Mr Dijkstra quite rightly pointed that out. There are states and companies that are fully committed and remain in Paris. You don't want to touch those companies and states with such a measure. Mr Dijkstra is right in saying that they will be hit twice, namely by their own government which they do not support and by Europe, which they thought was their friend. Then it has been asked whether I am willing to investigate how large scale...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u80	Excuse me, Mr Van Raan would like to interrupt on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u81	I've got two more interruptions, which I'll post right away. The first relates specifically to the answer to the question on the instrument. The Secretary of State said, "You shouldn't do it, 'cause maybe that'll hit the good guys." Mutatistively, this means that it accepts that it is also an instrument with which you can hit the bad ones. Does the Secretary of State recognise that this instrument can be effective, if you can direct it accurately enough? I agree with her that an instrument that cannot be properly targeted is not a good instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u82	I therefore doubt whether it is possible within the European Union to make this type of agreement at such a level, almost to the point of the product. If I can use my energy that is always scarce, I prefer to focus it on the positive side and supporting the positive forces, because I think that is much more effective in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u83	I'd be happy to brief the Secretary of State on that, to convince her of that. May I ask a second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u84	Yeah, just a quick follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u85	The Secretary of State called what Trump did a "historical mistake" on behalf of the cabinet. We agree with her. Both science and business say it actually has to be much faster. Politics is the last remaining big player who doesn't go fast enough. The Secretary of State has been around a lot longer than I have in this house. Can it appoint which parties are the retardants of the process and find what science, civil society and business? What are the accelerating and delaying parties in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u86	You know what? I'm always the one being judged by the Chamber, not the other way around. I can't help it either. Those are just the proportions. Mr. Chairman. I have been asked whether I am prepared to criminalise large-scale environmental pollution. If pollution is caused by illegal activities, it is already punishable. The Netherlands is also genuinely in favour of a robust enforcement of European environmental policy. Another story is greenhouse gas emissions. They are largely produced in non-criminal activities. We have the ETS for that, although we do not agree on its functionality. We have a different opinion on this. Mrs Kröger asked a question about the Urgenda report which shows that a 100% renewable energy target is feasible by 2030. Urgenda's report also shows that major efforts are needed to prevent climate change. I share that observation. In the short term, this means achieving the goals of the energy agreement for the cabinet. For the period after the Energy Agreement, the Cabinet presented the Energy Agenda to the Chamber in December. We are sending CO, because that is the most effective thing; for example, we are not steering towards achieving 100% renewable energy. Bringing down the CO emissions is a means of achieving the goal. A few more questions have been asked about climate finance; then I am at the end of my contribution. Mrs Mulder wanted to know how acute the problem of the IPCC is. Since the economic crisis, the IPCC has already been struggling with reduced donations from countries and is falling back on its reserves. So it needs more money structurally. Stopping the US contribution increases the problem, as this contribution is about 40% of the revenue that is expected annually. An increase in the Dutch contribution is not in itself sufficient to make up for this, but that increase has been achieved within the EU. The Commission will also make substantial additional contributions. It must be imagined that this will solve the financial problems of the IPCC for now, but the role and task of the IPCC will only become stronger in the future. So there will be a need, also for other donors and perhaps wealthy others, to jump in there as well. So we can't all do that alone, but we've saved the panel for a while now. And I had to! What developments are we seeing in the area of climate finance? That is the area of my colleague Ploumen, but I will try to answer it with all my conscience. The obligation to contribute to climate finance has already been agreed for Paris. That is important, because the US continues to have an obligation to contribute to climate finance and we, the Netherlands and the other donors, will continue to appeal to the US in international fora. President Trump has announced that he will no longer contribute to the Green Climate Fund. That is not the only source of climate finance, by the way. For example, as far as we know, the US continues to contribute to the Global Environment Facility. Part of it also counts as climate finance. That pressure will remain. How's that hole gonna be sealed? The Netherlands contributes €100 million to the Green Climate Fund. And it is only in 2018 that a new cabinet will have to talk about supplementing the fund's resources. At the moment, until that period in 2018, the Netherlands will no longer contribute to the fund. Furthermore, the private sector must also provide an important part. The Netherlands is committed to involving companies in investing in combating climate change in developing countries. For example, companies have also emerged in the US that have promised to make direct financial contributions. So far, we've mobilized more climate finance every year. That was 45 million in 2010 and that is a planned 660 million this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u87	I would like to comment on a point from the previous block. That block passed at a rapid pace and then the Secretary of State indicated that she was almost finished answering the questions. I have two questions. Firstly, does the Secretary of State share the analysis that the relatively ambitious targets of 40% CO reduction by 2030 set for the Paris climate agreement are insufficient to reach the Paris agreement? My second question concerns the news on the land wind targets and housing corporations. The Secretary of State made a warm plea about wonderful plans to make housing corporations energy neutral. Those were targets of the past cabinet. That's not future music. Those were targets from here and now. Those targets aren't being met. To what extent does the Secretary of State agree that binding measures are needed to achieve the Urgenda targets?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mrs Kröger says the targets are not being met. Can she explain what she's basing that on? Which targets are not met by who exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u89	The objectives set out in the Energy Agreement for both land wind and energy saving by housing corporations do not seem to be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u90	Well, that's news to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u91	There is also a discussion on whether the Urgenda targets will be met. There are indications that they wouldn't be met either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u92	I don't know which glass ball Mrs Kröger has, but I'd like to take a look at it. This is fundamental. Mrs Kröger says that the energy agreement objectives are not being met. I don't have that clue yet. In my opinion, it is only this autumn that we get a picture of whether it is going to happen for the first time. Mrs Kröger knows that too, because the cabinet has told the Chamber several times. Mrs Kröger has also been able to read that if we did not make it, we should take an additional measure, namely closing a coal power plant that... And then there comes a whole spelling formula and then it comes down to what we have in sight, I shall say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u93	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u94	So, yes, you're saying something right now, but you're not making it true. You say we're not gonna make it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u95	I am referring specifically to the land wind targets and the targets of housing corporations, which would shift from 2020 to 2030. I will specify my question on this: should binding measures be taken, as in the case of energy-intensive industries, to ensure that we actually achieve the objectives of the energy agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u96	Now we find ourselves in a debate that is normally the subject of Minister Kamp. What I know is I'm following that just macro is that the agreements on the targets that we have to achieve this year will come to us through the NEA. As far as I know, we're just gonna get those targets. If we don't make it, we're gonna do something. That's the deal and that's a good deal, because then it's always gonna be okay. As a cabinet, we have also said that we are simply going to comply with the Urgendavonnis. So we all do. We have the energy agreement and Minister Kamp sits like a goat on the oat chest to make sure that is carried out. If sectors lag behind, as we recently saw in industry, then he intervenes. Then he does not hesitate, if necessary, to come forward with a measure. That's the attitude of the cabinet. As far as I know, that marches. That is all I know now, because you are now discussing a section on which I do not have the figures ready. It's not my wallet at first either, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u97	The Secretary of State completes her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u98	Mr. Chairman. My final comment concerns a question from Mr Dijkstra. He asked how companies benefit from the climate funds. There is a special funding for the private sector under the Green Climate Fund. So companies can have access to that fund. The intention, as I said, is to mobilise 660 million climate finance this year, including 300 million private climate finance. We do this by involving companies in climate investment. For example, the Netherlands contributes to FMO's Climate Investor One. The aim of this fund is to invest in renewable energy and to encourage that provision, together with the private sector. In fact, we are mainly engaged in public-private cooperation to also create opportunities for companies to invest in making the economy more sustainable. I just mentioned all the trade missions. We really do a lot to bring our innovations to people worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u99	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We shall now proceed to the second term and I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the statement by the Secretary of State that the fossil industry is approaching the end. In any case, I would like to wish all the people in the chemical industry and the steel industry very much strength. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United States has terminated the climate agreement and therefore no longer has to meet the reduction targets and financial commitments;]] [[Whereas this affects the 2°C objective agreed on in Paris and the annual 100 billion for the Climate Fund;]] [[whereas the Secretary of State and the EU are committed to strengthening or increasing efforts to meet these objectives;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the overall costs for the Netherlands to comply with the Paris Climate Agreement and its 2°C objective, while also identifying the additional costs for the Netherlands of the EU's announced reinforcement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Paris climate agreement obliges developed countries such as the Netherlands to transfer 100 billion annually to developing countries which may also continue to emit CO for the time being;]] [[whereas even according to the IPCC climate models, the Paris Agreement's climate agreements result in 0.15°C less warming in 2100;]] [[Whereas it places higher burdens on our citizens and businesses while our jobs disappear towards developing countries where they produce much more pollutingly;]] [[calls on the Government to terminate the Paris Climate Agreement as soon as possible and to end all resulting burdens on Dutch citizens and businesses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-165]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u101	Mr. Chairman. I liked the fact that the Secretary of State mentioned the social side of this whole transition, because it is of course true: there are jobs in one place, there are jobs in another place, and it is very important to ensure that there is a job for everyone in the future economy in the Netherlands as well. We are not going to achieve that by sticking to the old, because then no one will have a job, just to put it mildly. We will have to shape this transition, together with the sectors for which it is more difficult and where there is much to do. The US may then step out of the climate agreement as a country, but we are very happy with all those states, with all those cities and with all those companies saying: we are going on. We are also very pleased with the Secretary of State who says: I want to work with them. I would love it very much if we could really use Nijmegen as Green Capital of Europe next year as a kind of icon and as a vehicle to further strengthen that cooperation and also look at European funds. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many states and cities in the US want to continue implementing the Paris climate agreement, despite the President's decision to withdraw from the agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to strengthen cooperation on climate issues with the US states and cities wishing to implement the climate agreement, including the opportunities offered by Nijmegen as European Green Capital, and to exploit the opportunities offered by European research budgets,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-167]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u102	Mr. Chairman. We regret that we have not been able to convince the Secretary of State that an inquiry into ecocide is in the interest of the Secretary of State himself and of governments. Therefore, the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine how it can contribute to add ecocide to the Rome Statute,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raan and Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u103	My second motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the withdrawal of America from the Paris climate agreement gives American companies an unfair competitive advantage for some products;]] [[Whereas this may seriously disturb the level playing field;]] [[noting that within the WTO directives there is an instrument which can impose very selective charges, the so-called Border Adjustment Tax;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how to remove this imbalance within the WTO Directives through the Border Adjustment Tax instrument,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-169]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for once again a good discussion on climate policy. It won't be the last, thankfully, even though some climate deniers will think otherwise. Climate policy will be fundamental in the years to come, and we will often talk about it in this House. I have tabled a motion to support the current policy and to further develop that policy in order to ensure that the Paris Convention on Climate Change remains the guiding principle. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is essential that countries and cities remain involved in the Paris Climate Agreement in order to prevent climate change;]] [[calls on the Government to use all possible diplomatic means to ensure that countries remain within the Paris climate agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that cities and regional authorities are involved worldwide in the Paris Climate Agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mr. Chairman. Actually, I just wanted to file a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the most polluting companies contribute relatively least to climate policy costs;]] [[noting that the greatest burden of climate policy falls on the lowest incomes;]] [[Considering that the withdrawal of the US from the Paris climate agreement is a gap in the climate fund intended to support the most vulnerable groups in the world;]] [[noting that many people in the world are already living in energy poverty;]] [[calls on the government to adopt an action plan to address energy poverty, taking into account fair sharing of climate costs at both national and, where possible, international levels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u106	Mr. Chairman. The climate agreement is a fact, with or without Trump. It's also a fact that we only have one globe. That's what the VVD wants to be careful about; I think everyone wants to be. That is why sensible, sober and smart policies are needed. In doing so, we take responsibility and have ambitions. We can show them to you. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Europe has agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and 2050 as a contribution to the achievement of the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, as an EU Member State, is committed to these objectives and conducts its climate policy in a European context;]] [[calls on the Government to follow the European reduction targets for the years 2030 and 2050,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Remco Dijkstra and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31793-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u107	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. The contribution to the IPCC surprised us a little, because we had a debate with the Secretary of State prior to the Environment Council, of course, and it did not come out so explicitly. Of course, she could have reported that earlier. That would've been nice. Anyway, I'm glad that the acute situation at the IPCC has been resolved and that it can continue. I appreciate the Secretary of State's efforts to ensure that the pot will in future also be filled by other countries, and not only by the Netherlands, and possibly also by external funds. Our appreciation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u108	Then we have come to the end of the Chamber's second term contribution. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments until the Secretary of State has all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u109	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mr. Chairman. I'll pass the cabinet's judgment on the eight motions. Mr Van Aalst's motion for a resolution 165 wants us to look at the costs. That is what we will do when drawing up the Energy Agenda, but Mr Van Aalst actually wants us to do it in advance. That's difficult if you don't know exactly what measures will get away with it. That is why I must advise against this motion, but, of course, it will be clear later in time what the costs will be. As I have already said, McKinsey has already calculated the expected costs and investments up to 2050, the corresponding economic growth and the increase in the number of jobs. The motion in part No. 166 asks me to cancel the climate agreement. Of course, I'm not gonna do that, so I'm gonna have to advise against this motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 167 by Mrs Van Veldhoven. In the context of Green Capital, we carry out all kinds of activities. So the Ministry is in contact with Nijmegen. I also spoke with the director of climate policy once with people from Nijmegen. So we're talking about ways to do anything around that particular position of Nijmegen. The motion tabled can simply be left to the discretion of the Chamber, with a positive vote opinion from me. The motion in part No. 168 of Van Raan and Beckerman are asking for the criminalisation of ecocide. This motion I must advise against. Climate change is a complex task that requires a wide range of instruments. If there is lawless pollution, we absolutely must punish it, but the use of fossil energy is deeply rooted in the economy and society. We do have to get rid of that, but we cannot do that through criminal law. There's a different way of doing that. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. The motion in part No. 169 asks me to investigate border adjustment taxes. The debate has already shown that this is not the path I want to follow, because this is technically, practically and legally very complex. I'd rather focus on positive energy. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 170. In it, Mrs Kröger asks me to do everything in my power to keep cities and regional authorities involved in the global climate agreement and to use all possible diplomatic means. I am experiencing this motion in support of my policy and I would very much like to leave it to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 171 of Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Raan are invited to come up with an action plan to address energy poverty. I may be mistaken, but I think that the Chamber has had a very extensive debate on this whole subject very recently. I would have expected that this motion might have been tabled there, but that may be up to me; I am very old-fashioned in that. In any case, I am going to discourage this motion, because the ESC has already been asked by the cabinet to come up with an opinion on the effects of climate and energy policy, including on employment, for example. An action plan now seems to me to be too early, because we should first look at what the ESC comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u111	Perhaps just to clarify: there has indeed been a whole debate on this and my party has put forward a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry and put forward proposals. A lot of parties voted in favour of that. Many other parties have indicated: we find that sympathetic but more something for the cabinet. So we thought: we are making a sympathetic proposal which the cabinet can then work out. I thought: that would be corn on your mill!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u112	Yeah, but at this point, this mill isn't turning yet. So that's just the corn there, and that's a shame. We'll wait for the SER recommendation first. That seems to me to be the most logical thing to do. We've taken the subject by the head. Mrs Beckerman simply has a point to make. I called it the social transition, and it's very important. I'll come to the motion in part No. 172. In the Energy Agenda, Minister Kamp concluded, and with this as a cabinet, that acceleration in the Netherlands is probably the best option to go on an economically smart transition path to 2050. I do not know very well whether Mr Dijkstra disagrees with Mr Kamp's incontrovertible argument as far as I am concerned. That's what this motion shows. But I stand as one woman behind the Minister of EZ here and must therefore discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u113	Economically wise, that's what I'm always for. I am concerned about the reduction targets, particularly the percentages.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u114	We have a European agreement. That's what we're gonna do. Then, in the Energy Agenda, we are going to look at the pace at which we are going to keep that agreement. I can only read your motion in such a way that you lock down that exercise. You really shouldn't want that. Just in case, better be safe than sorry, I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-6.u115	I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
