ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u1	Mr. Chairman. Mr Plasterk will address the questions relating to the AIVD and I will assess the questions on the judicial pathway, all in the light of the fact that all Members of Parliament have addressed the concerns that arise about the risks that returners may bring. Those risks have increased as IS, fortunately, is under pressure. This means that the territory in which Dutch travellers are also located is getting smaller and smaller. For a number of people who are there, this may be a reason to see if they can return to the Netherlands. That is also why the services, namely the police, the AIVD, the MIVD and the Marechaussee, are very alert to this and that we also maintain close contact with municipalities to keep the risks in view and to minimise them as much as possible. I would like to join with Mrs Van Toorenburg in her appreciation of all these services. It is helpful in this approach that, even very recently, additional legislation has been adopted, for example the Temporary Act on the fight against terrorism and the adaptation of the Dutch Act on the Dutch Federation, which will enter into force from 1 March. Against this background, I shall deal with the questions I have asked. I do so in the order of the speakers. I shall begin with Mr De Graaf's question to provide numbers. Those are "he's' he himself has already given The current state of affairs is as follows. Since 2013, applications for passports have been made in 304 cases, 27 persons have been detained in the terrorist department, including 7 returners, 365 jihad-related criminal investigations have been launched into 415 suspects, all of the foreign nationals known to the police and OM have been subject to an individual criminal investigation and a European arrest and arrest warrant has been issued against them, and the Immigration and Naturalisation Service has in 15 cases taken foreign legal measures against non-EU nationals. Again, these figures should not be new, but Mr De Graaf specifically asked for them. Mr De Graaf then raised the question of whether open borders are still desirable for the Netherlands. In my opinion, we must be very vigilant. We are. However, the physical closing of borders would be very, very burdensome. It would mean that in this holiday time endless traffic jams would arise on the roads. Of course the Schengen external borders are checked, but I do not think that is what Mr De Graaf was referring to. If you would also like to close the national borders, as he put it, you will really get endless traffic jams, which include benevolent citizens. That would have enormous effects on Dutch trade. A large part of our production goes abroad. And if you would like to take all that for granted, the endless traffic jams and the damage to trade, then you still run into the reality that most of the Dutch borders run through meadows, forests and heathlands. If someone with evil intentions wants to avoid that traffic jams, he goes through that meadow or through that forest. I therefore agree with Mr De Graaf that action must be taken, whatever we do, but the image of closed borders is simply not real. Then what do we do? I was just entering the alert. A European arrest warrant has been issued against extravagants. They are registered in the Schengen Information System and in Europol's systems, causing them to fail as soon as they report to one of the Schengen external borders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u2	I think that the Minister is making too much of a caricature of what are close boundaries. "Dense borders" means that the KMar and the army will control the border of the Netherlands at about 400 border posts. In between you can make modern thugs fly, like drones, with which you can target people and intervene as soon as necessary. So there are modern means for border controls. There are also border controls between the United States and Canada. There aren't a lot of traffic jams there every day. So it's possible. Then why don't you give it a try? And why not say: safety is for everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u3	If you want to check all incoming cars in the Netherlands, that's the watertight system that Mr. De Graaf is asking for, isn't all Dutch cars in a traffic jam? I can't make it prettier. It's gonna be an endless traffic jam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u4	Once again, I have said more; Minister Blok gives a very brief answer to a more comprehensive question with more elements. I think the Minister is showing that he doesn't really want to. He shows that he just doesn't want to and says the following to the Netherlands. These guys are out here. Internal borders are open. There are thousands of people in the Schengen area who have returned and come back. Let them walk free. They're here to do their evil work on their own. The Netherlands, be careful yourself, but I'm not doing it for you. I do not think it is possible for a minister of security and justice to behave like this. Then take that title off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u5	Mr De Graaf does two things here. He comes up with a sentence about closed borders, but as soon as I ask him how he imagines it, there will be no answer at all, but no answer at all. And at the moment that I have outlined in detail how, at national and international level, we are ensuring that travellers are spotted and prosecuted and that our services are on top of that, Mr De Graaf suggests that nothing happens. I would much rather go along with Mrs Van Toorenburg's words of appreciation. She also had critical questions, but at least she acknowledged that incredible numbers of people are working as hard as they can day and night to make the Netherlands as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u6	Finally, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u7	I was challenged by the Minister. Of course we also appreciate the services. The Minister knows that very well. So it seems to me that that answer does not fit in with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u8	Ms Van Toorenburg asked about the role of the Royal Marechaussee on guided return. I would like to point out that there is no policy whereby the Netherlands now collects people in Syria or Iraq. But it may be that a Dutch national reports to the courts or a Dutch consulate, for example in Turkey, and asks to be able to come to the Netherlands. If someone is a Dutch national, international law obliges the Netherlands to take that national back. This is about someone suspected of participating in terrorist activities, otherwise we would not be discussing this person. In the interests of security, I can only imagine that you will only grant that access under the guidance of the Marechaussee. Upon arrival in the Netherlands, that person, as will be the case with all the travellers we are on the track, will be immediately detained for questioning and prosecution. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the consequences of the EU decision on the glorification of terrorism. The wording in the new EU directive refers to glorification, which is tantamount to inciting terrorist offences. Because of the combination with the inciting of terrorist crimes, this wording is already in line with the current wording in the Dutch Code of Criminal Law. So we do not see any need in the new EU directive to adapt Dutch legislation, as it is already in line with Dutch legislation. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked how far we are with the bill that also criminalizes residence in the territory controlled by a terrorist organisation. This law, as Mrs Van Toorenburg knows, has just been consulted. The consultation has been completed and the bill will be sent to the Council of State in the short term. I am in the same hurry as Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u9	Unfortunately, that is not the same rush, because I would like this bill to come to the Chamber by means of a round-the-clock procedure. That's not unusual. It is not very common, but in this case too, we could move on to the Chamber now so that we can read it and prepare ourselves for it. We believe it is important to be able to deal with this law as soon as possible. So I ask the Minister whether the process can be speeded up by not doing everything on a temporary basis, given the threats and the sounds we hear from the AIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u10	I can't pass the Council of State with my bill. The Council of State can deal with a law as soon as possible, but I cannot pass the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u11	I'm not talking about passing. I very much appreciate the opinion of the Council of State. I therefore ask the Cabinet to at least ask the Council of State to deal with it as soon as possible. But that does not prevent the cabinet from sending this bill to the Chamber for notification. Then we can look into it. Of course, there will be a formal note when it has been submitted officially. I get that diligence, but I'm trying to buy time, because we don't have time to waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u12	The law has been in consultation; it is known. The reactions have been processed and treatment in the Chamber will always wait for the opinion of the Council of State. That's not new. I can't change that either, I'm afraid. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked how to deal with the possibility of withdrawing the Dutch citizenship of people of dual nationality participating in a terrorist organisation, which will come into force legally from 1 March. A very balanced framework has been created for this. That has been dealt with extensively, especially in the Upper Chamber. I didn't do the treatment in the Lower House myself. The following issues are important in this assessment: the chances of prosecution in the Netherlands, the age and severity of the suspicions that exist against the person. So it's not a black and white decision. After the expiry of the balancing framework, it can therefore be decided after 1 March whether or not to withdraw nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u13	When I hear it like that, I have a question about that. How's this gonna work later? We have 190 extravagants who can potentially come back. If we deprive them of Dutch nationality, as can be done from 1 March, how does it go on with the State's Attorney's Office? The D.A.'s gonna file all 190 out-of-travelers. Does that criminal record continue? How am I supposed to see these two in proportion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u14	For the record, nationality can be withdrawn only from people of dual nationality, and this is not the case with all 190. The D.A. will just do his job, just like it does now. The balance-of-payments framework raises the question of the likelihood of a conviction, but it is not intended that the work of the prosecution should be crossed by the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u15	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u16	Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether the recent statement by Chief Akerboom on the spread of police across the country was an indication that the reorganisation of the police had a negative impact on the fight against jihadism or potential extravagants. No, I don't think that ruling can be interpreted that way. In my view, the Chief Constable has indicated in his responsibility that he is very critical of the presence in neighbourhoods, cities and villages. That was a very fair statement. This is also clearly part of his work and fits with the signals I am also getting from mayors in particular. That is not because he feels that he has not been sufficiently capable of tackling terrorists or potential terrorists so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u17	Perhaps not in such a huge amount, but I have heard him clearly say that the centralization did not really make it so good in the neighbourhoods. The distance between the police and the neighborhoods has become too great. That's what the Chief Constable says. And we know that radicalisation is best resisted when the police are in the capillaries of society, so in the neighbourhoods. There is therefore a risk. I would like to hear a reflection from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u18	Sure. Mrs Van Toorenburg's relationship has not established the Chief Constable. He said that he would like to look again closely at the distribution of the presence of police across the country, by neighborhood and by village. He didn't say he was obstructed in the fight against terrorism. I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u19	He has indicated that he is actually sorry for the way it has gone down. He has seen that centralization has made the distance between the police and the neighbourhood too great. That's what he said. Apparently, the Minister has read no fear of that. We do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u20	That is a point I should like to make. Again, he has neither established nor is there any relationship with the fight against terrorism. I come to Mrs Tellegen's questions. She addressed the situation of minor returners. This is a subject on which the AIVD also went into detail last week. That is indeed a specific concern. We know that ISIS is also using or trying to use minors in terrorist activities, and is trying to brainwash minors. Because of the combination of age and the fact that it will vary from person to person what someone has undergone, it will always arrive at customization. We now point out that young returners may also come forward. We ensure that the various disciplines are present in the reception of those returners, i.e. child protection, youth care, but also police and justice. The fact that you're a minor doesn't automatically relieve you of prosecution. That is why we will ensure that teams are surrounded on a case-by-case basis, looking at the right measures from different angles. Mrs Tellegen has asked for my expectation of the proactive approach of the Public Prosecutor's Office and specifically of condemning by default. A number of other Members have also asked for this. I very much agree with the commitment to get all well-known travellers convicted in absentia if there is no other way. Of course, judging by default has disadvantages in relation to physically condemning someone. The great advantage, however, is that if such a person does report to the border, there will be a verdict. This means he can be taken into custody immediately. That's a big advantage over having a criminal record available. That commitment is there, but it offers less guarantees that people can also be taken into custody immediately and for the longer term. In short, I strongly support that commitment. Then Mrs Tellegen asked whether supporting acts in favour of terrorism could also be sufficient to condemn someone in absentia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u21	Before you proceed, Mr Recourt has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u22	The minister says he preferred to convict them, because it's easier to lock them up when they come in. The moment you can convict someone on a file, you can also take him into custody. You're gonna need a lot less evidence. If there's more than one can do, can't there be less? I don't quite understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u23	If there isn't a conviction yet and someone is being arrested, that's the standard procedure when a jihadist returns. It's all part of the rule of law. Mr Recourt knows this better than anyone else. If there is a conviction, such a person may be taken directly into custody for the purpose of undergoing his sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u24	That's right, that makes it a little easier and needs a little less administration. However, you cannot say that it is more certain because we can judge someone. Again, to take someone into custody, so to put him in jail before he's convicted, you're gonna need a lot less evidence, and you can even do that faster. You can even insist that that's a certain route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u25	I support the public prosecutor's statement that, at the time of his return, we must ensure that the staffing procedure ends as far as possible, i.e. up to and including the sentence, so that the law can take its course and we do not risk, at the time of our return, the release of someone, while we have the opportunity to settle the sentence in full and to put people in prison in advance. This falls under the category better safe than sorry; I can't just think of a Dutch expression for that. Mrs Tellegen asked whether supporting acts in favour of terrorism could be sufficient to condemn someone in absentia. Yes, the pursuit of support activities for terrorism has also been punishable. It is up to the judge to determine the degree of penalty involved, but it is a criminal offence. Mrs Tellegen rightly pointed out that the Computer Crime III Act helps to combat terrorism, as there has been an additional opportunity to act against criminal acts on the Internet. Mr Bontes pointed out that a number of returners were free. I have already indicated that returners will be arrested, and that they will then be judged whether they have committed criminal offences and constitute a danger to society. The first group, to which this message refers, returned until a year or two ago. These are often people who went to Syria to fight Assad. That is not necessarily humane, but it is a different motivation from that of the jihadists who are now in the picture. It is not that we would no longer be interested in people who have been there and have returned. If necessary, the services are very alert. But it is also not the case that anyone who went to Syria in the early stages, in which a little confused people could be present, is immediately a jihadist terrorist. That really has to do with the stage in which the conflict was at that time. But if there's cause, we keep a close eye on people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u26	Of the 50 jihad-goers, only three have been convicted. That's a very low result. Why is that, exactly? You can't say it was some confused people who actually went for charity? A large part of that group has joined Jabhat al-Nusra. That's a life-threatening terrorist organization. With the story that they were a little confused, the minister won't get away. You can't do that. Only three jihad-goers have been convicted. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u27	I indicated that this group, of people who came back a few years ago, was there in another phase of the struggle. I didn't say they were all a little confused people. I have said that there are also confused people, and people who wanted to fight Assad in particular. Again, the D.A.'s got the people in the picture. If there was cause for this, criminal proceedings have been initiated. That's also apparent from the convictions. If there was no reason to do so, you cannot lock people in a rule of law. For everyone: if our services have reason to remain alert to these people, they are also very alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u28	Of those 50, 40 are free. What guarantees can the Minister give that this group will be closely monitored? Some are obviously confused, but still dangerous because they come from a dangerous area. What measures are being taken to ensure that these 40 people are closely monitored and do not pose a threat to society? 'Cause there's 40 of them out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u29	If our services have cause for concern about these people, then we're going to follow them. But Mr Bontes also knows that we in the Netherlands do not lock people up for a lifetime because they have ever been somewhere. He also asked about administrative detention: in the Netherlands you are locked up on the grounds of a very serious suspicion or punishment. People don't get taken off the streets for life because they've been somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u30	This answer doesn't reassure me. Again, there are 40 ticking time bombs out there. We are not getting any clarity about how these people are being watched, whether they are being watched and what are the measures. I can imagine that a lot of Dutch people, I'm one of them who's worried that these 40 are out there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr Bontes understands better than anyone that if I or my colleague, Mr Plasterk, were to explain exactly who we are following, this would be pointless. I do not, however, hear Mr Bontes say that we should put people away for life, because that cannot be done under the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u32	It is, of course, very good that when there is reason for the services to do their job to have these people fully in view. Recently, we had two debates on two laws, which the cabinet very often said were very much needed. I would also like to hear from the Minister that under the current circumstances it is apparently possible to obtain a great deal of information. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u33	At least not enough information. The first debate I had with Mr Verhoeven in this role was on the intelligence and security services Act, of which Minister Plasterk is the proud defender. If there are suspicions that there are contacts with terrorist organisations, but you do not yet know exactly who they are, then such a law will help greatly, but I think it is good that Mr Plasterk is taking a more detailed approach. It is precisely from the concerns that I hear widely in the Chamber and which the cabinet takes seriously that we have made these additional legislative proposals. For my part, this includes, for example, the possibility of avoiding exit, which may also be very relevant to this group, as well as the possibility of giving area instructions. These instruments are really new, and I think they are very important. There is never a golden key in the fight against terrorism, in the sense of: if you have that instrument, it is safe. I wish! We have experienced again and again, however, I'm going to answer some questions about DNA collection that we still need an instrument in the framework of a good approach. And the current law doesn't allow for that. Then we will come to you, as quickly as possible but carefully as possible, so I say to Mrs Van Toorenburg, with additional legislative proposals. Mr Van Raak had a question about the number of returners who are now free to move around, but I hope I have already answered it when I addressed Mr De Graaf's question on that point. Mr Van Raak further asked about a list of Salafist organisations. The WODC I thought this was also well known, and is currently investigating salafism. The expectation is that when this research is finished this summer, we also have an overview of those salafistic organizations in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u34	Exactly. If you really don't want something, you're gonna have a big investigation. I know that the AIVD has been researching and regularly reporting on Salafist organizations for at least ten years. So it seems strong to me that the AIVD doesn't know what it's been researching for ten years. So I'm making myself strong that the AIVD already has that list. The only thing the AIVD must do and undoubtedly has already done is to give that list to Minister Asscher so that he can simply carry out the motion of the SP and the VVD, of Roemer and Zijlstra, which we have been waiting for for a year and a half. No excuses, no fuss, just the list that's out there. Why doesn't the Minister want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u35	I could have imagined that Mr Van Raak would simply be satisfied that a respected institution like the WODC would allow us to investigate salafistic organizations. Possibly there's a overlap with the organizations that have the AIVD in the picture. It'd even be strange if it isn't, but it doesn't have to be exactly the same. Mr Van Raak is asking for public information. Well, then you'll have that investigation done by a respected institution that can provide that information publicly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u36	The Minister is right to say that terrorists do not report to the borders with a passport and say: I want to commit an attack. That goes through international networks. In these networks, these kinds of Salafist organisations also play an important role in the Netherlands. They can do their job secretly. That's why SP and VVD, Roemer and Zijlstra, want that public. And we already know that. We've known that for ten years. That motion was passed a year and a half ago. Why can't that just be made public today? The investigation is done. It's known. The motion has been passed. Why isn't it delivered?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u37	Mr Van Raak strongly claims that he knows exactly what information the AIVD has. That's an interesting theorem you might be worried about, but I'm assuming she's not right. What I do know is that the AIVD is hidden in the way it works. Mr Plasterk is responsible for this, and that the information is not just published. That is why we are going to another institution, which can provide that information. By the way, Mr Van Raak is also very well aware that within the collusive method he describes so far, he also hears that people do not always openly join organizations, and that organisations do not always function as organisations, just to stay under the radar. Even if you have a list like that, unfortunately, you don't have a gold key. It is at most an instrument that can help with this so important approach to terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u38	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u39	The Minister should read back tonight what he just said, because, with all due respect, it doesn't make any sense. The AIVD has been researching salafistic organizations for ten years and would not know which salafistic organizations are in the Netherlands. If that's true, we have to shut down AIVD. I don't believe that. I believe the AIVD does have that list. The minister says: but that list is from the AIVD, so we can't make it public. Another research institute will have to re-examine it for a few years to get the same list, which may then be made public. It's insane. This just can't be done. A motion from the Chamber has to be carried out and the Minister is hiding behind screaming and we simply cannot accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr Van Raak asked, despite his long speech, that not all points were correct, for the examination of the AIVD. As usual, information from the AIVD remains within the AIVD. Mr Verhoeven asked what additional DNA possibilities would be provided for in the law with additional counter-terrorism measures, which will shortly be sent to the Council of State. It concerns the situation in which an investigation has come up against the fact that co-suspects of a terrorist offence or their preparation cannot be forced to participate in DNA release. In the context of ongoing investigations, therefore, it was found that the law needed to be amended. The proposal is therefore still before the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u41	For investigative services?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u42	This is forensics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u43	Yes, but it is not for the intelligence and security services, as is provided for in the amendment of the Intelligence and Security Services Act, which was dealt with two weeks ago. It is an additional competence for other services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u44	It's an additional power. Once again, the bill comes to the Chamber, so at that time it can still be judged in detail. It's not something that's already available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u45	So it's for the investigation services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u46	Search and prosecution. Mr. Chairman. Mr Verhoeven asked how the Public Prosecutor's Office provides sufficient evidence in the event of a conviction in absentia. Of course, he's right when he says it's more complicated than when the suspect is present, although suspects sometimes keep their mouths shut. Of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office collects information from various sources to enable those convictions. Luckily, it has also proved possible to condemn suspects, even if they did not cooperate passionately. It's not easy, but as I mentioned earlier, it's very worthwhile. Mr Recourt asked about the possibility provided for in the law that comes in to extend the provisional detention in the context of the fight against terrorism. We are therefore talking about terrorist suspects. He is specifically concerned with the possibility of extending provisional detention in the event of suspicions of terrorist offences. Again, the draft law will be sent to the Council of State for consultation in the short term and will then be sent to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u47	A practical question: is it in one or two laws? We're for one thing and against another, and I'd think it was a shame if it didn't find one because of the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u48	Perhaps this communication will have an impact on that. Thanks for the advice! Mr Recourt asked how we are going to detoxify returned children from the poison of IS. I already pointed out to Mrs Van Tellegen that the fact that someone is underage does not mean that he or she is exempt from criminal law and that, of course, we will look very closely at the specific behaviour, the specific circumstances and the age. We will therefore ensure that in such cases a team is always deployed for the assessment and guidance of this person. Mr Recourt is right to say that it is about trying to detox, because it is, in fact, a part of the unknown area. We have only a very limited experience of it, but at least the aim will be to restore healthy ideas to all returners and children in particular. I hope I have answered Mr Recourt's question in reply to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u49	I'm afraid not. There have been a number of absenteeisms. The court agreed, but under what conditions does the court agree? I can't imagine, and I wouldn't agree with that either, that we're going to do it by default. I also think that this is flagrantly contrary to the ECHR. The ECHR stands for something, namely basic standards and not Kafka in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u50	I'd like to return to that in second term. I understand that the specific question is: under what circumstances does the court approve of default sentences? I'll get back to you on that. Then I come to Mr Grashoff, who also asked about the default sentences. His question was: do absentee judgments not work counterproductively because they will be a reason for potential returners to disappear under the radar and go into illegality? I don't have that concern. We have already announced so extensively that returnees, as soon as they come into the picture, will be detained, interrogated and persecuted that there will be no misunderstanding that they will not be able to return to the Netherlands without impunity. That default judgment fits into that image but does not add any additional element to it. I have already said to Mr Recourt that it is added that, at the time we find a returner, we can at least ensure that it is immediately detained without having to go through a complicated procedure. Mr Monasch came back to his key question as to whether the cabinet has done enough in recent years to leave travellers there. In response to Mrs Van Toorenburg, I have already indicated that it is not a policy to pick people up. Just because IS is under enormous pressure, there is a good chance that more people will try to return to the Netherlands. Hence the whole range of measures, recently supplemented by the possibility to withdraw Dutch nationality in the event of a double nationality. In short, we do not actively pick up, but if someone with Dutch nationality asks for admission to the Netherlands, we cannot stop them. In this reality, we have prepared the whole range of measures to which the AIVD also referred last week. I hope I have answered the questions put to me, except for Mr Recourt's question which I shall come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr. Chairman. I would like to add a few additional points on my part. Most questions have naturally been answered by the Minister of V and J. Most of the questions were about the measures being taken. I refer to the brochure brought out by the AIVD. As soon as it comes to measures, it affects the portfolio of Mr van V and Mr J. It is well known that we occasionally go beyond secrecy with a publication in the form of an annual report. I'm allowed to refer to that. It often contains a lot of useful information. Every now and then people are alerted to and a well-founded level of knowledge about a potential threat is ensured. We have already brought out a great deal of information in this area. Much of what's in it is already known. However, there is reason to reflect this again and now. The situation has changed by falling back from IS, which in itself is good news. This increases the risk that people with that background could return to the Netherlands and pose a threat to the safety of the Netherlands. Although the course is difficult to predict, the AIVD expects a dropwise return rather than a load of people at once. That's what the note says. It has been asked whether the capacity of the AIVD is sufficient to monitor developments. That's not a new question. That has been mentioned many times. With every opportunity I take with me the budgets of the AIVD for the last 20 years. From the seat of the President we can also see that there is a monotonous increase of 50 million to over 200 million. This has also been the case in the past period. There was reason to. A lot's happened in those years. For example, a structural addition of 25 million per year was decided in 2014. In 2015, there was an addition of 40 million a year. The success of course has many fathers. These are budgets and they have all been shared with the Chamber. It is perhaps important to reiterate that I mentioned here in the 2016 budget that the AIVD has the capacity to do what needs to be done. Jihadism certainly has a high priority, even the highest priority. In the cabinet I agreed that if the AIVD told me that the work on counter-terrorism could not be done properly, I in turn would report it immediately to the Trêveszaal. My colleagues have informed me that this will not be without effect. We have the capacity to do what needs to be done. That is not news, but since it was referred to in the first term, I thought it appropriate to put that down for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u52	The minister comes up with that list more often, I always come up. Then I always say: this cabinet of PvdA and VVD wanted to cut 40% on the secret services. It wanted to abort the AIVD. The shadow of these cuts alone has resulted in the destruction of a lot of accumulated knowledge and skills and the abandonment of experts, especially ICT experts. A lot of capacity has been destroyed, which now needs to be built up with a lot of money. That money is there thanks to the opposition, which has been terribly behind the government in order to get those cuts off the table and make those investments possible. That's the end of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u53	That is what Mr Van Raak says all the time and I always answer that at that time also SP and CDA and most parties wanted to cut back on the security domain. As I said in my first contribution, success has many fathers. So I'm giving it to everyone. Let me add that Mr Van Raak always claims some sort of specific inside information about the formation of the AIVD. Now he does that again, by talking about very specific knowledge and so on. I never answer that, because he can't have that information. There is therefore no point in replying to this question for me either. There's a monotonous buildup in the formation. They're recruiting now, too. By the way, there is always a limit to the speed at which that can be done, because you have to screen people properly, because you have to work them well in the existing organisation, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u54	The Minister overestimates me. That specific knowledge, that specific input of Mr Van Raak, is simply from the supervisor, the CTIVD. It reports that in its public reports and also in its AIVD evaluations. So I'm not the only one who says that. It is not only the entire opposition that says so, but also the official supervisor, the CTIVD. We're in good company.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u55	Yeah, we also seem to agree on the capacity of the AIVD. So that's good. I have also said in a footnote that, should that become difficult, I will report it to the Trêveszaal. It will then be followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u56	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u57	On other occasions, we have already talked extensively about cooperation throughout the chain. The AIVD works intensively and at all levels with the other chain partners, to minimise the risks posed by the jihadist threat. The same applies to the risks of the returners. The AIVD also shares the information with the partners, where necessary and possible, so that they can act. In the European context, close cooperation and maximum information is shared within the Counter Terrorism Group, which was established on the Dutch initiative. By doing so, we ensure that when sharing information about terrorists, it does not really matter that we have different services within Europe. There is one file that works together 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. They asked how this now relates to the Intelligence and Security Services Act which was voted on this week or last week. I wouldn't have made the connection myself, but I'll come back to that. A law was passed in that vote which extends the powers. Of course, you can always use the following deceptions. You can say, well, all this interesting information we have could apparently be gathered on the basis of those old powers, so enlargement is not necessary. That is not a correct reasoning for four reasons; I have been writing for a while. Firstly, this information was not only collected by the AIVD. This information comes for some of the services we work with. And as Members know, the services of the countries around us, France, Germany, England and Belgium, also have the power to collect bulk information by cable. I will not spell this out in detail, but in part this information is also based on information gathered on the basis of those same powers. Secondly, of course, we only know what we know now. So we would like to know more; I will come back to that in a moment. Thirdly, technology is under development. We're seeing a growing security awareness, including among the groups we're talking about right now. A lot of people don't walk around all day with just one mobile phone with one SIM card. They switch and that makes it much harder to get a picture through the classic means. Fourthly, I would point out that this is precisely an area where you want to discover new nodes. That is precisely the reasoning behind this new law. We're not going to re-examine this new law here, Mr. Chairman. You want to see new nodes in that entire network of returners from jihad areas, of the people they are in contact with and of the people they are in contact with in the Netherlands. Just to find those nodes, it is so useful to get the whole network in view, including middlemen that you might never have gotten in the picture by direct approach. It is therefore extremely valuable and important. So I am also very pleased with the rather broad support of the Chamber. It is always a balance between national security interests and other considerations. Everyone, of course, is concerned with this: how do we make that assessment? I believe that this consideration has been properly made by the House of Representatives and that this is in the interests of national security. The questions about the numbers have already been answered by my colleague. So I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u58	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I note that there is a need for a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u59	Mr. Chairman. The last somewhat larger debate of this cabinet period is about exactly what is going on in the Netherlands, namely the fact that national security is under more pressure than ever before. If you've been watching this debate at home, you might think it was about B nurses' education, somewhere in the Achterhoek. It was tame, not much happened, one drank a glass, one did a puddle and everything remained as it was. But meanwhile there are still ticking time bombs in the Netherlands and people who have been in the caliphate are hardly persecuted. Thousands can also come to Europe and therefore to the Netherlands. Thanks to the open internal borders, I am talking about the internal borders of the Schengen area and they can still come to the Netherlands. But I do smell an interruption, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u60	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u61	Mr De Graaf felt that the debate was too tame. This debate was requested by Mr Wilders a few days ago. At that time the Chamber said: we can expect this debate to be mainly about things that we already knew, but we support the request because we all think this issue is important. That's how it happened. Then the PVV says: we are not sending the person who requested the debate. There can be good reasons for this, which I would like to hear from Mr De Graaf, because there must be absolutely no doubt about it, but he is essentially giving himself a motion of censure by saying that the debate is too tame. After all, the PVV has requested this debate and was warned that it would be about many things that we already knew, while it is good to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u62	I do not share Mr Verhoeven's observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u63	That's nice. I think I am asking in a very respectful way why the applicant for the debate is not here. There may be a reason for this; I would like to hear it, but the PVV has requested this debate with quite a lot of drum roll. Once again, the Chamber supported this request, because we consider this to be an important subject. I think we have talked about it thoroughly. So what went wrong in this debate that Mr De Graaf felt should have gone otherwise? Will he please just go into that in a substantive way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u64	If there's any reason to send someone or not, I'll keep those reasons to myself. It doesn't matter who's standing, there's someone from the PVV. In my opinion, that should be enough, like someone from D66, someone from the SP and someone from GroenLinks; at the moment they are in that order at the interrupt microphone. I have already explained why I said that I find the debate somewhat tame. The whole policy that has been discussed and the changes that may be coming I have barely sensed it look like: one drank a glass, one did a puddle and everything remained as it was. I've already reported that. I would have liked to have seen a little more fire to perhaps go in the direction of the PVV, a little more fire in defending the safety of the Netherlands, of national security. Yeah, I'm a little disappointed about that. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u65	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u66	Mr De Graaf may say that, but we have a debate. So I'm allowed to say something in return. If the debate is too tame, I will not, for once, blame it on the absence of the person who requested the debate and on the fact that Mr De Graaf is here on behalf of the PVV, but Mr De Graaf himself has today watered down the PVV's proposals. Mr De Graaf has said...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u67	Whoa, whoa. Whoa, whoa. No, no, definitely not. Mr President, may I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u68	Mr Verhoeven is not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr De Graaf can only make a point of order once I have made my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u70	Make your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr De Graaf has watered down the PVV's proposals today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u72	No, that's bullshit. Total bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u73	He said we're gonna close the borders. Then it was asked: how are we going to do that? Then he said: well, we are not going to put a wall or a fence around the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u74	There's never been a PVV man who claimed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u75	Wait a minute, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u76	Then he didn't make it clear how to do it. So Mr De Graaf himself has made the debate more tame and flatter by weakening the PVV's proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u77	I've never heard so much nonsense in my life. "Then answer me!" calls on Mr Verhoeven. Indeed, may I answer? Mr Verhoeven said it himself: it is a debate, so you can say something back. A frame has been set up.The VVD was the first and then D66 was happy to join us in the event that we are going to put a fence around the Netherlands. Find that in all the Acts and all the interviews. Mr Verhoeven is smiling, because of course he is glad that I have to name it. Oh, that's so cute! But then it's out of the world once and for all. I have explained clearly here and also to the interrupting microphone how we see and see border control. If Mr Verhoeven heard the word 'gate' in it, I do not know where he heard it. But he stands there believing in his own lies and is still enjoying them. Then you're just a liar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u78	Mr. De Graaf!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u79	Is this kind of theater what the PVV wants? Is Mr De Graaf then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u80	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u81	...satisfied? It's the last day before the election recess. That's a big day. Then there are a lot of things to discuss. At the request of the PVV, the President devoted a very large part of this day to this debate by the PVV. We're all in on it. We did that out of respect for the request that was made. We all knew that the information we had wasn't new. If you're a spokesperson in this area, you already knew all this. So what do we do? Seriously discuss a serious problem. I think we've all tried to make our contribution to this. If it has failed to make a number, then that is the problem of the PVV. And if the PVV finds it a pity that the House of Representatives is not a circus, then perhaps she should look up another tent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u82	Mr Van Raak is completely out of control. He can. It's okay in this room, too. It's not like we're here to make a number. I have just explained to Mr Verhoeven that I would have liked to have seen more fire in defending national security, including its content, and that I would have liked it to have gone a little further towards our proposals. You can be disappointed in that. I explained that in substance. I wonder what else is wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u83	I also found the contribution of the PVV somewhat tame. I have actually only heard a complete repetition of moves about something called 'a wall', a 'gate around the Netherlands' that is no longer a fence around the Netherlands. It was just the same racket again. I actually expected the PVV to come up with a solid plan to work on the safety of the Netherlands, but this still fits in with the one rule on the one A4' of your election programme. This still fits in the category "Wilders, make it concrete" of Lubach. I didn't hear any of it. The debate was tame. I don't need a splashy debate either, but if it was tame, it was because of the PVV itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mr Grashoff... Should I start at the beginning, or halfway, or at the end, or backwards? I actually think it's a bit of a nonsense text that comes out of GroenLinks. But, of course, that happens more often. I gave the answer to Mr Verhoeven and to Mr Van Raak. I will stand here, even after the elections, if I may be elected again, to ask for debates to ensure the safety of the Netherlands. GroenLinks is happy to keep the borders open. GroenLinks is okay with keeping everyone here who has evil intentions and also letting anyone who has evil intentions in. This indeed puts national security at serious risk to GroenLinks. We are critical of this. I would like to see measures to stop more people at the border. We do it our way. I will continue to have that debate and I will continue to make that proposal. That GroenLinks is okay with making the Netherlands unsafe, that's their thing. Fine. We'd like to have it safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u85	This is typical of the way the PVV conducts the debate: you name some kind of problem somewhere, but you don't come up with a solution, except for the mantra we've been hearing from the PVV for years and with which there is nothing new under the sun. The PVV is getting really boring. I believe the PVV may have had its longest time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u86	I can only laugh about that, at least if it wasn't so serious. I'm gonna pick up where I left off. I'm just gonna grab my glasses. Despite the fact that there are thousands of ticking time bombs in the EU and running loose, borders remain open. That's bad. As boring as Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks thinks it is that these boundaries remain open, I find it terrible. As I have just said, I will continue to ask for the closing of borders in the way I explained it and as PVV's have done for me, and not according to the simple children's frame of other parties. Mr President, I am ready. Typically, the last debate is about security. That's what I started. There has been no cabinet under which the Netherlands has become as unsafe as this cabinet. With this sad observation, I will conclude my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we have had this debate, because it is a very important subject where we are always trying to move forward, even today. We have talked about the fact that we prefer not to lead people back. I understand the Minister. He indicates that his position is actually alone: when that person has come into our hands, let us guide him. Then let us not say: there is the plane; go ahead yourself. Under that condition, we can understand. We still have difficulty with people returning, but we understand the reasoning. We have received an unsatisfactory reply on the standard of detention. We really think that we have had to wait too long for the legislation that makes that possible. I am very upset that it now seems that it is going to take longer, because the Labour Party wants that law to be broken up. I just read it on the Internet, and it's one bill. So I really ask the cabinet to submit the law to the Chamber as soon as possible. Then let's tear him apart in the event of a change. We don't have time to waste. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Government is preparing a bill which, inter alia, criminalises residence in a territory controlled by a terrorist organisation and extends the period of provisional detention for suspects of terrorist offences;]] [[Whereas this is an important legislative proposal in the fight against terrorism and the prevention of attacks by returned jihadists, particularly in view of the recent analysis by the AIVD on the expected increase of these returners;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Council of State to review the bill as quickly as possible after it has been sent to them, so that the Chamber can then treat it as a priority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-415]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u88	We'll review the motion. I think it is completely superfluous, because I think the cabinet has just said it, but Mrs Van Toorenburg needs to know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u89	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u90	My question is: if the CDA wants legislation so fast, why did the CDA do everything in its power to stop the initiative law of my colleague Vera Bergkamp on the regulation of pot growing endlessly? Why did the CDA just buy time? That's very selective, isn't it? That law is also good for safety in the Netherlands. It ensures that capacity can be used better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u91	That debate has already gone through a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u92	I'm really gonna do my best to answer very briefly. If the D.A. and the police say it's not gonna be safer, it's not gonna serve that purpose. Moreover, the CDA Group has done nothing to delay the legislative proposal. It merely wanted to ensure that it could be handled carefully with the relevant initiatives. But now that D66 is talking about an initiative proposal, I understand that the cabinet does not see any reason to send a bill to the Chamber on the criminalisation of glorification of violence, so we will have to take our own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u93	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the cabinet for answering the questions during this very special debate, because the last debate of this Chamber. Under the Rutte cabinet, a robust anti-terror package has been put in place, aimed at obstructing extravagants and not allowing returners to return. The VVD warmly supports the new measures announced by the Cabinet in connection with the pro-active approach of the prosecutor to condemn emigrated jihadists in absentia. We must continue to ask ourselves whether we are doing everything we can to minimise the risk of an attack. That is what everything is aimed at, and it is right to do so. I have heard the Minister say that the EU package that is coming is in line with the legislation we already have. There is therefore no need to adapt to our own legislation. That is good news, not only because it shows that the Netherlands is on steam, but also because there is no light between the package of the EP and what we are aiming for in the Netherlands. The glorification of violence when it comes to actually inciting terrorist activities is already punishable, I understand the Minister. As far as minors and children are concerned, the Minister is right to say that this is about tailor-made work. Every child who is now in the IS battle zone and who may return will be examined in each case. I think that's a wise approach. On the one hand, these children may still be saved; on the other hand, we cannot close our eyes to the potential danger posed by these children. I actually only have one request to the cabinet. Can the House of Representatives be kept specifically informed with regard to the 190 travellers so that it can also see what effect all the measures have? And can the Minister indicate how the criminal case will end on 23 March? That process can become exemplary for the new approach by the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u94	Mr. Chairman. Of the 50 returned jihadists, 40 are free and only three have been convicted. That is a very thin and frightening result. It's gonna take a lot more than that. Hard measures are needed, such as administrative detention. Furthermore, a substantial investment in safety is needed. That's why my party, VNL, invests 1 billion more in security that money goes to the police, the D.A. and the AIVD and 5 billion in defence. Part of that money goes to the military, to the anti-terror brigades and to the STUDY. That is what needs to be done: a substantial investment in safety for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u95	Mr. Chairman. Terrorists do not report with a passport at the border, but enter through international networks. Salafist organisations play an important role in these networks, also salafist organisations in the Netherlands. The AIVD's been investigating this for about ten years. A year and a half ago SP and VVD, Roemer and Zijlstra, asked for a list of salafist organisations to be made public. That still hasn't happened. I don't understand why. The Minister doesn't understand why. Yeah, there's got to be a new investigation, a list that's already there. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to implement the Roemer/Zijlstra motion adopted in due course (29754, No. 337) on the publication of a list of active Salafist organisations in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-416]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u96	Mr. Chairman. D66 focuses on the effectiveness of the measures and on their compatibility with the rule of law. We support what works and are critical of rhetoric and symbolism that does not work. As far as we are concerned, it is quite clear that returners are not treated with slings and whipped cream cake, as some parties wish to make it appear. They are arrested where necessary, there is evidence and they are tried instead of being made stateless and disappearing from the picture, which may pose even more danger to security. Also in the exchange and follow-up of data we see more than in building more datahooibergs in which no pin can be found anymore. We also think it is better to work through criminal law than through administrative measures. In this way, we always weigh up what we do and do not support. I have a few more questions about judgment by default. We are positive about the speed of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Minister himself has just said that it is primarily intended for times when it could not be otherwise. It's happening, of course. However, it is important that people know in the context of a fair trial that something is going on against them. It is therefore particularly important that the file-building by the Public Prosecutor's Office should continue to work properly, so that trial is possible. But defence under the rule of law and a fair trial must remain possible. I would like to have another reaction to that, but I believe that the Minister is going to do so anyway because of his promise to Mr Recourt to answer his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u97	There is a bit of an image that it would be contrary to the rule of law if a person were to be convicted in absentia. I have just asked the Court of Justice. 25% of the prosecution of offences in the Netherlands is simply by default. Will D66 suddenly stand up for terrorists and wonder if in absentia convictions are contrary to the rule of law? Because I've never heard D66 before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u98	This is questions about the familiar road. The answer is, of course, no. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that very well. D66 and all the other parties here all want the same thing. We want to ensure that terrorists cannot go their own way and guard the safety of Dutch people. We have a few questions about convictions in absentia. Mrs Van Toorenburg thought it was just another bright spot that I was positive about the speed of the prosecution. This is a measure that D66 looks at with an open eye, although we are critical of some other measures. Don't make it look like we're trying to protect terrorists every time. That's such a childish picture. That's bad for the discussion. In this way, we can never discuss the substance of the proposal. We think it's a good and sensible idea to look at what's possible, but you should know there's a case against you. You should also know that a fair trial, including a lawyer and sufficient evidence, is possible. I've asked questions about that evidence. Mrs Van Toorenburg knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u99	Precisely because we have so many debates, including with Mr Verhoeven of D66, and I have never heard him talk about problems in default, I found it remarkable that D66 suddenly, in the most dangerous category, namely the returning jihad-goers, makes a number of convictions in absentia. That's why I checked with the board. In 25% of the cases, it is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u100	I just didn't make a number of convictions in absentia. I don't think so. On the contrary, I have said very nuancedly that I am positive about the speed of the Public Prosecutor's Office and this initiative. I still have a number of substantive questions that concern the rule of law. That's all except making a song out of something. That's just a normal way of doing your parliamentary job. The only one who always makes a song of this kind of debate is Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u101	It's not gonna work out between the two of you today. Not just today, do I understand now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr. Chairman. I have three points. I shall begin where the other speakers ended up, namely in default. The starting point in our criminal law is that you are in person present at your conviction and you can defend yourself. But in order to prevent you from bypassing your conviction by hiding out or fleeing abroad, there is a default scheme. However, it has been designed with all kinds of regulations, meanings, publications in magazines and so on, so that someone who has fled can still be punished. However, something else is going on here. The government does not want that person to be present to defend themselves. That could be a different point of principle. My group is not against this by definition, but I am asking what is happening. What specific conditions are attached to this? What did the judge say about this? Is there perhaps a ruling from the European Court of Human Rights? I want you to find out exactly what the terms are. My second point is that government policy is good; two tracks to combat terrorism. The first is a tough fight now, the second is a good fight for prevention. Prevention is extremely important not to breed terrorists for the future. On the contrary, I wish the new cabinet to continue this preventive policy as an integral part of these two pillars. The Labour Party considers this to be very important. A connected society is a safe society. Finally, my third point. I thank the ministers, but after six and a half years I also thank the messengers, the clerks and all the staff of the Chamber for the past few years. I hope to see you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u103	Mr. Chairman. Although some say this debate is a bit tame, I think it is a useful debate. De facto, this is a real issue of returning jihad-goers and how we deal with it. After what we read in the letter and heard from the government in this debate, my group can very much agree with the focus on a criminal investigation at the earliest possible stage, including at the stage where people are not in the Netherlands. That's very good. That could lead to a lack of judgment. I wholeheartedly endorse Mr Recourt's questions and criticisms. I would like to stress once again that my group prefers to bring people to justice here so that we can also de facto lock them up directly and they do not walk around with a condemnation and we must hope that they will be caught up once. That seems better to us, but I would like a short response from the Minister. We can broadly agree with these efforts. This is the way we have to deal with this. I am glad that at least there are no capacity problems and that the government has also given clear guarantees. In this respect, I hope that the Netherlands will remain free from nasty attacks or worse. There can be no guarantee of this with any policy, but I believe that we are trying to minimize the chances with these efforts. I appreciate the efforts of both the government and the services and the police force working on this day in and day out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u104	Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister Rutte called for Syrians to be left there, and so did Mayor Aboutaleb. That is why I shall table the next motion of censure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the policy of the cabinet is aimed at returning and receiving Syrians;]] [[noting that neither in recent years nor now, government policy is aimed at keeping Syrians outside the Netherlands;]] [[noting that IS fighters have chosen to do so themselves from the Netherlands to Syria;]] [[having noted that the AIVD report points to the increasing danger of radicalised and violent Syrians returning to the Netherlands;]] [[considers that the return of Syrians to the Netherlands should be made impossible;]] [[rejects government policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Monasch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-417]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u105	I can only say if I can support the tabling of this motion if I can understand her. In all honesty, I don't understand the motion. Just as explicated from the mouth of a CDA, I don't understand why Mr Monasch is doing this. So if he can explain what the content of the debate has been on the basis of which he is tabling this motion, I can support its submission and then we will just vote it out. That is fine, but since I do not understand the motion now, I cannot say that I support its submission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u106	Let me just put it this way to Mr Monasch: this does not make sense, but I will at least support the tabling of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u107	This motion has every right to speak. I told you the whole letter is about getting back. In line with the words of Prime Minister Rutte and in line with the words of the Mayor of Rotterdam, Mr Aboutaleb, this motion rejects the policy of returning entirely instead of making it impossible for Syrians to come here. I think the majority of the Dutch people want what this motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u108	I try to follow the logic of the reasoning, but I cannot do that at all. The letter from the cabinet contains all kinds of measures that should make it impossible for the 190 jihadists who are now abroad to come to the Netherlands. That letter is packed with new measures. I don't follow the reasoning. How can you say this cabinet doesn't do anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u109	Because the letter contains the wrong starting point. The letter is based on return, and the motion and our appeal are based on making it impossible to return. That is what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u110	We have a law that withdraws the nationality of extravagants. We're going to criminalize residence on terrorist territory. I can mention the whole list here. So what have we been debating all morning? Where did this come from? Is this just as nice for the stage to table a motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u111	Yes, because the policy is based on the wrong starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u112	Yeah, so for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u113	If someone slips through the loopholes because we didn't notice and we didn't prevent it, then we have a set of measures for that, but the policy must be based on the principle that one doesn't return...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u114	That is the basis of this whole anti-terror package, Mr Monasch!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u115	Mr President, I thought I was speaking. The package of measures concerns people who may come here, but the policy is based on the wrong starting point. It should focus on prevention rather than return and reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u116	Although I disagree with Mr Monasch's whole thinking, I think this is just a motion that is logically on the agenda for this debate and we can just vote on it later. So I really don't know why we should make that a formal point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u117	I have never been childish with motions so far, and I myself have also tabled a few motions of mistrust that I supported and supported, but here I also miss the hook, to be honest. However, I would like to give Mr Monasch the very best, so I support the tabling of his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u118	Is the submission of this motion now sufficiently supported? I note that this is the case. I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice for his answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u119	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Graaf was not entirely happy with the debate, but he did not put forward any motion or new proposals. So I can't answer him any further. Mrs Van Toorenburg has tabled a motion asking the government to ask the Council of State to assess the bill as quickly as possible after it has been sent to them, so that the Chamber can then treat it as a priority. In any case, it is my intention to bring this law to the Chamber as soon as possible. So I can leave this motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u120	Sometimes the cabinet asks the Council of State to deal with it a little more quickly. That is, of course, the thrust of this motion so that the Chamber can discuss it as soon as possible. If it is still going to be judgment Chamber, I think it is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u121	As Mrs Van Toorenburg knows, I can ask questions, but the Council of State itself judges. So if we understand each other correctly in that area, I'll leave the motion to judge Chamber. Mrs Tellegen asked whether the Chamber could remain informed of the measures taken against the 190 well-known travellers. I intended to keep the Chamber regularly informed of the progress of the terrorism approach. This group will therefore play a role in this process over and over again. Mr Bontes was not entirely happy either, but he did not come up with any motions or any additional questions. Mr Van Raak tabled a motion asking the government to implement the Roemer/Zijlstra motion on the publication of a list of active Salafist organisations. I've already indicated that we're going to have the WODC investigate that. In this way, I can leave the motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u122	I just read the motion again. That motion doesn't say that there should be an investigation, by anyone. The motion tabled by Mr Roemer and Mr Zijlstra a year and a half ago merely states that the list, which is already available, of the organisations to which the AIVD has been carrying out research for ten years is being made public. They didn't ask for an investigation, they asked for disclosure. The government has been refusing to do so for a year and a half and that should be the end of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u123	Yeah, that's too bad. I would now like to respond to Mr Van Raak by saying that I would like to leave the motion he has tabled to the House's opinion. And then he raises the same point as he raised earlier, that he wants to see a list of the AIVD made public. I have already indicated that the AIVD will not do so and that we are therefore choosing a route in which we do respond to the wishes of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u124	It's really talking to a wall. It's a list. The AIVD has been researching salafistic organizations or anyone for years... it doesn't matter. At least in the Netherlands we know which salafistic organizations are there, because that is what research is being done. That can't be classified information. It's just a list of names of organizations. I don't understand why an investigation should be carried out and why that should be a state secret, especially since the minister says at the same time that the WODC is going to do an investigation to ensure that eventually, in two or three years' time, there will be how long it will take? A list will be drawn up. I just don't get it. There's no need for an investigation. There is a need for a list of organisations that are known to the government, no matter where, which can simply be made public, there is nothing state-secret about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u125	It will not surprise Mr Van Raak if he asks the same question four times, that he also receives the same answer four times, namely that no lists of the AIVD are published. If Mr Van Raak does not accept the interpretation I give to his motion, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u126	It was first judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u127	The minister here suggests that I want a list of the AIVD, that I want to disclose classified information from the AIVD. It shouldn't get any weirder now. I am simply asking for a motion that has been there for a year and a half, a motion from Mr Halbe Zijlstra and Mr Emile Roemer to make a list of well-known organisations public. The government knows which salafist organizations are in the Netherlands. Now I hear excuses again. Now I see a twist again. Now I'm seeing trouble again. I'm starting to think that's a little weird. What's this all about? What political interests have found that there has been talk of a list lying somewhere in a desk in a ministry for a year and a half...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u128	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u129	...and who can't go public?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u130	This question is now repeated for the umpteenth time. I think there's a difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u131	The President is as keen on her perceptiveness as I thought he was before. This question has been asked before. Mr Van Raak invited me to read the Acts again. This opportunity exists for everyone, so that everyone can read again that Mr Van Raak did refer to the information available at the AIVD. Once again, I had hoped to meet Mr Van Raak, but with his own explanatory statement I must discourage the motion. I come to Mr Verhoeven's question on in absentia. Mr Recourt also asked questions about this. Mr Verhoeven specifically asked how to ensure that a suspect is made aware of the trial. The person it's about should be subpoenaed. The subpoena is offered at the known home or residence address. That's a serious attempt. If the person subsequently fails to appear, the court may in default proceed and, if necessary, sentence. Mr Recourt asked what benefits should be met. There is no list, because as Mr Recourt knows, the judge in the Netherlands is ultimately independent. In any case, he will ensure that the requirements of the ECHR are met and that the subpoena is done carefully, as I have just outlined. If these requirements are met, it is not unusual in the Netherlands to condemn in absentia. Mrs Van Toorenburg also pointed that out. The court in The Hague has already come to judgment in absentia of persons who are in the jihadist battle zone. Mr Grashoff once again raised the question of whether or not to return. I've already indicated that the government will not launch a return operation. When people of Dutch nationality report that they want to return, they have the right to be admitted to the Netherlands but will be arrested and prosecuted. Finally, Mr Monasch has tabled a motion of censure, which I would like to see...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u132	That motion is in the Chamber. You don't have to judge that, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u133	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u135	I was about to go free, but that opportunity is now being taken away from me! Then I hope I have answered the remaining questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u136	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-23-tweedekamer-10.u137	I would like to thank the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. We shall be voting on the motions tabled tonight.
