ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and give Mr Voordewind the floor on behalf of the Christian Union as the first speaker. The speaking time shall be four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. On April 4, a horrible poison gas attack took place on the village of Khan Sheikhoun. 90 people were killed and hundreds were seriously injured. We saw images of people in severe respiratory distress. We knew those images from 21 August 2013 near Damascus. In the meantime we are two weeks further and the Americans carried out a rocket attack on the Syrian Air Force base Shayrat on 7 April, already three days later. Both incidents led the Christian Union to this debate. In the previous poison gas attack, America drew a red line. The result was not an attack, but the removal of all of President Assad's chemical weapons, at least that's what we thought at the time. Now America will strike back with an attack. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed letter on this matter. The Netherlands says it understands the American action. That's a warning to Assad that the use of poison gas is never possible, as the Prime Minister said. The letter states that when chemical weapons are used, an appropriate warning is appropriate. Assad's regime needs to know that the use of chemical weapons has consequences, the Minister writes in his letter. With this, the cabinet seems right to think that Assad has been hit. I do have the following questions to the Minister. First of all, does this text imply political support for the American counterattack? The statements seem to me to go a little further than just showing understanding of the attack. I would like a clarification on that point. Several allies apparently provide information to the Netherlands about the Assad regime, which would be responsible for the use of chemical weapons. According to Minister Koenders, the cabinet finds that plausible. How hard is that evidence from the allies? Wasn't one of the previous lessons of the Davids Commission on the political support that the Netherlands gave to the American attack on Iraq that the Netherlands should not be blinded to information from third parties, from allies, but that the Netherlands should have to collect evidence itself or at least have seen evidence itself? Why does the Netherlands now assume that the allies are right? Has the Netherlands seen the evidence itself? If the Netherlands is already convinced that Assad is responsible for the chemical attack of 4 April, why is the Netherlands still pressing for an investigation on the ground to find out, I assume, who the perpetrator is? I would like to get an explanation on that point, because I cannot place both very well. The cabinet's commitment is to come up with an international investigation into the perpetratorship of the poison gas attack on April 4th. That would be wise. The OPCW's investigation only leads to the finding that chemical weapons have been used, that poison gas would have been used, but the OPCW does not determine who the perpetrator would have been. Does the government see any possibility of having a resolution on this, for example by Italy, now a member of the UN Security Council? I am considering an encouraging motion on this point. I'm coming on the attack myself. Does the Minister believe that war law must have been properly implemented under all conditions before military action is justified? Does the Minister think that this action will bring the warring parties closer together in order to reach a lasting solution in the end? In short, will this action reduce the suffering of the civilian population in the future? According to the Christian Union, that must be the crucial question. Would it not have been desirable that a broad international consensus had first been created, as the law of war dictates, before the Americans had taken action? According to these rules, would it not have been more desirable for international investigations into the crime to have been carried out first? What plan will the Americans have with the military action? What is the Minister's assessment, possibly based on the information he's had from his allies? Will the Americans once again bomb the Assad regime when Assad launches another major attack, either with barrel trees or with poison gas? In the end, how does the Minister assess the attitude of this new President? On the one hand, America is first, on the other hand, there is a bomb on Afghanistan, threats with an attack on North Korea and now the attack on Syria. How does the Minister now assess the President of America's attitude?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. A terrible war has been going on in Syria for four years. It is a humanitarian catastrophe with more than 400,000 deaths and millions of refugees. Two weeks ago, the country was once again spooked by a gruesome attack. In the early morning of April 4th, chemical weapons exploded in Khan Sheikhoun. Nearly 90 civilians died, including many children. The horrible images burn on your retina. The indignation about this barbarity is rightly very great. It was yet another tragic low in a lingering war. Obama drew a red line but then let it cross. Putin and others stepped into this vacuum. In the fog of this war, and also in the fog of other wars, the truth is often lost first. There's a lot of propaganda, fake news and lies. Independent research on the ground is often difficult. Following the agreement on the dismantling of the regime's chemical weapons, there have been chemical attacks. I'm referring to the previous attacks in 2013. The UN and the OPCW are investigating dozens of cases. In a number of cases it has been proven that the Syrian army has used chlorine gas, chlorine. An attack by ISIS with mustard gas has also been proven. The jihadists also have chemical weapons. The big question is therefore: who attacked on 4 April? The Syrian Air Force bombed the affected area on the day in question, but it is unclear what exploded on the ground, how it happened, who did it and why. Sarin is smelly, colourful and tasteless. Eyewitnesses spoke of smell and colored clouds. An independent investigation has only just begun. My question to the Minister is whether the cabinet has been in contact with the Americans and whether any evidence or other intelligence has been shared with the Netherlands. Is a false flag operation conceivable, or the accidental bombing of a depot? At the moment, our group cannot assess whether the evidence is convincing and credible. The question is what is the appreciation of the cabinet in this regard. Can the Minister outline what the analysis of our own intelligence services is? After all, the Americans, according to the Minister in his letter, indicated with a high degree of certainty that the attack could be attributed to the Syrian regime. At the same time, we will have to wait a few weeks for the results of the OPCW-certified laboratories. How does this relate to each other? Even convincing evidence is not in itself a legal basis for unilateral military intervention, according to the international advisor in 2013. Our group supports the government's line when it says it understands Trump's action. No conviction, but no open political support either. That seems to us premature, given the lack of clarity about the attribution. However, support for the call for de-escalation. Hopefully the warnings will be effective. The question is what Trump's strategy is now for Syria. This also applies to a number of other dossiers, but let us limit it here to Syria. In a short time, the President of the United States has turned 180 degrees. Just a few weeks ago, the White House made it clear that Assad didn't have to leave, but now he has to leave and Trump doesn't rule out any further actions. How risky is a regime change? Should the West not learn lessons from what has happened in Iraq and Libya? If we play the Air Force for Al-Qaeda, the chaos will only get bigger. Then genocide threatens Christians and other minorities. Does the Minister share this view? Trump's tomahawks have also shaken the entire geopolitical house of cards in Syria. Tensions with Russia and Iran have increased and this can lead to escalation elsewhere. Countries such as Saudi Arabia and Turkey once again insist on the fall of Assad. The jihadists feel strengthened. A political solution for Syria now seems to be farther away than ever. What does that mean for the fight against ISIS? How do we proceed with that? The EU is on the sidelines. High Representative Mogherini goes to Moscow on April 24th. What would her message be towards the Russians? After all, they put the UN Security Council on strong water and have the key in their hands. What can we do? Give full support for independent international research. The OPCW has launched an investigation into the chemical weapons used. Is there a follow-up given to find out what happened and who did it? If so, how and what can the Joint Investigative Mechanism of the UN and OPCW do on the ground in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Loyal allies Israel and the United States say they are convinced on the basis of established facts: Assad again deployed chemical weapons against his own people on 4 April last. The Israeli Minister of Defence even said that he was 100% convinced of it, but other allies, including France, also explained this in similar terms. It will not surprise the PVV if Assad has behaved horribly again, because mass murder is a tradition in that Assad family. The same applies now to the use of chemical weapons. According to the OPCW, the Syrian regime has deployed it three times before. The PVV therefore sees in Assad a populace of the worst and most cowardly species. Are all the facts and evidence on the table regarding the horrific event on 4 April? That is not yet the case. There is still a bit to be cleared up. For this reason, the PVV naturally welcomes the fact that the OPCW is investigating this properly and independently. As far as military intervention by the US is concerned, the PVV is clear. In our opinion, intervention in a sovereign state is only permitted in the event of extreme necessity. I ask the government whether it believes that this has indeed been the case here. I would like an explanation of this. Then there is the question of how to carry out this widely supported OPCW study. Can that still take place in an independent and expert way between those steaming ruins of that inter-Islamic conflict? I have two comments to make. Firstly, in his letter, the Minister states that there is a division within the Executive Board of the OPCW. Is this division likely to prevent research? What can be done to remove this division? Secondly, shortly after the poison gas attack, the media reported that Russian or Syrian fighter planes have destroyed the location of the poison gas attack with conventional bombs. The crime scene would have been completely crushed and the evidence wiped out. What can the Minister tell us about that? The PVV supports the government's efforts to ensure that research is also aimed at identifying who is responsible for the poison gas attack. Whatever the OPCW is about to conclude, the US has struck hard. 20% of Assad's fighter jets would have been destroyed. Legitimate attack or not, the polyp will change his mind the next time before he re-attaches poison gas. In any event, the PVV considers this to be a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u5	Before you go any further, Mr Ten Broeke has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u6	I have been standing here for some time, because I would also like to put an interesting question from Mr De Roon to him. He asked the government whether it would indicate the use of chemical weapons and the subsequent military attack by the Americans as an absolute necessity. I would like to know what the explanation of the PVV Group is. If possible, I would ask Mr De Roon to give that answer in the light of the fact that a diplomatic solution was chosen in 2013 when Syria was not yet a signatory to the Chemical Weapons Convention. Those are actually the two main elements in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u7	We all do not want the use of poison gas weapons. The government also writes that the use of weapons is contrary to international law. I agree with that. I therefore share Mr Ten Broeke's view on this point, as is apparent from his question. We must regard a poisonous gas attack as something that must not happen. But then the question arises as to whether the response is correct and proportionate. I would also like to hear the government's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u8	Yeah, but we can judge that ourselves. It is interesting to know what the PVV Group thinks about this. The airport from which probably those chemical weapons were launched was in use that same day. In that sense, you could say that it was an extremely limited military operation. That is certainly proportional, at least in my view. You should also see this intervention in the light of the fact that the Americans chose the political and diplomatic trail in 2013. They were seduced by Assad's sponsor, Russia. Moreover, Russia is the country that has stopped that investigation that we are all about to ask for twice in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u9	You will have four minutes, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u10	I can, of course, go a long way along with Mr Ten Broeke's reasoning. But I note that in the letter we received, the government does not do that. It does not take that last step and does not say that this is indeed such a case of extreme necessity for reasons which the government then explains. That is what I would like to hear, hence my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u11	Proceed, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u12	Just a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u13	Proceed, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u14	Meanwhile, Syria remains a hell for many residents. While the Netherlands was preparing for a beautiful Easter weekend, aid workers in Syria searched for blackened human remains, often of women and children, who sat in buses were the victims of an all-destructive bomb car. The poison gas attack on April 4 had the signature of Assad, but the bomb car was of course a terrorist attack. That is why we must remain aware that the fight against terrorism must continue in Syria. No matter how terrible, the recent poison gas attack must not distract attention from that. In this respect, it is clear that the anti-ISIS coalition continued its fight against the Islamic State in the same way after a short break. But what about the other terror group, Al-Qaeda? Are these terrorists, who are often more sophisticated than the Islamic State, still being dealt with by the coalition? We get reports from the media that Al-Qaeda is completely swallowing up the so-called moderate opposition in Syria. Can the Minister confirm that image? Can it be guaranteed that Dutch non-lethal material support to Syrian rebels will not fall into the bloodthirsty hands of these Al-Qaeda terrorists?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the United States attack on a Syrian airport because of a horrible poison gas incident. An estimated 90 people were killed. The use of chemical weapons is brutal and inhuman, a war crime to be accounted for. Does the Minister agree that first of all independent researchers should be given the facts? As we know, the United States, led by President Trump, launched nearly 60 missiles at a Syrian air base after a few days. That is a lot like a rash action which the Minister should condemn. First of all, because no convincing evidence has been provided for the assumption that Assad is responsible for the use of poison gas. Or does the Minister have one? I can't find it in his letter of April 15th. Others also ask questions about this, such as the Amsterdam VVD council member Hala Naoum Néhmé last Sunday in Buitenhof. The same applies to various scientists, former weapons inspectors and people from the American intelligence community. They have serious reservations about the assumption that the Syrian regime would be behind the attack. I don't have the truth, Mr. Chairman, and it's hard to appreciate all those assumptions. Can the Minister and, if so, how? If not, isn't his political stance to understand Trump's attack somewhat premature? Shouldn't he wait for careful investigation first? This, uh, what's the status of the ongoing investigation? Is there access to the crash site? Is the basis bombed by the United States also being investigated? I also ask the Minister how the American attack relates to international law. According to the UN Charter, such an attack is only legitimate from self-defense or with a mandate from the UN Security Council. There was no question of either. There is therefore no international mandate for this action, which makes the attack de facto illegal. Does the government share that opinion? The American attack is also rash because it can provoke violent reactions from countries such as Russia and Iran. We have already seen that the Russians temporarily suspended their coordination in the airspace. Furthermore, Russia and Iran are threatened with counter-attacks if new attacks occur. In short, geopolitical tension is increasing. The conflict can easily escalate further. It's playing with fire. The use of chemical weapons is unacceptable and at the same time an ill-thought-out response can exacerbate the problems. This attack by Trump, for example, can play into the hands of the jihadists. Does the Minister recognise that this action increases the risk of accidents, which can have far-reaching consequences? Cross missiles will not advance Syrians. What's to be done? We must break military logic and stick to the United Nations and international law. The international community must commit itself to a ceasefire and a resumption of the peace talks, so that the struggle for everything or nothing that is taking place is broken. We must insist that the United States address its allies Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey on their responsibility to stop their support for jihadists. Firstly, there must be an arms embargo for these countries so that more weapons do not fall into the hands of the jihadists. Russia and Iran must also, of course, cease their support for Assad. Instead of showing understanding for rash actions, we must look for the facts and warn against the great geopolitical consequences that this attack may have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u16	According to the speaker, we must abide by international law. I therefore understand that he is looking for an international mandate for American action. For example, there is no mandate from the Security Council. Does the SP now also consider that, despite the absence of such an explicit mandate, in cases of extreme necessity, there is also the possibility of intervening in the events in another country?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u17	That is a complicated discussion, but I do not say no in advance. There are scenarios in which that might be possible. In this case, I would like to stress that we believe that Trump has used the wrong order, namely to carry out a bombing and then to see what comes out of the investigation. As far as we are concerned, this should at least have happened the other way around, if such a bombing could be legitized.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u18	I find the last part of the answer a little difficult. If you have to wait and see what comes out of an investigation while fighting there, then there can be countless more poisonous gas attacks before you perhaps know that we have not yet been able to determine with certainty who has committed the poison gas attack and whether it has been there. Can Mr Van Dijk not imagine that Mr Trump has said: I have enough factual evidence to believe that this poison gas attack has taken place, and that is why I must intervene now and not wait until there have been 20 more of these attacks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u19	No, it's obvious that I'm not going along with that reasoning. Frankly, there is also a huge inconsistency in Mr De Roon's question and in Trump's reasoning. Mr De Roon implicitly acknowledged in his question that it is not clear who is responsible for this attack. Trump said: I'm not sure who did it yet, but I'm going to bomb and I'm going to attack a certain perpetrator. That is the reasoning he has used. I think that is extremely irresponsible, and I appeal to the investigation that is still taking place. That seems much better to me than this kind of rash action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u20	We're pretty sure it was a poison gas attack.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u22	Even Trump speaks of "high probability," as I read in the Minister's letter. That's not 100% certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr. Chairman. In the Westhoek of Flanders there is a beautiful and impressive museum about the First World War. That museum is in Ypres. Whoever visits the museum will receive a bracelet containing digitally stored stories of 400 witnesses and victims of World War I. You will be accompanied by French, Flemings, Walen, Germans and British from then on. What binds all these people is that they have been both witnesses and victims of the first time in history that the most horrible of all weapons has been deployed: poison gas, in this case chlorine gas, there in the trenches at Ypres. In order to prevent the use of this horrible weapon in the future, the Geneva Protocol was signed in 1925. It established a ban on chemical weapons. That ban has become the norm for a civilisation border, a lower limit for warfare. If a lower limit is defined by something, it is by the fact that crossing a lower limit must have consequences in the interests of our civilisation. I think we can all remember very well the summer of 2013. Almost a century after the trenches of the First World War, this standard was exceeded in East Ghouta, a Syrian suburb of Damascus. More than 1,400 Syrians then found a gruesome death by chemical weapons, a death that we had all banished to the darkest pits of history. Despite the red line of the then President Obama, the use of this terrible weapon was not sanctioned and the crossing of this civilisation line was not rewarded. The result was that the greatest villains of this world were told that they could get away with this and that the norm could be exceeded without penalty, for they no longer had to fear retribution. Two weeks ago, after yet another poison gas attack, this time on Khan Sheikhoun and this time with 89 deaths, the Americans decided to maintain the red line of 2013. The horrific massacre was yet another proof that Syria has not been stripped of chemical weapons, despite all diplomatic efforts. The VVD has constantly expressed its doubts about this in recent years. This was true both for the opposition and for the regime. It should not surprise anyone that the VVD not only finds this very limited military attack by the Americans understandable but also supports it. The attack was also necessary because the road was again blocked through the UN Security Council, including for an investigation, precisely by the country which in 2013 managed to seduce the Americans to that diplomatic trail. That proved to be a deception in retrospect. Then it is up to the countries that can do that, the responsibility to do what they failed to do in 2013. This did not violate international law, but enforced it, because the primacy of the Security Council and the convention, already signed by 193 countries, including Syria, is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u25	Mr Ten Broeke is actually saying that what the Americans have done is right. He therefore expressed his support. The cabinet doesn't go that far, because that says that research is still needed to find out who did this. Doesn't he agree with the cabinet that that investigation still needs to be done? After all, he himself says: I already know that Assad did it; legitimate action by the Americans; political support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u26	This is a repeat of the discussion in 2013. On the subject of the investigation, we agree: I would also have preferred an investigation, but I note that the investigation has been blocked twice in a Security Council resolution by precisely the party which in 2013, using diplomacy, prevented the Americans from repaying that standard. This therefore entails responsibility for the parties who then opted for that track. This only increases the urgency of repaying that standard, especially in the light of the fact that since 2013 we have seen proliferation of the use of this weapon, not only of chlorine gas, which is what I call the house-garden and kitchen use of chemical weapons, but also of VX and mustard gas, for example in northern Iraq by ISIS and even in Sudan. This means that retaliation was now required and, as far as I am concerned, takes precedence over following the Security Council. You cannot be surprised at the latter, because you know our position on the conclusions of the Davids Committee. These conclusions are not shared by this cabinet. That is where we deviate, and I am always saying this: together with the SGP. Two parties have been consistent in this. I now see from many colleagues that they would have liked to take up that position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u27	Nevertheless, Mr Ten Broeke quite clearly says here that Assad did it. He also expressed his support for the action of the Americans. Apparently, he has undisputed evidence that the cabinet doesn't yet have. The cabinet has only received information from allies, but is not yet so sure that it comes to the same conclusion. So my question is what independent sources of information the VVD or Mr Ten Broeke has. We know he has a wide network, but I didn't know his influence was so great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u28	On Mr Voordewind's network there is absolutely nothing to be done; he has been in this area more often if possible. We both know the horrors of Assad's regime. I have just made it very clear that Syria has not been disarmed. I have added that this applies both to the Assad regime and to the rebels. But then we come to the question of who had the opportunity to deploy these weapons by air, because it happened by air. Those are actually only two parties: the Air Force of Assad and the Russians. The Russians were furious about this effort; so it could hardly have been them. Then we also know that there was an offensive of rebels in the exact area where the weapons were deployed. The answer had to be given. On the basis of intelligence that has come out, these are not my sources or my network, but public sources that Mr Voordewind can also consult and all colleagues with him have found that there have been contacts within the Syrian regime. Those have been eavesdropped and could show that they have done so. I am not going to make a judgment, but I do think that if you cannot investigate because the Security Council opposes it, you should dare, because of the importance of this standard, to support this military attack, and I am doing so. Mr Voordewind knows our position. I am always prepared to look endlessly for an international mandate, or let me put it more precisely and use the wording of the Davids Commission: an adequate international mandate. That is a mantra that everyone here supports, but the SGP and the VVD embrace the position of Van Walsum who is different from that of this cabinet, namely that we at long last do not want to put the security of the world in the hands of a Chinese veto or a Russian veto, especially when it comes to such matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u30	The decision on the use of force, the making of dirty hands for achieving security, I have already said it to Mr Voordewind................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr De Roon spoke of extreme necessity. If the international rule of law erodes, security will disappear, including our security. This action has increased and not reduced safety. The action has given the bullies of the world the message that the Americans are serious. China's assertive attitude towards North Korea already speaks volumes in this respect. It is also in our interest to ensure that Western action, including the Americans, is characterised by predictability and not by randomness. This requires that we not only maintain ultimate standards, but that we also have a strategy on the basis of them. Although a signal has been given with this attack, no solution has been enforced in any way. The situation is as hopeless as it was before. Since this attack has sent out a signal and no solution has been enforced, we cannot therefore give a licence for the use of the Americans whose strategy is completely unclear at the moment. The question for the government is therefore what it is doing to clarify and identify this strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u31	Mr. Chairman. Much has already been said by previous speakers, but it cannot be said often enough how terrible the tragedy is in Syria. The fact that no one is safe from the fearless terror of Assad, who starves his own people, who forces his own people to eat grass, who bombs schools, bombs aid convoys and bombs shelters; who used poison gas against his own people, and who most likely, with a high probability, did again two weeks ago, and then again bombed the hospital where the victims and survivors of this terrible attack were treated. Assad is considered a tyrant with only two instruments: death and destruction. The chemical attack puts us in a rather diabolical dilemma. It also emerged in the little debate between Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Voordewind. On the one hand, there was President Obama: he had a pretty clear strategy in Syria and drew a clear red line in the use of chemical weapons, but he did not have the willingness to actually maintain that red line. As a result, chemical weapons have been re-launched in Syria, despite Syria's mandate by the Security Council and despite that red line. This happened not only in Syria, but also in Sudan and Iraq. I would like to say 'that almost sacred standard', even though I myself am an atheist, tragically and dangerously hollowed out. On the other hand, erratic and quick intervention, a lightning action without strategy, brings great risks. To anyone who says "we must condemn it," I say that I find it too easy. To all those who say that we should take it without a hitch, I say that in this case it is simply too simple. From that point of view, I understand that the cabinet has said that it understands this proportional action. For the action was proportional: 59 cruise missiles aimed at an airport of Assad. However, there are serious questions and I think colleagues have also asked serious questions that this Minister will have to answer. The first point concerns Trump's fickleness and the consequences of Trump's policy. A few days before the poison gas attack, Trump was convinced that Assad could stay put, that he didn't have to leave. This led to indignant reactions in several European capitals, but after that attack Trump fortunately changed his position and confirmed in the G7 that Assad really has no future in Syria. The question is whether this is a line that is solid. Is this a line that lasts longer than a few days or several weeks? Can we rely on the predictability of this line? That brings me to the second point. This attack may potentially perpetuate an important standard. The question then is what happens when chemical gas is used again. Trump has indicated that he wants to intervene again. Is that gonna happen? Has this been discussed in a broader context? Is that something this cabinet supports? And even wider: is this going to help resolve the conflict in Syria? Does it fit into a broader strategy? The great disturbing thing is, of course, that anyone who speaks to American officials in Washington says that there is no strategy. How does this minister see this strategy? In view of the lack of such a strategy and the existence of such a fickleness, I would ask this Minister what that means for our own foreign policy and for European policy. Does this not mean that the role of the European Union, which is now painfully absent, needs to be changed dramatically as a matter of urgency? I see I've run out of time, Mr. Chairman. All the way to the end. Russia has wanted to block all these investigations, the fact-finding missions and the UN resolutions on the basis of a'lie-like argumentation'; let me put it this way. If you want to release Russia from Assad, it must have consequences at some point. My group has often advocated sanctions in the past. Maybe that was annoyance to this minister or to other parties in this Chamber, but I would like to ask this minister what other methods he sees at the moment to release Putin from Assad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u32	In the debate with Mr Sjoerdsma, I will not go into my annoyance with the use of sanctions against Russia, but I say that there is actually a better solution than looking directly at the Russians. This is a solution which encourages the Americans to do, as one of the members of the Security Council, what few in the international community have been given. If you have let yourself be tempted to the diplomatic trail, but research and thereby an international mandate is made impossible, then at least at this lower limit, which Mr Sjoerdsma's sacred standard, should follow retaliation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u33	That's what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u34	But then you support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u35	I understand that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u36	Understanding is one thing; I also understand people who make a mistake. But do you support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u37	I just tried to sketch that. We have just talked about this: as an isolated action, as something that can potentially restore the standard, to prevent the use of chemical weapons. But can you speak of support for something you don't know or are part of a broader strategy? Can you speak of support if you don't know what President Trump's gonna do in a week? I think that's dangerous. I therefore find it dangerous to say in advance that this is a retribution for the sake of that standard. This is how Trump himself unfortunately hasn't explained it eloquently. He talked about "beautiful babies" and the emotions that came loose from him. I get that, because we all felt those emotions. But unlike Mr Ten Broeke, Trump did not say very clearly that this was to uphold a standard. If he had, if he had, it would have been easier to say that this was clearly a systematic and strategic decision that could be supported. But to say right now that you support this... You don't know what you're supporting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mr. Chairman. Anyone who saw the horrible images of the poison gas attack on 4 April can hardly understand other than the American reaction from a few days later. I said that on behalf of my group on the day of the American reaction. However, more is needed to support such action, as has already been demonstrated by the various debates that colleagues have just had. Support calls not only for support under international law, but also for a clear strategy which prevents the repetition of such a poison gas attack and which calls to account the culprits of such a poison gas attack. That's essential. The OPCW is now investigating the poison gas attack on the scene. This concerns exactly which weapons were used and, perhaps afterwards, a little more insight into who the perpetrators might be. I would like to hear from the Minister how he estimates that opportunity, so whether he sees perspective in that second phase of the investigation, which not only identifies what weapons were used but also who might have used them. I think it is even more important that the agreement on the removal of chemical weapons from Syria, concluded in 2014 with the involvement of Russia and the US, should this be possible, be revived. This is obviously urgently needed. The end of this war isn't getting any closer because of one American attack, or because of an attack by anyone. The only solution is inclusive peace talks. Perhaps the Minister could fill me in and clarify this. I see three instruments, or fora, in which these negotiations are still taking place or could take place. Those are three instruments of diplomacy. That's how we have the Geneva trial. That actually seems to lie still, waiting for something that might come from Astana or from other things. Perhaps the Minister could give us some more information. And we recently have the EU strategy, the second instrument I see. I must honestly say that I am not yet clear on the basis of what work agreement, division of labour or concreteisation that EU strategy can take on weight. As far as I know, we still have the contact group. The Netherlands is in that contact group, as is Russia and the US. It would be interesting to hear from the Minister again whether that has become just a ritual talking circuit. I believe that the contact group still meets formally once a week. Does the Minister see opportunities to revitalise the inclusive peace process? That is what is and must be done in the end. From the poison gas attack it became clear once again that this weekend also became clear by the bombing in Aleppo that there is no Syrian safe in Syria, anywhere, anytime. This calls once again for us to ask questions about the situation of refugees. Is there more to be done in that area? Can vulnerable refugees, for example, still leave Idlib Province or are they locked up there? Can more logistical support be given to the evacuation of refugees from the international community? Shouldn't much more work be done on the resettlement of refugees, vulnerable refugees, if you like, from Syrian territory? I hope that the Minister will be able to answer some of these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u39	As horrible as that poison gas attack was, I explained on behalf of my party that I do not support or understand Trump's reaction after three days. According to my party, it is right to say: investigate first and then see what could be a legitimate reaction. Do you share that analysis, or do you maintain your understanding of Trump's actions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u40	There is indeed a difference between the preparation of the SP and the preparation of GroenLinks. I have, like a number of colleagues, made a distinction between understanding and support. I said that more is needed for support. However, I stick to what I said then and what I said now, even though the SP does not agree with me, namely that at that time I understood very well that something had to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u41	Does Mr Van Ojik recognise that this can lead to very dangerous situations? Mr Trump knew after three days that it was Assad and thus legitimized his bombing. The investigation is still ongoing. There are many experts who question the course of events. I wasn't there, and I don't think Mr Van Ojik was there either. Isn't it much more appropriate to wait for that investigation first instead of showing understanding immediately? In 2003 Mr Van Ojik also knows that there was a great deal of understanding for George Bush, who said: we must attack Iraq. That was an immense mistake, it turned out later. Please bear in mind that you can be wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u42	Unfortunately, the poison gas attack we are talking about is part of a pattern of extreme violence, of systematic human rights violations, of abuse of power and of everything we share our horror about. In the end, the question of who was responsible for this poison gas attack may never be answered with 100% certainty. I am sure of one thing: there is only one person responsible for the current situation in Syria. That's President Assad. That is the President who can be charged a hundred percent for the escalation that has brought us into the situation we are in. This means that we will be able to continue to talk for a very long time about who is responsible for this particular case, even though, in my opinion, many signs are pointing towards the regime, but that is without prejudice to the fact that the main responsibility for the situation in Syria lies with President Assad and that I continue to understand the fact that a red line was drawn at the point of this poison gas attack.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u43	That was a long answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u44	I thought I saw someone else standing by the interrupting microphone. He's gone again, so he's probably satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u45	I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan, who speaks on behalf of the Animal Party. For Mr Van Raan, this is the first time he has contributed to a plenary debate. So it's his maiden speech. Therefore, there should be no interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr. Chairman. We can congratulate each other on getting through Easter weekend without nuclear explosions and poison gas attacks. But we live by the day, with a degree of instability that we could hardly have suspected at Christmas. And with Pentecost, the world can look completely different. A future in the hands of political leaders such as Trump, Jong-un, Putin, Erdogan and Assad gives many people little confidence. The cabinet response to Mr Voordewind's questions, thank you for both of them, contains a contradiction in our view. The letter both identifies the suspected perpetrator and at the same time recommends an investigation to see if the perpetrator actually did it. That's weird. The cabinet response constitutes a Dutch confession for the American attack on the Syrian Air Force base on the basis of suspicions, which are not recognised in international law. That contradiction is the reason for the first question to the Minister. What does he think is the international legal legitimacy of this attack by the United States? There are reasonable doubts about the Minister's suspicions and the reference to the repetition of Assad, e.g. expressed by politician Néhmé of the VVD in the Buitenhof programme, which talks about a tunnel vision. I'd like a response to that. This doubt, which the Minister also expressed in his letter, does not really support any form of military intervention. In fact, it may not even be appropriate to consider this at the moment. After all, we don't know enough. Therefore, in my second part of my contribution I would like to refer to the role played by the Netherlands in the distribution of raw materials for the production of poison gas. What can we do now? Despite the horror and the treaties to ban its use, large-scale trade in these raw materials for poison gases flourished. I'll give you a brief overview. In the 1930s, the Dutch government even allowed mustard gas to be produced on a large scale. In 1984 Secretary of State Bolkestein refused to bring the trade in chemicals under strict control, because export restrictions might harm our trade. And in 2012 Secretary of State Henk Bleker reiterated that argument when the export of Dutch glycol... a raw material for mustard gas................................................................................................................................................................... The Dutch export position above all else, it seems. If the Netherlands really wants to do something about improving the safety of the world by reducing poison gas, it is time to look at our own role in this again. The Animal Party believes that we can no longer wash our hands in innocence or hide behind the positions taken by the United States on this subject. My group believes that our policy on exports could be strengthened. Why not ban the export of raw materials to countries in conflict zones or countries that violate human rights or export those substances to such final destinations? The main starting point of the Dutch export control policy is that in the balance between security risks on the one hand and economic interests on the other hand, the emphasis is on security. Although competitiveness is considered in the application of export control, competitiveness will never be part of the decisive argument. Can the Minister confirm that this is still the basis of policy? Is the Minister therefore prepared to impose such a ban or at least investigate it? I would like to conclude my speech by appealing to all peaceful parties in parliament. I call on these parties to join forces to allow the Netherlands as home of the International Court of Justice to gain an even more important position in building peace and fighting war and violence, not as a lapdog of the US but as a watchdog of world peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u47	Thank you for your maiden speech, too. I see your colleagues from the Animal Party in the room. I'm going to suspend the meeting for a moment so you can be congratulated by those present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u48	I'm reopening the meeting. Let's move on to the debate. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. And may I once again compliment my predecessor from this place and thank him for his maiden speech? I can still see us sitting at the Bar in Amsterdam: gosh, both on the list! And now here we are: it may be. Happy birthday to you again. Now to less cheerful scenes. The poison gas attack on innocent civilians was a new tragic low point in the bloody civil war that is going on in Syria. I think we all agree that citizens, especially women and children, are the greatest victims: children whose lives will be put at a permanent disadvantage as a result of the civil war and women who are not only at risk of becoming victims of the most terrible forms of violence, but who also lose their husbands, parents and children in this bloody war that no winners will know. That is precisely why I have so great respect for all those often anonymous heroes and heroines who continue to work for independent citizen journalism, human rights and humanitarian aid, such as the White Helmets mentioned in the letter. First of all, I would like to stress that war crimes cannot go unpunished, whoever they commit. With the evidence bank for Syria, the possibility of criminal prosecution of suspects and justice for victims is one step closer. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what possibilities he sees to ensure that the truth and the investigation of war crimes can continue. To bring that goal closer, the Netherlands has taken on an important role in establishing the evidence bank. More than 15 countries have now committed to financial support. Is there now sufficient support for the evidence bank for Syria? Then the poison gas attack itself. Although it is clear that chemical weapons have been deployed and all evidence seems to be pointing towards the Syrian regime, my predecessors have also said a great deal about this. However, it has not yet been proved legally by whom the chemical weapons have been used, even though several allies call the Syrian regime a very plausible perpetrator. That evidence is necessary if we want justice to prevail. I would therefore like to know from the Minister what the current state of play is in the fact-finding mission of the OSCE and how likely it is that the Joint Investigative Mechanism will actually start working on the results. Then I come to the missile attack on Syria's Shayrat Air Force Base by the United States. In view of the terrible crimes and paralysis in the UN Security Council by the Russian veto, this attack is understandable and I hope that it will act as a deterrent to the further use of such weapons. However, there is no military solution to the conflict in Syria! As a result, the tensions in Syria are increasing at the moment, and in the end it will not benefit anyone, especially the civilian population of Syria. Only a political agreement offers prospects for the end of the civil war and stabilisation. The Minister is right to say that de-escalation and inclusive transition are crucial at the moment. What role does the Minister see for the EU in this? Too often we see only men at the table in such trials. In the light of Resolution 1325, could the Minister perhaps say something about the role of women in this process? Finally. We must do everything we can to prevent new humanitarian tragedies. Access to humanitarian aid is a crucial element here. Can the Netherlands do more than financial support for humanitarian aid organisations and can the EU make another contribution to this? A sustainable process and justice for the Syrian people is in danger of becoming a long-term issue, but in the interest of the civilian population, I started my speech with it, and we must continue to do everything we can to bring the civil war in Syria to an end peacefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u50	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van Raan on his contribution. It's a small fraction, so I think he's celebrating his maiden speech or he's still working hard on the next file. Ah, there I see him waving again. Well done! The poison gas attack in the Syrian province of Idlib came as a brutal blow. 90 people, including 25 children, died in a terrible way, and hundreds of victims have been marked for life. The blow hadn't been dealt with yet or the wells-nietesgame had already begun. While everything pointed out that the Syrian regime under the leadership of dictator Assad was responsible for the poison gas attacks, this was certainly denied by the regime itself, of course with the support of ally Russia. President Trump saw his chance to show his muscles and came up with a retribution. His red line was crossed. The first victim of a war is the truth. I remembered this sentence from when I read an analysis of the war in Iraq years ago. When I look at the Syrian situation, that phrase has become obsolete. The first victims of a war are innocent civilians. Is it not the case that the parties in Syria are playing a political game over the back of these innocent citizens? This has to stop. Following the 2013 poison gas attack in Damascus, measures would be taken to release Syria from chemical weapons. It was therefore stated by the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the OPCW, that in June 2014 the last batch of chemical weapons had been shipped from Syria. The opposite turned out to be true. We saw children again with foam on their mouths and narrowed pupils. These horrible images will never disappear from our retina again. I would therefore also like to ask the Minister how it is possible that chemical weapons were still in Syria after June 2014. Can the Minister rule out the fact that there are still chemical weapons in Syria at the moment? The war in Syria has now cost more than 400,000 people their lives. 400,000 people, which is similar to the population of Utrecht and its immediate surroundings. One million people have been injured. This is similar to Amsterdam and its surroundings. About 8 million civilians are on the run. That is the population of a country like Austria. The coverage of deadly incidents that take place in Syria seems to be getting used to, but is it ever gonna get used to it? My heart bleeds when I see the faces of anxious children who are looking for a safe passage between the broken buildings. My heart also bleeds when I see hopeless fathers who cannot protect their families, and especially when I see the crying mothers with the lifeless body of their child in their arms. The international community has failed. We abandoned the Syrian people. In particular, the United Nations have a great responsibility in the drama in Syria. An organization whose primary task is to maintain international security and peace fails in all respects and does not come up with a lasting solution. Shouldn't decision-making in the Security Council be kicked ass? A body in which five countries can stop any resolution on international peace and security by means of a right of veto is in fact contrary to themselves. Would it not be better if decisions were taken by qualified majority? I'll ask the Minister how he feels about that. We saw it again last week: Russia stopped a resolution for the eighth time in a row, which related to the government of Syria. A resolution condemning the poison gas attack and calling on Assad to cooperate in an investigation into the poison gas attack was enough for Russia to use its right of veto again. I'm rounding up. If even independent investigations into inhumanity are stopped in the Security Council, that is enough reason to reform. We at DENK therefore believe that the Netherlands should take the lead in getting this done in the Security Council. The fact that we will have a seat in the Security Council next year is an excellent opportunity to speed up such a process in the Security Council. In the short term, we call on the Dutch Government to use all possible democratic means to assist the Syrians and to contribute in all possible ways to stability in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u51	Madam President. First of all, I would like to join in the congratulations to Mr Van Raan, who made his maiden speech today. I heard three tastes from the spokesmen today about how we look at the action of the Americans at the Syrian Air Force base on 7 April: condemnation, understanding and support. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is happy to join those who have expressed their support, at least the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. As far as we are concerned, it was a proper and necessary warning against the use of chemical weapons. The images of victims, children and the elderly killed by poison gas are horrifying. Such war crimes must not go unpunished over and over again. After Obama's red line in the past it remained awfully quiet. We are very afraid that these substantive international standards will be undermined in the absence of enforcement. We believe that the action that has taken place now is proportionate and rapid. With regard to the indications that the Assad regime is behind this, we find the government's argument convincing in the letter that the Syrian regime has previously committed poisonous gas attacks, that there is not convincingly clean ship with the chemical weapons stock and that there is evidence from various quarters that the Syrian regime is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u52	I hear the SGP Group is expressing support. I'm just looking for a comparison. During a football game someone has made a tackle before. Next time the referee sees another collision between two people and on the basis of the previous tackle he punishes the player. Does the SGP find that right? Should the SGP not have more evidence before there is support for a counter-attack?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u53	The fact that someone has behaved badly before is, of course, never the basis for a criminal conviction. If a person who has behaved badly before has not shown a clear improvement and something is happening again that is not in the hook and which is exactly in line with how someone has behaved before, then it is not strange to think and it can even be seen as an indication that the perpetrator concerned has been going again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u54	In Dutch law, which Mr Van der Staaij knows very well, an indication is not enough to condemn anyone. There has to be evidence on the table. Does Mr Van der Staaij think that the letter and information we have now received from the cabinet, which we must now assume, has provided sufficient evidence to the parliament to express his support for the attack by the Americans?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u55	I do think it is important that a follow-up study be carried out, including by the OPCW. It would be good if we could have more clarity on this. However, I would also like to emphasize speed. It is essential for the enforcement of international standards that there is not too much time between the reaction and the fact itself, because that is not without risks. If the investigation takes a long time with intermediate conclusions, it is also challenged. How long will we be working before we can be sure, if we can, what has happened? After so much time, can you be satisfied with such a limited response as has taken place now? I also consider the nature of this reaction, which has nevertheless been rather limited to the air base in question. There is indeed a weighting. I'm not saying that, with the wisdom of my study, I'm sure it is. I'm just saying, I'm dealing with a judgment on what's going on. A decision had also to be made for this rapid, proportionate action. As far as I can judge now, the material that was there was sufficiently solid to legitimize this reaction. In fact, I have already put forward the most important part of my text. I am also curious about how the government and the European Union deal with, say, the intermediate position of understanding, between support and condemnation on the one hand. I understand that position. I therefore have a concept of understanding. But can't that also lead to some kind of new intermediate category where you should actually ask yourself: what is it now? Shouldn't you be telling me as clearly as possible whether or not it's possible? I say this in the interests of clarity, which is desirable under international law. However, I would also point out immediately that all manuals on international law state that if there is one jurisdiction that is in constant dialogue with itself to establish its own nature, it is the jurisdiction of international law. That is precisely because international law is so often intertwined with politics, and that is, of course, what we are seeing here. You can say that this reaction does not formally fit into international law because it was not based on a Security Council decision. But has the veto been issued there on the basis of a high-quality legal assessment by Russia of what was going on here? Or was there a very strong political fact here too? Therefore, given the reasons why that veto was issued, the obstruction of the investigation and the other facts mentioned, the SGP expresses its support for this action. I very much agree with the government that it is important to continue with the political path. And, of course, in that wasp nest, in that internationalized civil war that is going on in Syria, de-escalation is also essential. The SGP Group wholeheartedly supports this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr. Chairman. What we have seen in Syria over the past few years is deep-paced. There are hundreds of thousands of deaths, mass displacements and a war of all against all in which all kinds of groups are fighting against each other. I refer to IS, Al-Qaeda, government troops, Turkish fighters, Kurds, Al-Nusra and other groups. An unholy alliance of naive messianism, filthy interests around oil pipelines and a distribution and control strategy has led the Western countries to suspend, as early as March 2011, diplomatic relations with Assad Syria, and the imposition of severe sanctions. This was clearly an attempt to bring the regime to its knees. But controlling regime change is absurd if you don't know why you want to replace the regime. Doesn't the Minister agree? The terrifying chaos that has arisen in Libya should have taught us something about the consequences of recklessly bombarding political opponents. If you do that, you will have a war of all against all, a "bellum omnium contra omnes," as described in Leviathan, the classic of Thomas Hobbes. This war of all against all also results in mass migrations, flows of migrants and terrorist attacks in Europe. Better were the circumstances in the countries that were allowed to experience violent regime change rarely or never. The intervention was always accompanied by tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of civilian casualties. Without exception, it made the situation more unstable, more inflammatory and more dangerous. Moreover, it is the Islamists who, partly with the support of the West, are now able to spread their ideology of hatred and abomination in Syria as well as in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. What are we doing now? It is precisely in those countries that it is the Christian minorities, our natural allies and the people we should support who are united in saying stop this totally destructive policy of regime change. They are the greatest victims and they cannot or hardly can flee, because they are not or only very sporadically helped by smugglers. Isn't the Minister seeing this? How does he feel about that? The priority should be to create or maintain as much stability as possible in the region and to defeat ISIS. Unfortunately, there is currently no alternative to Assad. Shooting Tomahawks in the wild in response to unproven acts of the regime is symbolic politics, which solves nothing, no matter how difficult it may be, no matter how much our indignation may be about images of suffering and dying. In a war, the very first victim is the truth. We don't know a lot, but we do know one thing: stability is better than chaos. We ask the Minister to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u57	Mr Baudet says that he is not happy that there would be an active strategy of regime change, but he has only been there since his great hero, Donald Trump. The man who, not so long ago, called Mr Baudet a great liberal, someone who at least finds his agreement, has now announced that this regime must be removed. This has not been said before by Western countries. That is what the Americans have said. The Americans have also intervened for the first time with their military attack. Syria was an example of non-intervention. Assad hasn't been interrogated. Mr Baudet will have to make a choice between Thomas Hobbes or the Tomahawks to stay in his passionate style. I dare him to do so here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u58	First of all, congratulations on the poetic intransigence of the Member of Parliament, Mr Ten Broeke. I do not agree that the American strategy for Trump was not even aimed at removing the regime of Assad, or at least weakening it to such an extent that it would result in that. We can look, among other things, at how the rebels were armed, partly with active American support, partly by allowing other countries to do so, for example Qatar. We can also draw attention to the extremely intensive sanction packages that have been imposed since 2011 and to the suspension of diplomatic relations at all. It is, of course, a fact, as Mr Ten Broeke rightly said, that for the first time there has been a real reaction to manu militari, but the political project of weakening the Government of Assad so that a conflict would eventually lead to another regime is much older.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u59	It is an interesting answer, but not an answer to the question I asked. That's why I'm gonna ask the question a little bit more digital.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u60	And shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yeah, and a little shorter, too. The word 'toxic gas attacks', the subject of this debate, was not mentioned in Mr Baudet's contribution. So I would like to know whether he condemns it and whether he supports or rejects the response of the US Government, the first time that the Assad regime has been directly attacked by the coalition that criticises Baudet here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u62	I condemn the poison gas attacks, every poison gas attack, every attack, every human death in every respect. It's horrible what's happening there. The stomach of every human being who sees the images will turn. But I am a criminal lawyer enough to be very careful to jump directly to conclusions about who did what. I am also reading with great interest articles by investigative journalists, for example Seymour Hersh or Robert Parry, who are currently, as we speak, appearing and going about the aforementioned attack in 2013. We don't know who's behind this. We do not know far too much to point the finger and say that it has done and that has happened. So yes, I condemn this attack, of course. It's horrible that people are dying. But do I know who did it? Do I have the pride to say: that's what it comes through and that's what we have to do about it? No, I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u63	Mr Ten Broeke, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u64	Mr President, that is not the question. I would ask you to help me to help the MP Baudet to answer my question. That poison gas will be condemned at your service, I hope so. Glad you're doing it here, Mr Baudet. But it's about the American gig now. We also need to establish a position on this. I ask you what you think of your hero, Donald Trump, who you once called the leader of the West and who has now intervened, something you have spoken out against in the past. Are you for or against the military retaliation of the Americans?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u65	I'm against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u66	Thank you. That's a clear answer, I think. I think you were done? Oh, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u67	I would like to continue with this because Mr Baudet's position with regard to Assad is not clear at all. He seems to condemn certain acts, but at the same time contradicts those convictions on Twitter, for example. That's what he says, and I'll quote him, because I don't want to wrong him: "He who governments wicked countries sometimes has to rely on wicked measures." In other words, those who rule evil countries must sometimes rely on malicious measures. That was in relation to Assad. I would like to ask Mr Baudet: what kind of malicious measures has he understood by Mr Assad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u68	There is a great distinction between idealism and realism in international politics. There are very many countries that have to do with incredibly difficult conditions on the ground, where groups are violent, where groups use violence. Civil war such as that which exists in Syria, but also, for example, in a conflict in which Western countries are directly militaryly involved, will, however bad it may be, also suffer civilian casualties. It's called collateral damage. That is a very great tragedy, but unfortunately it is not, or not always, to be prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u69	We have to be a little more specific. Because "collateral damage," and the term says it all, is, euphemistically speaking, unintentional collateral damage. That's not evil. That is an inherent outcome of the deployment of some weapons which, if it goes wrong for once, if something happens that was not foreseen, leads to consequences that were not foreseen and not wanted either. What I am asking for is your quote, Mr Baudet, in which you say that you support malicious measures, that you understand. So I am not asking you for a civil war, because everyone on this side of the table is saying: what Assad is doing in Syria cannot. I ask you how you understand Assad and why you understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u70	I think we are now entering a fairly semantic debate on the translation of the concept of 'wicked'. Those are scholastic discussions. Let me just clear my position. I find it incredible that there are victims on both sides, on all sides of the conflict. But I don't think we're getting any further with purely moral indignation. We must take this as the core of my statement and I hope that the Minister will also respond to it, bearing in mind that stability in the last instance is what we want in a country. If we do not see who can be the alternative to a certain ruler, or what could be the alternative to a certain ruler, then it is reckless to want that ruler away, because you do not know what you will get in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u71	Finally. Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma, because we are actually doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u72	Absolutely, I get that, Mr. Chairman. But if Mr Baudet implicitly says "reckless," I would like to ask him the following. If he is so committed to stability, how does he appreciate the stability that now prevails under Assad in Syria? The hundreds of thousands of deaths, the millions of refugees, is that the stability that Mr Baudet says is 'I stand for'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u73	Well, no, not anymore, of course. But we should not underestimate the role played by the West in this. The West has played a major, significant role in actively weakening the Syrian regime with the aim of regime change. I believe that this is an unwise course and that it is very important that this House should consider it thoroughly. I am also very curious about the Minister's view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u74	Mr Baudet actually says: Mr Assad is a dangerous leader, but he is a dangerous leader we know, and that is why we should tolerate him. That's fine; that's his opinion. I believe that others have not yet performed that sound here, so it is innovative. But does Mr Baudet see the future for Mr Assad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u75	That's a very interesting question. In any case, I agree with Mr Voordewind's first paraphrase: Assad is a dangerous, violent and in many ways rejectable man, but it is someone we know. It is someone who held that very complex country together to some extent and has brought stability, as well as a number of freedoms for all kinds of minorities, including Christian minorities. Is there a future for him? Would we wish for a future for him? That is actually the question we would like to put to the Minister. At the moment, the regime is so weakened that I think it is going to be extremely difficult. But at least I don't see any bread in it to continue to weaken his regime. So, yeah, maybe it's better to support him. Perhaps it is better to ensure that this regime can at least remain in place. That's better than the alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u76	That's a remarkable statement. In a democratic rule of law and parliamentary democracy such as ours, it is remarkable to say that a dictator should stay mainly because of the possible stability, while in no country are there as many people fleeing as in Syria. Anyway, you are dealing with your own views, Mr Baudet. The only question is to what extent your opinion relates to the promise you made to respect the Constitution. Our Constitution states that the Netherlands will promote justice and justice in international politics. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u77	Perhaps I should stress once again that I do not find the Assad regime very beautiful or attractive. That is not the argument here. It's about asking for the least evil. I think that this is very often the question in international politics and that it is not recognised as such at the time when we live, in which we look rather idealistic. If we look at the situation ten years ago and the situation now, what has been the development in Syria? The West has been actively pursuing regime change there since 2011, and I disagree with Mr Ten Broeke on that, but that is how I see it. Has the situation there improved or deteriorated? Mr Voordewind may refer to the flows of refugees and the many deaths, but of course they are the result of a war which has been co-launched by the West. At least the West has not tried to end this war. There's a plan for a regime change. There is a policy of revolutionary changes in the Middle East, Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. The Dutch Constitution and the promotion of international legal order are very important. And international law does not tolerate dictatorships, I agree with that, but perhaps even worse with anarchies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u78	After Mr Baudet's long speech, also in reply to questions from colleagues, I have the following question. He used the word "stabilization" as a kind of positive appreciation for the role played by the Assad regime. I didn't want to bring it up, but now that he has mentioned the word "stabilization," I have to remember the father of this Assad. I have been with him a little longer in my life, but I also experienced his father's regime at the time, which was also very terrifying. If Mr Baudet is actually referring to'stabilization' as a kind of continuum through his son, then I have serious reservations about this, in particular about what he just said, namely that the regime deserves some understanding or some support, let me say that the word 'concept' in this context should not be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u79	Yes, the regime of Bashar Al-Assad's father was of course also rücksichtslos and at a number of times has been very cruel and very violent. I would be sorry if the picture lingered on, that is a bit in the beginning of this conversation, that on the one hand you have good people, people who want good things with humanity, and on the other hand a terrible person who defends all kinds of nasty dictators. The only question I would like to raise is the question of the alternative. I do not think there are many examples of countries where a more or less autocratic dictator or a violent ruler was removed after which the situation there has improved significantly. I couldn't give you many examples. We are all watching Syria with the same moral indignation and the same empathy with the victims. The question is this: should we continue to weaken Assad from the West in such a way that that regime falls? Is that supposed to be our line? Should we, as the Minister writes in his letter, steer a transition or should we try to come to some kind of cease-fire from the present situation and think further from there? In my view, these are about the three options. I do not see any concrete options for the first two options, i.e. a total regime change or some kind of transition, because I see no alternative to the current regime. If you do see it or if others do, I am highly recommended to do so. That is why I say that our primary objective is to hear a response from the Minister. I tried to ask the Minister in an interruption last week. That is our main concern. In fact, there is very little moral support or no moral support for that regime. I want to make that clear once again. It is purely a question of asking for the least evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u80	I hear you now saying that some people here are giving the impression that you would actually support several dictators. I don't think that's been said, because it was very specific just about Assad. Let me get this straight. However, I repeat my question. You just said that you actually want to express support, at least some support, to Assad. Are you sticking to that verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u81	I don't think I said that. At least I didn't mean to say that. When it comes to supporting, that is a different kind of support than supporting a person or supporting a policy. It is about what is the direction that we must take to put an end to this war as quickly as possible and to achieve stability. Should we call that support? That is a very interesting definition of that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u82	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed, otherwise we will be repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u83	I welcome the fact that Mr Baudet has now clarified what he meant and what he did not mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u84	He's been trying to do that for a long time. Mr. Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u85	This is an extremely interesting debate with Mr Baudet. He said just now: I see that there is an idealistic view in the Chamber of Commerce of this kind of conflict. Let me translate that as some sort of creatability or urge to improve things. My answer would then be: yes, we are, we are also trying to do things better here in the Chamber. I would like to ask Mr Baudet to reflect on the role of Russia. I kind of missed that in his contribution. In particular, it is about how Russia contributes or does not contribute to a solution to human suffering, which Mr Baudet rightly says is terrible and that we should stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u86	First of all, I would like to say that I think Mr Knops excels in realism and distinguishes himself positively from other Members of Parliament in his view on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u87	There you go, Mr. Knops. You can get through the day with this. Please continue, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u88	Russia has clearly chosen to support the Assad regime. As far as I can see from the analysis that stability is better than continuing chaos, that the alternative to Assad ISIS is and that that would be very unattractive, I think I can say something for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u89	If you looked at that in isolation, that statement would certainly be sustainable. The point, however, is that Russia, in many areas, is always holding a position in almost the only instrument we have left, the UN Security Council, which is at least a blockade. Mr Ten Broeke also said it. You could say: let us prefer diplomacy and let us negotiate again. But Russia is always involved in the escalation of all kinds of conflicts. If you see that in that broader perspective, is Mr Baudet still of the opinion that, looking at Syria through a straw, what Russia is doing is doing well and that that contributes to that....................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u90	I didn't quite understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u91	I'm sure that's up to me. I think Mr Baudet will withdraw all the praises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u92	We are of the nuanced judgment, Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u93	If you look at the conflict in Syria, you could say that Russia is taking this position there, because there are its own interests or because there are certain things that Russia looks at differently. But if we also look at other conflicts in the world, we can see that it is every time Russia, with its permanent seat in the Security Council, blocks solutions for diplomacy or genuine improvement of human rights. Does Mr Baudet still believe that Russia has a legitimate reason to support Assad, or is it part of a broader palette in which Russia is actually the spoiler of a large number of problems in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u94	Is the question clear now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u95	Yes, the question is clear. I do not think that the behaviour of country A in situation X forces a different conclusion on the behaviour of country A in situation Y. That said, there are indeed situations, including in the UN Security Council, in which Russia plays an extremely destructive role. There are also situations in the world in which the Western Alliance has played a destructive role. I just mentioned Libya. I think that is a very good example of a situation which we have seriously deteriorated rather than improved. Again, the world in 2017 requires a very nuanced look. Unfortunately, it is no longer the case that, as in the time of the Cold War, there are on the one hand the good guys, and on the other hand the bad guys, and on the other hand the whole world can be divided into the forces that work to improve humanity and the forces that work exclusively for the deterioration of humanity. There are very big interests, there are very complex interests, there are very many rumours and there is very little certainty about what is happening in the world, but in my view we are not doing any improvement on the situation in Syria.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u96	I thought "a nice conclusion," but suddenly I see Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u97	It can always be better, Mr. Chairman. Mr Baudet also came with Thomas Hobbes. Then I immediately remembered "authoritas non veritas facit legem." Hobbes says that in the end it is very important to maintain order with power. What is Mr Baudet's position on Trump's intervention in this respect from that hobbesian perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u98	Mr Baudet, I like the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u99	Yeah, it's a nice debate, that's for sure. Thank you very much for Mr Van der Staaij's question, which, in my view, actually supports my point. After all, when it comes to the auctoritas, to the effective authority, we must say that it is for part of Syria the government of Assad, the troops of Assad. They are weakened by this attack, but there is no new authority against it. What is happening is that for a long time now we are weakening the existing authority in all kinds of ways, by very far-reaching sanctions, by arming rebels and all kinds of other things, but the effect for the population is anarchy, war of all against all. After all, there is no credible alternative. So Trump's attack, as far as you can call it an attack, in fact, it's a symbolic attack with a series of cruise rockets that has no effect other than a further weakening of the existing regime and is thus a push further from Syria towards a war of all against all, of anarchy. That's undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Chairman. Speaking to Mr Ten Broeke, I was recently in Ypres, where I had the same collar as him; glad to hear it from him. An attack with chemical weapons on civilians is too terrible for words. The terrible images from Syria and the descriptions of the consequences make that clear once again. I do see that young father with two dead babies in his arms. The international community must express its views on this issue and call those who use such means against citizens to account. The 50PLUS Group therefore regrets that it has not been possible to reach a firm and unambiguous verdict in the United Nations Security Council, despite Mrs Nikki Haley's feminine actions. That's the name we've been remembering, I think, ever since. At its meeting on 5 April, the US representative at the UN suggested that the United States itself should take action in the absence of a ruling. On April 7, this actually happened with the firing of 59 Tomahawk missiles at the Syrian air base Shayrat. Targets of the attack were Syrian fighter planes, bunkers, radar systems, fuel storage facilities, ammunition and anti-aircraft guns. In this debate, the question arises as to whether there was a proportionate response or whether the Americans reacted quirkyly and overly violently. According to the U.S. temporary charger Shawn Crowley, there was an appropriate response. He took note of the warning that the US reserves the right to re-attack militaryly if the Syrian regime again uses chemical weapons against its citizens. My group agrees with the fact that the cabinet understands the American decision on the basis of the government's position that appropriate warnings should be given when using chemical weapons. As far as we are concerned, the American missile attack can be seen as proportional, but at the same time we must ensure that relations are not further hardened, because that is not in the interests of the Syrian citizens, the main victims of this conflict. Against this background, it is a pity that there is no clear picture of the position of the US government with regard to the conflict in Syria; think of Trump's statement that Assad's whether or not to remain was not such an issue for him, while he had a different opinion a week later; as far as America is concerned, that also applies to a large number of other issues. Unfortunately, Russia's position is clear: that country still considers itself an ally of Assad. That only complicates the situation. We can find all kinds of things here, but these two countries in particular have a great responsibility for seeking a diplomatic solution to the Syrian conflict. We are pleased that the cabinet is committed to making a contribution from the European Union to this too. We support the premise that in a new Syria there is no place for Assad. We cannot and must not turn our backs on the situation in Syria. Every day, civilians become victims of acts of war there. No effort is too great to counter that. Diplomacy will be the strongest weapon. Finally, Syria's allies urged a diplomatic solution in 2013 instead of Obama's counter-measures. What did Obama's non-intervention ultimately bring? Those same allies continue to support Assad and Russia is blocking a condemnation by the UN. Russia makes the international legal order powerless and thus has the greatest responsibility. What does the cabinet think of putting more pressure on Russia, particularly through the EU? Without Russia's support, Assad would have been in a much weaker position. Russia should force Assad to refrain from new crimes against its own people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u101	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Syria is geographically and strategically important for Russia's dominant position in that region. I also refer to the occupation of Crimea and the support for the rebels in eastern Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u103	That brings us to the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. Does the Minister need a short suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u104	One minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u105	Then we'll make that five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u106	Madam President. I congratulate Mr Van Raan on his maiden speech and his interesting contribution to the debate. I will answer his questions a little later in my speech. I thank the Chamber for the first-term questions and analyses. I shall begin with a chronological review of recent developments. First of all, I will deal with the air attack on 4 April. What exactly did we know, what exactly happened, where do we have any doubts? Then I will deal with the American missile attack on 7 April, on which a number of questions have been asked. I will then explain the position of the Dutch cabinet once more. Of course, I will address the question of how we are going to proceed with Syria; I think it is essential. An interesting debate has already been held on this subject this afternoon. Firstly, the facts as far as we know them. On April 4, in the morning, Khan Sheikhoun was bombed, a city in the hands of the Syrian opposition in the south of the province of Idlib in Syria. Khan Sheikhoun has been under fire for a long time. Over the past few weeks, opposition groups and the Assad regime have fought hard in the area. In this sense, we are talking about a strategic place. Not long after the attack that was carried out on April 4 in the early morning, video footage appeared from the affected city. We've all seen these horrible images. Men with strongly narrowed pupils, muscle weakness, dozens of women and children, including very young children, gasping for breath with the foam on the mouth. A cesspool of atrocities against humanity. You have rightly said all this today. Based on observed symptoms of the victims and also in view of the absence of physical injury, it is likely to be the chemical weapon sarin. The United States and the United Kingdom have indicated this, as have the World Health Organization and Doctors Without Borders. This type of weapon is strictly prohibited under international law, partly because of the unbearable physical pain it causes the victim. The United Nations reports at least 70 dead and over 300 injured. The few operational hospitals in Idlib were overcrowded with patients in no time and there was an urgent shortage of specialist medicines. To the extent of disaster, one of those overcrowded hospitals where victims were cared for was bombed in the afternoon and therefore rendered unusable. Those are the horrors of this barbaric scene in Syria. The deliberate bombing of a hospital is a war crime, which I would like to say again here this afternoon, which I strongly condemn. Next week the 20th anniversary of the entry into force of the Chemical Weapons Convention will be commemorated and thus of the OPCW. I do not wish to use the word 'celebration' in this connection. The purpose of the Convention is precisely to prevent this kind of scenes. It is, of course, even more bitter that we are now faced with this kind of imagery from Syria. It is crucial that the taboo on the use of chemical weapons is restored. A number of speakers have rightly said this. If we do not, we will actually go back a hundred years in time to the horrors of the First World War. I think that Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Ten Broeke and others have rightly pointed this out. So you also have to be able to react quite quickly; that standard cannot be followed endlessly. I'll get back to you on that. What is certain, what are the facts? There is no doubt that chemical weapons have been used in Syria before. The OPCW-UN Joint Investigative Mechanism, set up by the UN Security Council, established that the Assad Army deployed these weapons three times, in 2014 and 2015. This involved chlorine gas thrown out of helicopters in barrel bombs. This has little to do with stability, but more with a huge stream of refugees who have caused it. Assad is therefore also a criminal recidivist when it comes to the use of chemical weapons. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. Following the major chemical attack on Ghouta on 21 August 2013, Syria became a party to the Chemical Weapons Convention in October 2013. In doing so, Syria has undertaken to declare and dismantle its entire chemical weapons programme at the OPCW. The chemical weapons declared by Syria, including sarin, were subsequently destroyed under the supervision of the OPCW. I would also point out that, before that, Syria has always denied having chemical weapons; that was, once again, recidivism in lies. The question is whether Syria has declared its entire program and all its chemical weapons. I believe that Mr Van Ojik was asking for this. The OPCW has been verifying that declaration for three years, but has indicated in mid-2016 that it has not been able to establish that the Assad regime has indeed declared everything fully and accurately. The many uncertainties and inconsistencies in the declaration suggest that Syria has not given full openness and withheld chemical weapons. In the days following 4 April, several allies indicated that they had intelligence indicating that the chemical attack was carried out on 4 April by a pilot of the Syrian regime and that the aircraft in question took off from Shayrat Air Base. The American Secretary of State Tillerson used the words "very high level confidence." Over the last few days, a number of White House and other country officials have repeated this type of declaration. I would like to say here this afternoon that our own services also consider it highly probable that the Syrian Air Force carried out an air attack on Khan Sheikhoun on 4 April at around 6.30 p.m. and that the victims were exposed to the nerve gas. Bearing in mind the recidivistic nature of Assad with regard to the use of chemical weapons, this is plausible, but our intelligence services now consider this very likely. Neither the Assad regime nor Russia deny that the Syrian army bombed Khan Sheikhoun on 4 April. However, they dispute the use of the chemical weapon and the target and, in the days after the chemical attack, have given rise to several stories. We know that. In the meantime, we have seen this in a number of other international incidents. On 5 April, the Russian Ministry of Defence stated that the Syrian Air Force would have carried out bombings on the ammunition depot and military equipment in Khan Sheikhoun and that they would have released chemicals in the hands of Al-Qaeda. Russia indicates that this attack would have taken place around noon. However, the first images of victims appeared on social media around seven o'clock in the morning. I do not attach any importance to this Russian lecture. I mentioned the history of Assad on the use of chemical weapons and the information provided by our own intelligence services. There is no indication that the opposition has technically difficult to produce sarin in its possession, let alone in these quantities. Then, last week, a second story arose, in which Russia states that it would be a big conspiracy and that all videos with victims of the chemical attack would have been staged. This story is so unrealistic that I do not want to go into it further. The Russian declaration is more in line with the trend that Assad is being held over by Russia. It fits in with the trend that Russia routinely disseminates disinformation in order to achieve political goals. The international community was quite right to react shocked by this terrible chemical attack, but when the UN Security Council met on 5 April, it was again not possible to reach agreement on a response to the attack on 4 April. Also in recent weeks attempts to do so have been subject to a Russian veto. The OPCW Fact-Finding Mission has collected samples and information that will be analysed in the laboratories certified by OPCW. It will take a few weeks for the results of that study to be known. The MPs have probably also heard that a session of the OPCW is taking place today. The OPCW Executive Council met in a special session on 13 April but has not yet taken any decisions. This council also proved to be divided. Iran and Russia are trying to question the impartiality and independence of the FFM, which is to call into question the mechanism, by proposing a new international investigation with external experts. The Netherlands will oppose this. We have a good mechanism and it has to be implemented. The meeting of the Council will continue on 19 April, i.e. this afternoon. If the existing Fact-Finding Mission of the OPCW has to do its work to determine whether CW has been deployed, and if so, sarin has already been found in the samples taken from victims who could be investigated by the co-operation of the countries in the region, then the Joint Investigative Mechanism will take its turn for the attribution of debt. I will return to that question of guilt in a moment and I will of course return to the missile attack. The Russian proposal to set up a new team will be discussed this afternoon after 3 p.m. The meeting is now adjourned. The Russian Federation is going to try to secure consensus on a modified proposal. This is now being negotiated between the Russian Federation and the United States. I don't think the odds of success are great at the moment, but let's hope we're surprised at the end of the day. In any case, we support the OPCW's research work. We fully support the strengthening of this organization. The creation of a new research team is rejected, as this would imply criticism of the independence and quality of the international organisation we support: the OPCW. By the way, the Joint Investigative Mechanism is already wider than the OPCW alone, because it is a co-production with the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u107	This is all about the evidence. That's not unimportant. We've learned that before. The VVD has also learned its lesson, for example when it comes to Iraq. But then it is not unimportant that the Minister here says that our security services also now qualify as'very likely'. Then I would like to know here for the Minister's record whether this is indeed the toughest qualification that our security services can give to this type of information and whether it is also secondary information, i.e. information that has been checked with other services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u108	I do not go into the exact nature of the information provided by our intelligence services. I'll give you the qualification I just used. I'm not going to further qualify them either, but that's the qualification "very likely." It is not unimportant that we know this from our own sources.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u109	I am going to do that because three years ago, as a Chamber, we also asked for a meeting with the security services. It was remarkable at the time that that was possible. I am still very grateful to the government for that. It is not insignificant, even with the debates on the Davids Committee in mind, that we, as a Chamber, can at least see that our security services are also talking here about'very likely'. That's in the review framework that the Davids Committee is calling for. That is a political fact that we must take into account when we also consider whether the Americans' commitment is legitimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u110	I'll be right back on that I.D. question. The same applies to the international legal aspects. I think that Mr Ten Broeke is quite right. I am therefore saying that our services consider it highly probable that the Syrian Air Force carried out an air attack on Khan Sheikhoun on April 4 at around 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr Van der Staaij's choice menu allows you to condemn the attack, you can understand it or you can give political support... is a relevant topic for this debate. The answers given by the Minister about the extent to which our own intelligence services are judging are new in relation to the letter. If the Minister is heading in this direction, both on the information of the Americans and on that of our own intelligence services, will the position of the Cabinet change from understanding to support? If the answer is "no," when could that happen? I think this is a relevant question. Mr Ten Broeke also asked the question, but he has already drawn the conclusion. However, the majority of the parties to this Chamber have not yet reached that conclusion. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u112	It doesn't change. I will explain this when I come to the international legal aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u113	I have two questions. First of all, I have a question about our own security services. Are these their own investigations or are their own security services actually just going through the CIA's messages and putting their own stamp on them? The second question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u114	Have you forgotten the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u115	Question 2 is better than question 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u116	Let's start with question one...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u117	Oh yeah, here it comes! I hear the Minister say that it is very likely, on the basis of reports from the security services, that the Assad regime is behind this attack. Doesn't the Minister find it suspicious and curious that just when the rebels were about to throw the towel in the ring, at the very moment that Assad was in fact able to win a decisive victory, he would organize a poison gas attack? Isn't that extremely odd? Isn't it the most unlikely thing to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u118	I would like to reply to Mr Baudet's first question on the basis of available information. In reply to the second question, I do not recognise the situation on the spot described by Mr Baudet. It is probably more logical that the opposite has been the case. There would have been a possible breakthrough of Syrian troops in the north. The use of at least weapons of attack and bombing would have been in the military interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u119	The Minister thus states that it may have been a final emergency grip of a regime that was dying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u120	No, on the contrary. I don't want to say at all that the regime is dying. I think everyone can see that this is not the case. There is great support for the regime from Russia and Iran and from Hezbollah. There is also a fight against opposition groups. There is a fight against ISIS, which we also support, as you know. There is a very complicated conglomerate of factors. I can't judge exactly what reason something would have happened. On the basis of available information, it is highly likely that this has happened. I also think, apart from the qualification of the American attack and the international legal aspects, that it is important that we know the seam of the stocking. I just called that in. This afternoon, we are negotiating in the OPCW to make sure that people go there to see exactly how it went.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u121	The Minister, in his factual account so far, recalled that it is likely that the Syrian regime would never have opened up the full supply of chemical weapons on Syria's territory in violation of the 2014 agreement, let alone destroyed that stock. There is talk of the type of poison gas used and the question of guilt. Does the Minister see that at the moment there is also a perspective in the third dimension, namely the taking back on the agreement, for which there was great support at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u122	Yes. That is de facto what is going on in the negotiations at the OPCW this afternoon. I think Mr Van Ojik is right to refer to the Kerry-Lavrov deal. That deal formed the basis for the removal of Syrian chemical weapons and Syria's accession to the Chemical Weapons Convention. Since then, Syria has also fulfilled all its obligations as a party to the Convention. UN Security Council Resolution 2118 also includes very specific obligations for Syria. Although this has not been revitalised, it is clear that cooperation between Russia and the United States is now about the only way to achieve this. That is why I consider this afternoon's discussion to be important. Apart from the appreciation, the fact that the Americans have given that warning immediately changes the dynamics. We believe it is important, as Mr Van Ojik rightly says, that the agreement should be revived and that genuinely independent research should be carried out. So the Dutch Government agrees with that. We have formed a judgment based on all kinds of intelligence. We have said how we look at it. But I'd also like to know the seam of the stocking. That is what international institutions are for, and that is how it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u123	The Minister has just indicated, after the detailed letter, that it is also very likely, on the basis of the information provided by our own security services, that Assad is behind this attack. When's that information dating? It may sound a little faint, but why wasn't this in the letter that we received very recently?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u124	I understand Mr Van Rooijen's question. That information was dated April 18th.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u125	Let us return to the information provided by our own services. It was one of the lessons of the Davids Commission that we should not depend on foreign intelligence services. However, I would like to verify whether our own services have their own observations and their own evidence or whether they are dependent on information from third parties to determine whether Assad is actually responsible, not so much for the bombing as for the use of poison gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u126	Once again, I should like to confine myself to what I said earlier: on the basis of available information. I can't provide any further information on that. I come to the point that you are concerned with, namely the question of what that means for qualification and for political support. I come to that now, because it actually has another reason. I'm going to share it with you now. Let's talk about the American attack. Why did it happen? After the UN Security Council failed to reach an agreement on 5 April, the Tomahawk missiles were fired at the Syrian Air Force base on Friday 7 April. Immediately after the attack, the U.S. temporary defendant explained the attack further. According to the U.S., this was a proportional attack, which I think was also a specific one aimed at the origin of the chemical attack, which was intended to deter further chemical attacks by Assad. I think that is essential, because not using chemical attacks is an international standard that must be respected. I believe that Mr De Roon has talked about this. The Americans also argue that no further military intervention is foreseen unless Assad is retelling against the United States or its allies or re-attacking chemical weapons against the Syrian population. The US refers to violations of international law, the UN Security Council Resolution and the protection of the civilian population in order to legitimise the decision to launch the attack. There are three possible principles of international law. The Chamber knows it, because the debate has just been held again. These principles are: self-defense, a mandate for the use of force by the UN Security Council on the basis of Chapter 7 or the consent of the State where violence is used. These grounds do not apply in the case of the American missile attack. In the light of the Davids Committee, this makes it difficult to express explicit political support. That is why the Dutch Government used the word 'concept'. There was also a real dilemma behind this, I say in the direction of the SP Group. As that group proposes, it is very easy. There is a serious dilemma and I hope that this group will recognise it. On the one hand, it is very important to uphold international law, including the ban on violence at the heart of the collective security system. On the other hand, there is the responsibility of the UN Security Council for the maintenance of international peace and security, and thus for the prohibition of the use of chemical weapons. The reality is that progress on the Syria dossier has been completely blocked in the Council for a long time, including with regard to the chemical attack of 4 April. On April 13, Russia used its eighth veto the eighth time, mind you! In the case of a resolution on Syria. Again and again, this raises the question of how to respond to gross violations of international law, namely the use of chemical weapons. It's obvious that's rubbing here. The Dutch Government therefore understands the warning given by the United States with this attack. Then I would like to say something about the future, because this does not mean that we have a solution to the Syrian conflict right now. It is an element in this, which has rightly received all the attention. This proportional warning was really essential, but that is not the same as a United States strategy or bringing a solution to the Syrian problem. I have always said here what the ingredients should be for such a solution. I do think what happened might have an impact on that. I do not yet have any proof of this, but it is the political assessment of the Dutch Government and a direction in which our initiatives should take place. First of all, I think that the use of chemical weapons is now at least a clearer red line. It is important in itself that this standard is restored. I say immediately that the gross violations of human rights, including the forced evacuations requested by the Chamber, continue. At the same time, I believe that the regime of Assad and its allies will change their minds twice before they make such an attack again. In that sense, it is important. The United States has now shown, also with the understanding that others have shown, that Assad and Russia are not the only ones who can determine what is happening in Syria and that we can return to the only solution to this problem, namely a political one. I think that's very essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mr Jasper van Dijk is a bit impatient, because he is very anxious to interrupt. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u128	Yeah, I wanted to interrupt a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u129	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u130	But then the minister went on to his next block, but okay. Let me come back to his position: understanding rather than support. I understand that reasoning. In fact, I understand it's been a dilemma. Why didn't he wait for the investigation? Trump didn't wait to do that, but the Minister already understood his actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u131	Yeah, I think that's right. In the last three years, we have seen that you can wait until midnight before there is an investigation and before there is any clarity. At the same time, the use of chemical weapons, contrary to international law, continues. I do not want to be aware that the next day chemical weapons are being used again simply because an investigation has not been completed. We really have strong clues as to where this story comes from. I agree with everyone that you need to have complete certainty about that. I myself, as a Member of Parliament, was on your side in my opposition to the Iraq war and to the need to have facts on the ground. This does not mean, however, that in a dilemma in which red lines of international law are directly at stake, we should not choose. That is why we have chosen the word 'concept' very accurately and precisely. I note that a large majority in the Chamber supports that. At the same time, I have made clear my position as regards legitimacy and whether this is in accordance with international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u132	I appreciate that. The Minister is very clear about that. Apparently, it's been a difficult consideration for him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u133	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u134	But waiting for the investigation to come to justice? He writes in his letter that it is still a few weeks away, so we may soon have much more information. Does the Minister recognize that Trump's analysis might have been wrong? Quite a few people and experts say that things could be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u135	I see a lot of fake news coming along. I rely on the reports received by the Dutch government from their own intelligence services and from reliable allies. I say immediately that this is not the only thing; that is why I think the investigation is important. We are committed to this, we are helping to finance it, and we hope that it will be done. Again, it is the well-known countries who are trying to frustrate that investigation. They must have a reason; I don't know. In any case, I hope with you that the word'sint-juttemis' does not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u136	Speaking of fake news, does the Minister remember how Colin Powell lied to us all in the Security Council in front of the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u137	Yes, then I was on your side and I had the same comments. I felt that there should be facts in order to be able to actually intervene in a military capacity. Today, too, I say that this requires an international mandate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u138	How solid is the Minister's confidence in the trustworthy allies he's talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u139	That's pretty rock solid, but that doesn't change the fact that I think it's important to look at their own services. At the same time, I think it is important for the Dutch Government to commit itself to that investigation. Moreover, this morning it was found that sarin was used against victims, including young children, who were taken from Syria to be investigated in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u140	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u141	I would like to say a few words about the future. That's really essential. I said that there could be some changes. I agree that if something like this happens, it's not a strategy. We have seen a number of positions in relation to President Assad's role, to the relationship between the Russian Federation and the United States and to military action if necessary, given the circumstances I have just described. But I do think it is my mission and the mission of the Dutch Government to consider whether, in such a situation, maximum efforts can be made to return to the only solution available, namely the political one. That assignment hasn't gotten any smaller. I can't prove that the assignment's getting bigger. I believe that the idea that the United States is giving Russia the opportunity to deal with the Syrian crisis in its own right is a thing of the past. That's important. In addition, the position with regard to Assad has been relied on by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the past week, following a previous switch. I think it was right to do so. I will return to the point of regime change in a moment. At the same time, the fight against ISIS continues. Fortunately, we have come back to a level where conflict can take place, after the problems in the first week of the conflict between the bombings of allies on ISIS, the problems of Russia and the actions there. This means that, as far as I am concerned, there is an opportunity for a new balance to be struck in the fight against ISIS. There is also the relativisation of the position of instability-creating Assad and there is the possibility of a political solution. That is what the Dutch Government will focus on. This means something for the position of the European Union. I am happy to agree with the critics and I am also critical of this. I have said before that we have exchanged in previous debates that the EU should not only be a player in reconstruction and in promoting stability, but much more also a player in the political field. That is why I believe that the messages that will be sent next week from the European Union towards the Russian Federation should not just say: we are not going to start reconstruction until there is a political settlement. I think that will bring some pressure, but not really serious pressure. The EU will also have to ensure that the pressure on the Russian Federation is increased. We do not agree on sanctions. However, I very much agree with those who define the co-responsibility of the Russian Federation on all these points. I therefore also believe that pressure from the European Union must increase, both on Russia and on Iran. Let me say the following here. It's not like one's good and the other's bad. The Syrian conflict has gradually become a proxy war of various sectarian groups. This conflict has begun as a legitimate protest against Assad's very repressive policy. So he's never been a stabilizer. In fact, his protection of very limited interests of certain alevite groups and his own power structure has led to a huge criticism from Syrian society. But of course, the Syrian struggle has now become almost a battle of everyone against everyone. Hobbes' solution is not to say: there is one new dictator who will ensure peace and security. That is the stability of the grave, the stability of the chemical weapons, the stability of the refugee flows. We are talking about the stability of the instability-creating dictator responsible for the large refugee flows in Europe. There's absolutely no future in that. To be honest, this is also a rather naive view of what regime change is. There's no one out for regime change. This has nothing to do with the Iraq war. Not every intervention is the same. Not all situations in international politics are comparable. It is a question of creating this stability now only if there is a possibility, in cooperation between the Russians and the Americans. I see the odds of that have increased slightly because of what happened last week. I think they're slightly enlarged. However, I cannot give any guarantees. In any case, there must be an opportunity for a transition in which there will be another possibility of governance. That is essential. This has nothing to do with the institutions, because the institutions of the Syrian state will probably have to be preserved to a large extent. We will not have to make the mistakes made, at least in my opinion, in the Iraq war. There was indeed a regime change. There was indeed the use of military means, which was not in line with the facts. This also led to a regime change in which there was a high degree of naivety. So I agree with that criticism. But none of that is at issue here. We are dealing here with a government of a dictator who is massively using the grossest resources and who has not tried to find accommodation in any way after his own policies had led to instability. Then this has become a huge regional problem, without the good and the bad, and for which only a political solution is needed. I think that in the next period the Dutch government will continue to act along three lines, which are based on what has already been advocated. Firstly, this is the role of the European Union and to make it a more political actor. There is more to it than I am doing now, but for the sake of time I will leave it at that. We've discussed that before. Secondly, there is the International Syria Support Group. It was actually leading a dormant existence, except perhaps in the humanitarian field, but he did not achieve any success there. I would remind you once again that the Assad regime does not allow any humanitarian access in difficult situations. So we will try to operate along that road as well. Thirdly, in any case, we are not a great world power here, and I say to the Labour Party's group that we are going through with the important point of the evidence bank. The evidence bank is not a childish thing. We've talked to 200 experts about this. It will be taken very seriously and can start soon. In any case, it is a sword of Damocles for all parties responsible for crimes against humanity. This applies not only to the Assad regime but indeed to a number of other groups in Syria. I come to a number of questions raised in this context by Mr De Roon. Is Al-Qaeda still being dealt with? The anti-ISIS coalition, which we are part of, is fighting extremism there. The coalition focuses in particular on the ISIS bulwarks in northern and eastern Syria. The Syrian branch of Al-Qaeda is also being fought by the coalition. The extremist groups, for example, are not covered by the truce previously agreed. In addition, Al-Qaeda mainly owns territory in the western part of Syria. That's where the Assad regime is. As the Chamber knows, the coalition doesn't work for Assad. Al-Qaeda is indeed a major threat. It tries to force other armed groups to join Al-Qaeda. The weakening of the legitimate opposition is slowly but surely pushing them in that direction. That is why it is so important to keep the support programmes. Mr De Roon is absolutely right that it is essential to ensure that we do so too, I can assure him that what we support does not come into the hands of Al-Qaeda. That will be monitored very severely. In doing so, it is indeed important that the Dutch aid is applied very carefully. I still owe Mr De Roon an answer to the question on the issue of international law, but I actually answered it. I have something different in that than Mr De Roon. I understand the reasoning. You can operate in extreme need sometimes. I do not think that is appropriate in this situation. We could, if necessary, exchange that further. I raised the messages to Moscow and what we should do there. Thank you once again to the Animal Party for its contribution, I say that all substances that can be directly relevant to a chemical weapons programme are internationally and/or Europeanly controlled. For this there are the Chemical Weapons Convention, with a static list of chemicals, the European Union's dual-use regulation, the Australia Group, in which more than 50 countries cooperate in the framework of the Chemical Weapons Convention checklist and the EU sanctions regulation for Syria, which deals precisely with how we can control these matters. In this sense, therefore, we are at the forefront of the important points raised by Mr Van Raan. Mr Van Ojik has asked whether we can help evacuate refugees from Idlib to safe neighbouring countries. I would love to, because these people are a very vulnerable group. We have seen the attacks on the exchange of Sunni and Shiite groups. The only thing we are capable of now is humanitarian aid and protection. For this, access is already difficult and complicated. Nor can we force people out of their country at the moment. People have to want that for themselves, and they often don't want that. It's about an exchange within Syria. Safe neighbouring countries must also agree. For example, Lebanon and Jordan already receive many refugees. They're already having a hard time. We have talked about resettlement from neighbouring countries before. I don't have much to add to that. The Chamber also exchanged this with Mr Dijkhoff. Mr President, you look very closely at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u142	Yeah, you got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u143	They're questions from your room. I'm trying to answer that as precisely as I can. Let me say to Mrs van den Hul that the importance of women in the Syrian peace process for the Netherlands is essential. We are also, in fact, the country which, together with Norway, is most committed to this through the special envoy's office. The Women's Advisory Board consists of twelve independent representatives of civil society organisations. I also received some of them here the other day. That includes both regime and opposition. That's unique. You hardly ever find that. So it's a tremendous force that they come together. Those women do that to each other. You don't find that in the men at all. They are very closely involved in the work of De Mistura. It is incredibly important that we continue to do so, and we will do so. Mr President, I think I should leave it at that, given the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u144	Yes. Are there any questions left? Yeah? Which one, Mr Ten Broeke?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u145	Yeah, and not entirely irrelevant, I guess. We have said that although we understand and support the military action of the Americans, this is not a licence for US action, at least not from this administration, in the Middle East, and certainly not from Syria. I'm very concerned and have great doubts about the unpredictable performance. For the sake of time, I will not quote all the quotes again, but for what occurred the week before the military attack in that American administration, you need a number of pages. What does the Dutch government say about that? What are we going to do to clarify that? For predictability is of great importance to the Western world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u146	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u147	It's not so easy to answer that. The unpredictability of the new Washington government is great. The only way we can influence it is by doing so as much as possible with allies in Europe. I also note that the line we have proposed, which I have just put forward here, is once again receiving a great deal of support from this American government. But I am concerned about the unpredictability. We have seen this on other fronts of America's foreign policy. That is why we invest a lot in transatlantic relations. I think it is important for Europe to play a greater role in this. I've been working on that for a while. I have already raised the whole debate on the anti-IS coalition in debates before. I had also expected a clearer position from the United States on what we are actually going to do in that fight. The Netherlands, together with allies, will bring that up again with the Americans. So I actually share Mr Ten Broeke's analysis. I also see, of course, that enormous changes are taking place, because that policy has not yet been crystallised and it is such an important power that others are going to anticipate that unpredictability. This means that this vacuum must also be filled by a greater role of the Netherlands, but certainly also by larger allies in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u148	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u149	Good thing we're sharing the analysis. The advantage that the Minister has is that he can also take action on it the next time he speaks in the NATO Council. Let me ask a very specific question. We have both long been in favour of the NATO-Russia Council being restored. Does this also apply to the conflict agreements in the areas around Aleppo, say the part of Syria ruled by Assad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u150	Yeah, those appointments are fixed for the most part. I should just make sure that's 100%. But that is at least a result of the otherwise not very clear meeting between the US and the Russian government. And let us be honest, there is also a dilemma, a paradox, because it is essential for the Russian Federation to put pressure on the regime of Assad to make changes that can lead to a political solution. In that sense, these relations are therefore of great importance. That's what the American government has invested in. But she also saw that the Russian Federation was simultaneously pursuing a disastrous policy in Syria. In that context, I see a certain momentum now. I have told you why this action could perhaps help in a positive way, and we can strengthen and intensify policy on this very point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u151	I have not yet heard a reply from the Minister to my question about the Christian minorities in Syria. Aren't those our natural allies that we should be supporting? Those are also the people who are asking us to stop weakening the regime of Assad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u152	There are a number of elements that are important here. First of all, I don't know if we have any natural allies. In the past, I have also generally had a very good exchange of views with Mr Van der Staaij on the very vulnerable role of Christians in the Middle East, including Syria. That is why it is so important that they too remain protected in the future. That is why it is so essential that these peace negotiations are held. You have very little to protect by a dictator you can't rely on and who will deal opportunistically with your interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u153	I'm gonna go sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u154	That's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u155	I'll be right back. I would like to add my voice to what Mr Ten Broeke said. Shortly before and without the chemical attack in Syria, Trump had taken a position on whether or not to maintain the Assad regime. My question is whether this should not be an additional encouragement for the European Union to act more actively. Syria is also closer to the European Union than to America, although of course America has its own interests; think of Turkey and the overall uncertainty in the Middle East. Was there no additional reason for the EU to act much more actively for the chemical attack, especially now, given Trump's view of whether or not Assad should remain? Isn't that even more so since the failure to solve the Syrian problem leads to a permanent refugee problem, with all the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u156	I can only share that vision. It is my great concern, too, that this is not always easy in this house, I say honestly that if we really want to make the European Union a strong actor who can operate politically, economically and, if necessary, also militaryly, we must also give the European Union that strength and power. A lot of people disagree on that, not in this Chamber or in other countries. So I am not suddenly going to suggest that the European Union will have that role tomorrow, but the political conviction of me and of this government is next and we have invested as much as possible in it. As a smaller country in Europe, we have every interest in making maximum use of the interests that directly affect us. Mr Van Rooijen is quite right that this is far less directly the case with the United States. That is why I am convinced that Mrs Mogherini can operate much more politically towards Russia and Iran. We are going to give her that mandate; the Germans are also in favour of it. For example, the United Kingdom is not in favour of this. Other countries are not in favour of this either, but we are. I can give you some more...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u157	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u158	I can break it down now, but that is at least one element in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u160	The letter states that a solution by purely military means will not succeed. The minister just indicated that he sees a rapprochement between Russia and America, and I also like to be optimistic, but where does he base the optimism that they are going to work better together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u161	Then I haven't expressed myself well, as it's called. At least I didn't want to say that. I myself felt that at the last meeting the tension between Ministers Tillerson and Lavrov was clear. That is understandable, because the Russians are very negative about the American action in Syria. In that sense, this relationship is not good at the moment, but I have formulated the possibility of the Russian Federation not always acting in its interest, but at the same time not having a total licence for actions in Syria. This creates an opportunity to pursue active policies in the direction of Geneva from Europe and other countries. That's what I'm looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u162	Let us now move on to the second term, as far as we need it. That's the case. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union. Speaking time is 1 minute and 20 seconds, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u163	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the additional information on the context in which we are currently in. The news of this debate was that at least we seem to have received information from our own intelligence services that Assad is most likely responsible for the poison gas attack in Syria. In doing so, the Minister has not yet made it very clear that our own intelligence services have their own resources. The Minister leaves that in the middle; he does not want to say anything about it. The Davids Committee considered that an important point at the time. I would ask the Minister to respond to this in the context of that committee. This additional information still does not lead the Minister to express political support for the attack by the Americans. He's sticking to the word "understanding." That is why I can say on behalf of the Christian Union that the Christian Union expresses political support for this cabinet when it comes to the word 'understanding'. Maybe that'll help in context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u164	Do you have a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u165	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u166	I'd read to her if I were you, because you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u167	The motion deals with the last sentence the Minister used for European involvement, and Trump's possibilities. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas for a strategy aimed at ending the war in Syria and achieving peace, it is desirable that subsequent U.S. military actions should be carried out with the widest possible international support;]] [[calls on the Government, through the European Union, to urge the US Government to obtain the widest possible international support for further military action against the Syrian regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u168	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply. Indeed, it is new that based on the independent position of the Dutch intelligence services with a high degree of probability, the chemical attacks can be attributed to the Assad regime. I listened to the Minister very carefully. I see a somewhat more definite minister than in the letter. This will not change our position: we support the cabinet in its understanding. In this sense, political support from our group for the position of the Dutch Government. However, the question remains on the table, a question that has been somewhat neglected in this debate, to what extent the EU can play a significant role in the future of Syria, and thus also in a ceasefire and a peace agreement, and as far as the Minister is concerned, the role that the High Representative should play when visiting Moscow. It seems clear to me that the Russians have the key, not only to this conflict, but to many other conflicts. It would be good if the EU could work together, because lack of unity does not help to strengthen that position that is so important if we do not want to be sidelined in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mr De Roon waived the second term. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u170	Mr. Chairman. There is no certainty about the culprits of the horrible poison gas attack in Syria. Therefore, judgements as support and understanding are premature. It would be right, in international law, to wait for the investigation to be carried out. In addition, there are numerous unforeseen consequences and increasing tensions. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of poison gas, as recently in the Syrian city of Khan Sheikhoun, is a serious violation of international law and those responsible should be punished;]] [[Considering that the US military response to this, with dozens of cruise missiles fired at a Syrian air force base, is also contrary to international law, given the lack of an adequate international mandate;]] [[noting that the US cruise missiles were fired before the completion of independent investigations into the charge and responsibility for the use of poison gas;]] [[Notes that tensions in the region have continued as a result of US military action and reports that allies of the Assad regime have since increased support for the regime in Damascus;]] [[Considering that a solution to the hopeless suffering of the population of Syria, torn apart by civil war, has not come any closer by using military means;]] [[calls on the Government to condemn both the use of poison gas in Syria and the US attack on the Syrian Air Force base,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first answer. I congratulate Mr Van Raan on his maiden speech. I couldn't have done that yet. I believe that a number of colleagues have not yet been able to do so either, colleagues Voordewind, Knops and Jasper van Dijk. I am undoubtedly also speaking on behalf of them when I congratulate them. We are talking today about the poison gas attack in Syria following the American retaliation. Indeed, the news is that, on the basis of independent information, too, that is the wording which the report of the Davids Committee also refers to, is highly likely to have been done by the Assad regime. You can of course also believe Simon Hearsch, but he also thought that Bin Laden was not killed by American SEALs. I do need proof, but I do not need it to maintain an ultimate standard in the question of whether we support the concept but also the military attack of the Americans. Davids came back. I am only pleased to note that the VVD and the SGP no longer defend the minority position of Van Walsum alone. We already had the party program of D66 that spoke out on that. I could almost endorse that. Other parties have now joined, with the exception of a number of passivists, and I think this includes the Forum for Democracy. It's interesting to observe that. That also creates other relations in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u172	Even for the record. When we discussed the Davids Committee in this Parliament, my group chairman said that he was in favour of Mr Van Walsum on that point. So it was not only the VVD and the SGP, but also the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u173	You've made your point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u174	I note that point and I acknowledge it. That is why my first question to Mr De Roon, who, during this parliamentary period and during this first period, created some confusion, because he did not want to express his full support. Unlike Mr Baudet, who was very clear and said: I do not support Trump and for the time being I think it would be wise to support Assad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u175	We just had that discussion. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u176	With thanks for the compliments I have just received from Mr Ten Broeke, I would like to correct that neither the Forum for Democracy nor the naive idealists can be placed among the naive passivists. We are in the tradition of realism, and that may mean a necessary war and that may mean the use of force, but that is not really necessary in the current situation. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u177	Mr Baudet has also made his point clear. Thank you, Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u178	I thought I might be able to answer this. We'll talk about realism later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u179	I'm sure it is. I'm kind of chasing you guys up because I'm already seeing the prison staff's crew in the room. Sorry about that. I call Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u180	Mr President, we had not noticed that you were in any hurry. I'll be brief. I would like to congratulate my colleague Mr Van Raan and thank Minister Koenders for his answers. Especially his description of Assad as the stability of the grave, as the stability of chemical weapons, I found striking and also a clear assessment of the fact that this kind of stability is of course not stability, but perhaps a worse alternative than chaos. Colleagues have also said it to me: it is important news that our intelligence services also have independent information confirming that, unfortunately, Assad has used these weapons again. In my view, it still raises the question of the Minister only briefly how the pressure on Russia can be increased in order to distance Assad. The Minister says 'I don't feel like sanctions', but if we want to become a political player in this conflict, what means does the European Union still have to move Russia to let go of Assad? I see someone standing by the interrupting microphone, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u181	Yeah, me too, but were you done with your second term speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u182	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u183	Okay. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u184	I have not heard the Minister say that our intelligence services have independent information. I didn't hear him say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u185	Maybe I should quote him more precisely. I have heard 'own sources', but of course we will all read back the stenogram of this sitting for the exact wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u186	Does Mr Sjoerdsma share my view that this is a crucial point? After all, we may trust our own intelligence services much more than international intelligence services and the CIA. So this is a very crucial point. Does Mr Sjoerdsma agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u187	It is absolutely essential, in every respect I believe, that our intelligence services are able to independently verify what has happened in countries to which we are politically, economically or militaryly responding. That is lesson, an expensive lesson, by the way, which we learned from the Iraq war. I would like to distance myself from Mr Baudet's comparison with Iraq. There it was about something that was supposed to be present, but eventually there wasn't. Here, however, an attack has obviously taken place, more than evidently. I would not call into question that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u188	Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate Mr Van Raan and thank the Minister. I have two comments to make. A more political European Union, the Minister said. I wish. There is not always unanimity in this house, that is correct. I'd wish that, too, with him. That is why I would ask the Minister to make a real political effort to make the EU strategy for Syria, as published on 3 April, the day before the poison gas attack. It's a shopping list with everything in it. That might be good, but when everything's in there, it often doesn't say anything. If the Minister wants to make the EU more political for Syria, I invite him to review the EU strategy for Syria with his colleagues at the next opportunity and to explore how it can be made operational. That is what I would like to call a more political EU in the first place. The Minister shares my group's concern about the position of refugees in the Idlib province and in the rest of Syria. I didn't expect him to. He says: at the moment we can't do that much extra. I would ask him to consult with UNHCR, the UN Refugee Organisation, on this matter, to see what can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u189	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all the heartfelt congratulations. Thanks for the comprehensive answer. I heard there's a list. In this respect, our questions are being met, but we do not think it is enough, hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the current export policy leaves room for tightening up on exports of raw materials which may be used for the manufacture of chemical weapons;]] [[Whereas such a list of raw materials exported by Dutch companies is or can be produced;]] [[calls on the Government to bring forward a ban on exports of these raw materials to countries in conflict zones or countries that violate human rights and to extend this ban to countries that wish to export raw materials to such countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u190	The second motion is exactly the same, but it calls for an investigation. Do you want me to read the motion anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u191	Yes, but first Mr Sjoerdsma has a question, probably about the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u192	Yes, on the previous motion, because I would like to give my group good advice. I have heard the motion, but I wonder how the motion distinguishes itself precisely from the arms export policy that this minister is implementing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u193	Thank you for that question. I understand from the Minister's reply that there is indeed a list and that there is also control of substances, but that there is no actual ban. That's what the motion is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u194	In summary, therefore, you want to remove our arms export policy from control and move towards a total ban. Did I get that correctly? So it is no longer an arms export policy but an arms export ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u195	To those countries that are qualified in the motion, but I must be honest: I do not understand exactly the scope or depth of your question. So I cannot answer the question 100%. Maybe we can come back to that after the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u196	Fine. Proceed with the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u197	Yeah, I'll read you the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the current export policy leaves room for tightening up on exports of raw materials which may be used for the manufacture of chemical weapons;]] [[Whereas such a list of raw materials exported by Dutch companies is or can be produced;]] [[noting that that list of raw materials also contains many raw materials suitable for many other purposes;]] [[Whereas there are many hooks and eyes on the introduction of prohibitions;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether a ban can be imposed on exports of such raw materials to countries in conflict zones or countries that violate human rights, and to extend this ban to countries that wish to export raw materials to such countries, and to report to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32623-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u198	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Van Raan on his maiden speech. I did my maiden speech myself last week. I forgot to congratulate him in the first round and I ask him to understand that. I thank the Minister for the answers. Mr President, I would like to ask whether the Minister's final statement, which he would have liked to hold before you said 'Minister, stop for a moment in the first term', could be completed. After all, I think he was eager to explore a greater role for the European Union in the Syria conflict. Syria is closer to us than looking through American glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u199	Thank you very much for your support, Mr Van Rooijen. I understand the Minister can answer directly. The last two motions are coming up. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u200	Mr. Chairman. I will make a limited statement on the role of the European Union, but I hope that it will nevertheless be to the point. First of all, with regard to the information position, I note that I have spoken on the basis of available information; that was the term. I understand that the non-use of 'political support' in the Chamber is widely shared. On the basis of Mr Van Ojik's suggestion, I would like to talk to the UNHCR. With regard to the European Union, I would like to make the following point. I actually criticised that strategy in the debate we had last week with the European Foreign Ministers and with others at the summit on Syria. That took place on the day of the attack, on the same morning. Fortunately, this led everyone to see that it is a good thing that we have a policy of stabilisation that should not be underestimated, in any case, early recovery, humanitarian aid. It is all important and, of course, at the heart of the matter is whether you are playing a political role and whether you are influencing your partners, whether it is the pressure on Russia or the question of how you are dealing with Iran. Are you going to put pressure on those countries if something happens to what they really see as Assad's guardian angel? Are you prepared to play a more active political role in the Gulf? That is at the heart of what we need to do now. This is independent of the fact that we already do so at times when it comes to supporting De Mistura. However, the EU is not the UN; it is a political actor. I think we can do better in those areas where we have an integrated policy. I have proposals for that, too. I would point out to the President that I should not go into too much detail at the moment. This means that I am now going to discuss the motions. Mr Voordewind's motion for a resolution 171 I do not advise, not so much because I do not feel a certain sympathy for it, but then we are really going to state that military action must have the broadest possible international support. Of course, they should normally have an international mandate, but I do not think it would be wise to put an intermediate category in a motion now. I would, however, like to say that this is, of course, the message towards the United States, not a policy that changes and is unpredictable. Should this occur again at all, it should be supported and shared more widely. I would point out that in very specific situations the time may be too short to respond. I support the direction that Mr Voordewind is taking, but I reject the motion as it has been formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u201	Mr Voordewind, on this motion. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u202	I want what the Minister does not like in the motion. The motion calls on the government to acquire as broad a coalition as possible in military action, as required by international law. Of course, preferably international law through the UN Security Council, but if that is not possible as in this case... I would say that it is almost standing policy and more is meant to be a support in the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u203	I think the motion is too vague, with all due respect to Mr Voordewind. The motion calls on the government to urge the US Government to take next military action... I have no idea which one. There are also actions that we may reject or not want at all or which are not aimed at chemical weapons, other actions towards ISIS or any actor. I am always in favour of "the widest possible international support..." Here, the international mandate does not seem to be so important. I know that Mr Voordewind does not think so, but I do not think that this motion will help us much further in what we have discussed today. In that sense, I advise her that I am very prepared to speak with the US Government in the light of the change in the strategy and to introduce the predictability of its actions on this point, as Mr Voordewind means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u204	Because the Minister expresses my intention well and thus also goes towards Europe, the motion is superfluous. The Minister is actually taking her over. I withdraw the motion because I am satisfied with the Minister's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u205	Since the Voordewind motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u206	I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 172. I think it is wrong to condemn the American attack on the Syrian Air Force Base. I think we have had this debate with the Socialist Party. I note, however, that I do not see what policy the Socialist Party is in favour of protecting people. It's an endless wait for all kinds of investigations while the hopeless suffering continues, but okay. I disagree. I would therefore advise against this motion. The Van Raan/Azarkan motion in part No. 173 and the Van Raan/Azarkan motion in part No. 174 I'd like to dissuade. The current dual-use goods regime is sufficient. There is therefore no need for a ban. I also mention denials in this regard. It also involves substances that you need for peaceful purposes. Therefore, there could not be a prohibition. For example, milk powder, coastal manure and plastic. In the first term, I said that we have a very punitive regime of arms export control, which, in my view, is also very adequate on this point. This was my response to the questions of the Chamber and the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-6.u207	This brings us to the end of this debate. We shall vote tomorrow at noon on the motions tabled.
