ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has about 9,000 council members, people who are committed to local democracy. They do this close to the people, for the sake of their congregation and to help them move forward. They often do that next to their regular job. But at what cost? Examination of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau among municipal clerks shows that council members work under great pressure. They have a lack of time and therefore sometimes a lack of knowledge. In 40% of the municipalities examined, it is difficult, according to clerks, for municipal council members to have sufficient time for the tasks they are required to carry out. In particular, in smaller municipalities, clerks seem to be more likely to indicate that municipal council members do not have sufficient knowledge and skills. As a result of the decentralisation of care and the growing number of partnerships, the tasks of municipal council members have increased, but not the time and remuneration they have for this, while the role of municipal council members in a well-functioning democracy is indispensable. We've talked about this before in the Chamber. I would like to ask the Minister how she points out the SCP report. I would also like to ask her if she agrees with me that the signal that the SCP is sending is disturbing. In particular, the clerks in small and medium-sized municipalities indicate that the pressure on council members is high. I ask the Minister what she intends to do to better support these smaller municipalities. In 2016, your predecessor, Minister Plasterk, presented an action plan to better support council members and reduce pressure. How does the Minister assess the SCP report in relation to that action plan? Are we on the right track or do we need a change of course? Will the Minister take further steps to support the municipal councils in knowledge and expertise?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Den Boer for her question. I've seen the SCP report. It is a broader report on the social domain and part of the report is a survey of clerks. This survey confirms what has already been observed by other committees, including the VNG, namely that there is indeed an issue for many council members in the Netherlands. The Netherlands still has many municipalities, also many smaller and medium-sized municipalities, where council members are sought, and fortunately also found, who spend a lot of time in addition to their other activities and their lives on council membership. I think we should be very grateful that they do. I think we should pay a great deal of attention to the equipment of these council members. And there's a bottleneck there. So I think the SCP report is basically the same as previous reports. I refer to the Van de Donk committee and the VNG think tank. The Rob has also said something about this before. Mrs Den Boer mentioned the budgetary treatment of BZK. At that time we also discussed this issue. At that time we said that there are already a number of routes running. One of these arose from the Wolbert motion and my predecessor has already started to do so. A one-off impetus has been given to ensure that the council members will be able to get to work soon after the municipal elections. So there's been a lot of things going on. It is also about training courses, meetings where people can learn from each other, competence profiles and competence scans. I think it is very important that this happens, and this needs to be finished. At the same time, I have a mandate both from the coalition agreement to do more about this and from the Chamber as a result of the debate. I have tried during the budgetary procedure that there is a great need to do more. For example, the Van der Graaf motion has been adopted which highlights the need for more training and tailor-made training for council members. In other words, I welcome the SCP report. I think the survey confirms what we already knew, namely: pay attention to those council members and to the fact that they do very important work for the Netherlands and their municipalities with relatively little time and sometimes also lack of support, also because of little time, small municipalities and relatively little support. We need to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	And the Minister also has two minutes' speaking time. Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. I have already mentioned the remuneration that council members receive for their work. It is of course very important that council members are fairly rewarded for their work. The remuneration a council member receives currently depends on the size of the municipality. The remuneration for council members in a small municipality is up to nine times lower than the remuneration in one of the largest municipalities, and of course there is a lot of work to be done there too. Is the work in large municipalities also nine times heavier than that of council members in a small municipality, where youth care should also be regulated? I ask the Minister how she looks at this crooked affair. Is it prepared to examine whether council members should receive higher remuneration in a small municipality? In addition, D66 wonders whether the Minister is prepared to look at alternative solutions to the workload of council members; you indicated this a little when you spoke about customisation. An example is the direct choice of members of the general board of large partnerships. Now council members do so especially in addition to their regular council work and this is one of the causes of a higher workload. If individual members are elected, this could help to reduce the workload for council members. How does the Minister view this? In addition, you can look at digital meetings or consult online, to reduce the number of physical contact moments or meetings, so that there is more time for council members to talk to the residents of municipalities. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mrs Den Boer asked me three questions in one minute. I'm gonna try to answer it in one minute. First of all, the question of remuneration for council members in small municipalities in particular. That is indeed a point that has been pointed out before. The amount of work in small municipalities is not necessarily less than in a larger municipality, and yet the council members receive a lower remuneration for this. I think that's a point to look at. At the same time, I have said before that council members do not do that work for remuneration, but I do think that you can ask that the remuneration is proportionate to the amount of work you do as a council member, so that has my attention. The second point concerns cooperation. I also said that we should look closely at it. I am certainly prepared to take into account the aspect raised by Mrs Den Boer. On the comment about online and digital I go briefly, because of the time. I myself know from my time in the Amsterdam College how much paperwork we pour out about the council members there. I think this is the case in every municipality. Council members are not just there to process paper, but they are there to properly understand and represent their congregation and the inhabitants of their congregation. They have to have time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her reply. I like to hear that she shares my concerns and that she wants to work with the workload of council members. This is particularly important in view of the municipal elections of March 2018. It is worrying that the course of council members is large and that they will not last longer than one term of office, which means that a great deal of knowledge and skill is lost. It is very important that city council members can carry out their work with the necessary time, knowledge and skills. That is what we need for a functioning democracy. That is why I look forward to seeing the Minister's actions. I'll keep following her on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you, Mrs Den Boer. Mr Krol, on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Madam President. As a result of decentralisation, we have moved more and more to municipalities here in The Hague. That sounds very sympathetic: closer to the citizen, but that also means that people have been getting more and more busy there. In the past, councilman was a side job, but nowadays you see that you get so much work that you start to wonder more and more whether it can still be a side job. That sounds very nice, but I notice that more and more people are getting in trouble. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	I think it is a fair observation that the council members have been given extra work because of the decentralisations. At the same time, it may also be in transition. We may not want to jump to conclusions right away, but we should also take a closer look at it. I think it is very important, if you give new tasks to municipalities, to take account of the need for democratic control in the municipal councils. This means that these council members are properly equipped in both support and training.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	We discussed this issue in detail during the General Reviews, and I know that the Minister is very keen on local democracy. Many council members are not civil servants and therefore do not work in a ministry during the day, in another municipality or are not teachers. There are council members who work with another employer. They can sometimes find it difficult to get free from their boss because the employer does not consider the importance of local democracy to be so high. Is the Minister prepared to talk to employers' bodies and see if we can facilitate council members working at a company so that they can be released?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	Councilmen have all kinds of backgrounds. Council members come from very different professional circles or have no employment, they are young and old. So they're very different. I know personal council members who work in business without any problems. If that were the case, I would like to send that message, because it is important that these employers also realise that they can contribute to the functioning of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	Firstly, a compliment to Mrs Den Boer, a D66 man who dares to ask questions about democracy. I'd be ashamed if I were D66 and wouldn't dare, but Mrs. Den Boer dares. I also have a question for the Minister. We see that council members are fewer and fewer representatives of the people who can represent the citizens. They have become more and more popular officials who have to get rid of large piles of paper. Does the Minister agree with me that council members have less and less to say about a lot of matters? The security regions are about security. In health care we have more than 800 partnerships. Does the Minister agree with me that if council members have to do their controlling task, they should also be dealing with business and we should stop outsourcing everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u15	Actually, I think council members are going over more and more. Because of the decentralisations, we have invested a lot at the level of the municipalities, sometimes in partnerships or common arrangements. I think more work has come to them before. This has given council members greater responsibility. However, I agree with Mr Van Raak that it is important to untangle the administrative spaghetti as much as possible so that city council members can carry out their important control tasks as much as possible and as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. We're gonna vote at 3:00, so I'm gonna suspend the meeting.
