ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u1	For the time being, two speakers have signed up for this VAO. The first speaker is Mrs Ouwehand, the applicant of this VOC.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. A proposal which the Chamber has been discussing for some time now, but which will probably be put to the vote in Brussels next Tuesday, is about the ban on the placing on the market of hormone-distorting substances already in force. That is what European basic legislation says. The European Commission should establish criteria for identifying hormone-distorting substances. The problem with the proposal that is now before us is that it undermines that ban in that basic legislation, while it was intended to bring it into force effectively. And that happens, when this Chamber has already said: we need to phase out all hormone disruptors in our living environment. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hormone disruptors can be harmful to human and animal health in very small quantities, and may cause various diseases such as neurological diseases, different cancers, an adverse outcome of pregnancy, obesity and type II diabetes;]] [[Whereas, by way of motion 32793, No. 261 has already requested a phase-out of all hormone-distorting substances in our living environment;]] [[Considering that a possible vote on EU criteria to identify hormone-distorting substances will be held in Brussels on 4 July;]] [[Whereas these criteria are necessary for the effective entry into force of the already existing ban on hormone disrupters;]] [[Considering that the criteria presented by the European Commission require a disproportionate burden of proof to identify hormone disrupting substances as such and that this will insufficiently protect public health;]] [[noting that the criteria presented undermine the existing ban on hormone disruptors rather than allow it to enter into force effectively;]] [[Considering that the most prominent doctors and scientists in the field of hormone-distorting substances call on the political authorities not to agree to these criteria because they will not adequately protect human and animal health;]] [[noting that, inter alia, the Swedish, French and Danish Governments are responding to this call;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against the European Commission's current proposal for criteria for hormone-distorting substances and to work with the countries mentioned for criteria that better guarantee human and animal health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1031]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u3	I have two brief follow-up questions. Has the Secretary of State received the appeal from, among other things, the Endocrine Society which was sent to politics two weeks ago? Furthermore, the European Commission has announced its intention to amend the basic legislation with the entry into force of these criteria, thus abandoning that precautionary principle. I can't find out whether that was reported in the last letter sent to the Chamber by the cabinet. However, I would like the Dutch Government to oppose this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr De Groot of D66 has signed up for this VAO. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. I have two questions for the Secretary of State. The first question concerns the soy declaration. In the letter to the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in June, I could not quite tell whether the Secretary of State intends to co-sign that statement, which would be signed in the margins of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in July. It was suggested in the press that the Netherlands would not sign that declaration. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State that he's going to endorse that statement. It is true that this declaration supports the cultivation of proteins in Europe. This is, of course, good for combating Europe's dependence on soya imports. The second question concerns organic farming. I read in the press that an agreement will be reached on this, but also that there has been unrest about the cultivation of organic farming and its competitiveness, particularly with regard to Spain. Spain would be given the opportunity under the new legislation to operate independently from the land by means of cultivation techniques, whereas the Netherlands, where it is grown on substrate or coconut, would not be given that possibility. This would lead to a significant reduction in the competitiveness of organic farming in the Netherlands. I would like to be clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you. The Secretary of State needs a minute to talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u7	The Secretary of State has received a motion and received four questions. So go ahead, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion. We have often discussed the proposal from the European Commission in the Chamber. Mrs Ouwehand's perception is always that the present criteria would make it more difficult to qualify a substance as hormone disrupting. I have repeatedly pointed out to the Chamber that in my view the criteria make it easier for a substance to be classified as hormone disrupting. This is based on the scientific criteria as established by the WHO. It works as follows: if a substance is likely to be hormone disrupting on the basis of the WHO criteria, then such a substance cannot be admitted to the European market at all. That is why I have always said that the proposal on the table is an improvement on the current situation. The new criteria must also be laid down, as Mrs Ouwehand says, in her motion for a resolution. They are needed, even without the rest of the proposal. But the new criteria simply follow the definition of the World Health Organisation. They have actually been accepted by all scientists and non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u9	It is true that we have been having this well-naïve discussion for a while, but now two weeks ago a letter has come from the leading scientists in the field of hormone-distorting diseases and causes. I've asked the Secretary of State if he's received it. Their opinion is that it is true, based on the directive proposed by the World Health Organisation, but that the criteria that are now before us undermine, rather than strengthen. We can now do well-nothing here, but if those doctors and scientists, who are the specialists in the field of hormone-distorting diseases, warn us, then I would think that should be taken into account in our assessment of what is now going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u10	It's complicated. We have the World Health Organization for a reason. That's the one looking at things like this on our behalf. I have just said that these criteria have been accepted by scientists, by non-governmental organisations, also by organisations that look very critically at this issue. They all support the criteria set by the WHO. Mrs Ouwehand always denies that, but I think you should come up with something more than 'there are doctors who dispute it'. This is really about the question of what criteria you assume when assessing whether a substance is likely to be hormone disrupting. Again, probably hormone disrupting, because it doesn't need to be established, it doesn't need to be shown that a substance is hormone disrupting. In fact, the original proposal of the European Commission stated that a likely hormone-distorting substance was not assessed, with the result that it was not authorised. Only one exception was possible, i.e. if an applicant could demonstrate that in practice the substance was not hormone disrupting on an organism. That was also why I have always said that the overall proposal is a considerable improvement on the current situation, especially for all those who are concerned about hormone-distorting substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u11	I'd like to go along with the good intentions of the cabinet and the commitment to this, but the devil is in the detail. The doctors who warn us say that the proposal is largely based on the guidelines of the World Health Organisation, and just on those small points it goes wrong. We do have a responsibility to do that properly. I'm asking the Secretary of State to do that. The Animal Party has considered that the basic legislation that should enter into force effectively does not enter into force 100% effectively but, more importantly, has an undermining effect. Any danger we run is too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u12	Mrs Ouwehand must then instead say 'you must vote against', explain here exactly the details on which she considers it to be different from the WTO criteria. In her motion, she called for a vote against the proposal. I advise the Chamber not to take that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u13	Then the questions, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr President, I would like to hand the letter from the doctors to the Secretary of State via the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u15	Absolutely. You've had four questions, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mrs. Ouwehand asked if I have received the call from the Endocrine Society. To my knowledge, it has been sent to the European Commission and the European Commission has provided it to the Member States. We have therefore received it and it is also on the agenda for 4 July. Then it will be discussed. In addition, Mrs Ouwehand asked when the second part of the Commission's original proposal was presented. The Commission has indicated that it intends to bring this into procedure as soon as possible. When is not yet known. Mr De Groot asked about the soy declaration. Of course, we have looked carefully at the cause of the reports that Mr De Groot had heard. I am sure I would like to sign that soy declaration on behalf of the Netherlands. This will be done by the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in July. That statement is in line with the policy we are pursuing, namely to increase the production of proteins in Europe, as well as the production of soya. We have a preference for non-gmo soya. We want to try to allow Europe itself to meet its protein requirements instead of importing only from overseas. His second question was about organic farming. A press release was published from the Commission on this subject, but we will not receive the underlying documents until July. It is therefore difficult to assess, but we do know that the report that Mr De Groot mentioned is the message that Spain would retain an exception and the Netherlands is not correct. Only the Scandinavian countries currently have the room to deviate from the rules in the regulation. It's about the greenhouse horticulture. There has been a great deal of discussion about this because, indeed, southern European countries wanted an exception to the existing rules. The compromise is now to leave only the existing situations intact for a certain period of time. This means that only the Scandinavian countries retain their present position of exception, that nothing else changes for all other countries, and that there are therefore no countries which have a new position of derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u17	A brief question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u18	The Secretary of State thought that I asked when the European Commission would bring the second part of the proposal to procedure, but I asked for his opinion on it. That is really important, even for the votes on the first part, those criteria. The Commission has said that it wants to amend the existing basic legislation. It now reads: hormone-distorting substances are prohibited, unless human exposure is negligible. The Commission wants to make this clear: hormone-distorting substances are prohibited, except where the risk to humans is negligible. That's what the discussion is about. The assessment of at least the Animal Party is that this is a deterioration compared to the existing basic legislation. This cannot be seen in isolation from the criteria that currently exist. I would like to hear from the cabinet that it opposes the European Commission's proposal to amend the basic legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u19	I am afraid to say how many times we have debated this, but I really do not think Mrs Ouwehand's assessment is the right one. This is actually about the exception to the rule. The rule is that a substance, if there are substances in it that are probably not even sure, is not even proven, but are probably hormone disrupting, is simply not assessed, unless... about the latter it is now. The current rules state "unless there is negligible exposure" and "unless there is a negligible risk." This shall be demonstrated by the applicant. What's the difference? A negligible exposure doesn't mean much. That only says something about the extent to which you are exposed to a substance, but that does not mean anything about the risk you are at. Even in the case of negligible exposure, you can, of course, be at risk in theory. By assuming the risk that there is for an organism, for humans, you can actually see whether, even at very limited exposure, there may be risks of using a hormone-distorting substance. In my view, this is a tightening-up of current practice, because it makes it much better to measure what is really at stake. After all, it is a question of whether you as a human being are at risk of disrupting your hormone system, yes or no, regardless of the extent to which you are exposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u20	I still have a question about organic farming. A number of Scandinavian countries have, in fact, been granted an exemption and not the Netherlands, but my question also concerned the situation in Spain, where land is dumped on a rocky soil which is then organically grown. There has been a huge expansion of that crop, to 1,000 hectares. It also looks up the German market. Meanwhile, in the Netherlands, there are innovations on substrate or coconut that are considered "organic" on the American market. That exception or that situation in Spain is apparently seen as ground-based, whereas the Dutch way of growing is not permitted in the new regulation. That puts the Dutch sector at a disadvantage. I'd like to know how the Secretary of State assesses that situation. Maybe he can let you know in the report of the Agriculture Council in July.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u21	In the annotated agenda that the Chamber receives, we will, of course, go into it in detail. The information we have at the moment does not show that the situation which the Spaniards have introduced, but which was not in accordance with the regulation, would be tolerated any longer. The only thing that will be tolerated any longer is the situation in the three Scandinavian countries, but that does not apply to the situation in Spain. That is the information we have at the moment, but I will deal specifically with it in the annotated agenda, because then we will also have the underlying documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-11.u22	The votes on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
