ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	The Secretary of State is back in, too. That means we can move on. The next item is the 30-member debate on the judge's ruling on air quality in the Netherlands. I will give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Van Raan, on behalf of the Animal Party. Speaking time is three minutes. In the second term, speaking time shall be one minute, including motions for resolutions. That's very short, so take that into account. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Again, a court ruling states that the government is not doing enough to protect the living environment of its citizens. It is shameful that the standard of clean air, which the Secretary of State himself classifys as vital, has been trampled on for years. The Netherlands has had years to comply with EU standards, but has failed to do so. This cabinet has failed and has not taken its responsibility. There is a high urgency to improve our air quality. After all, governance is not forward-looking. It's a gotsp that the Secretary of State says he's going to appeal. Instead, it should still shoulder its responsibilities and launch the necessary measures it should have taken over the last four years. In fact, both the Secretary of State for Agriculture and the Secretary of State for the Environment have completely outdone the growth of dairy farming, with all the air pollution. There have only been megasthals added, resulting in more fine dust in the air. There's been more asphalt. More is being flown and the airports are expanding. In short, we expected air quality measures, but more air pollution plans have been made and implemented. The Secretary of State must answer for this, and not only to the Chamber, but also to the children, the children who were symbolically put in the spotlight on Prince's Day by Minister Dijsselbloem of this cabinet. There's good news, too. The Secretary of State is happy to accept the lion's share of the verdict. Time for action, Mr. Chairman. This is supported by the intended government parties D66 and the Christian Union. During the elections, they told the electorate about a cleaner environment. For example, D66 says that temporary environmental zones contribute to CO reduction around the bottlenecks and the Christian Union states in its election programme that 120 km/h is hard on motorways. She wants to reverse the 130 km/h on highways. Mr. Chairman. Over the past eight years, in which two Rutte Cabinets have led this country, there has been time for extensive decentralised consultations and investigations. Those days are over now. Now it is important to reduce air pollution in the shortest possible time. We'd like to see the Secretary of State's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kröger, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Rijswijk, one of the cities with the dirtiest air in the Netherlands, I recently spoke to a lung patient. He asked me, "When do we finally take air pollution seriously?" Unfortunately, I had to keep the answer to him. Air pollution is by far the most deadly environmental burden in the Netherlands, with millions of victims and thousands of avoidable deaths per year. In 2011, the Netherlands should have met European fine dust standards. That didn't work. Neither was the year after that. And then I didn't. And still not. Eventually, it had to come to trial with a very clear verdict: take action and stop immediately projects that make the problem worse. And then this cabinet considers it appropriate to appeal against it. I'd say no more delay. Stop pollinating. Take those dirty diesels, the polluting livestock farms, the coal-fired power stations. Give the municipalities every opportunity to tackle local air pollution. But no, it won't. You are appealing to retain the right to add extra air pollution even in heavily taxed areas. This is evidence of wrong priorities with regard to GroenLinks. For our health we need cleaner air everywhere in the Netherlands. This requires generic measures. In the successor to the NSL we expect a package of measures that will ensure that next year all Dutch can breathe clean air. This judgment recommends an emergency plan for the bottlenecks identified by RIVM: livestock farms, motorways and inner cities. We can deal with them, with filters on stables or buying out farmers at lower speeds and with banning the dirtiest vehicles in the inner cities. We don't need to investigate this; we can do this now. Put those matrix plates on the ring roads at 80 and the first microgram is won. The RIVM's bottlenecks report also showed that only the neighbors of the megastal can be a bottleneck. Crossing the farm doesn't count. Is this true? That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. The farmer and the farmer's children are also entitled to clean air, aren't they? The judge was also clear about future bottlenecks. Those are all the places where there are plans to add extra pollution or areas where we are so close to the limit values that something like a slightly unfavourable weather already leads to an overrun. Secretary of State, can we get a list of all the projects and all the locations where this is imminent? Which places have a statistically significant risk of exceedance? What construction and infrastructure projects lead to the statistical probability that air pollution will increase? I would like to give a concrete example. In a few weeks' time you will come up with the decision on Maastricht Aachen Airport: more and larger aircraft, more cars and trucks, resulting in more air pollution. A new EIA was not necessary, but Maastricht and the A2 colours were already deep red in the Atlas Environment. What consequences do you draw from the judge's verdict? Clean air is vital. Then let's treat it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. The judge's ruling is clear. It is the responsibility of the Dutch State to comply with European air quality standards. The judge therefore condemns the State to make a plan to comply with those standards. Mind you, this is a result obligation. It is not a question of trying, but the air must be sufficiently clean. Air quality standards are there for a reason. They are there to protect our inhabitants from the effects on their health of particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide. Not only for the 1 million people in the Netherlands with lung disease but for all people. Every day more than 40 people end up in a hospital and 3 people die from lung cancer caused by air pollution. And every year in the Netherlands, more than 5,000 people die from unhealthy air they breathe. In some places in the Netherlands, living along a busy road is as unhealthy as smoking a half pack of cigarettes a day. At different locations in the Netherlands, emissions of particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide are measured and calculated. We still have too many places and by 2020 the concentration of harmful substances will be above the norm. These bottlenecks must be resolved as quickly as possible. We are therefore very much looking forward to the plan announced by the Secretary of State in her letter and to come to us at the beginning of November. We also receive the annual monitoring report of the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme. We are also curious about the answers to the written questions. It is therefore a bit weird to debate when we do not yet have these documents. Nevertheless, I ask two questions to the Secretary of State. Could it perhaps give up on the plan and how it will fulfil the responsibility of the Empire to resolve these bottlenecks? How are we gonna get clean air? The ruling also prohibits me from quoting "any measure which, in the RIVM's view, is statistically expected to lead to continued or renewed exceedance of the limit values for NO and PM." We ask the Secretary of State: why is this seen as an additional review? Are we mistaken when we expect this to be looked at? We are not consciously taking measures to improve air quality above the norm, are we? Mr. Chairman. I would like to talk much more about air quality in the Netherlands, something that affects the health of so many Dutch people. But it's hard to debate without the answers to the questions, without the Secretary of State's plan and without the monitoring report, so I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	There is another interruption by Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	I was just triggered by that quote from the verdict not to do anything. There are dozens of them, namely Grubbenvorst, the expansion of the megastal. There is already an overrun, while there is an enlargement. Does D66 agree with us that enlargement cannot therefore continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	As you know, there are a number of issues on the formation table and I do not want to anticipate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	There is a lot on the formation table but by chance not the expansion of the megastal in Grubbenvorst. So D66 can talk about that freely. We are now talking about an overrun and also about enlargement. Is D66 for or against expansion of the megasals there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	I am not the agricultural spokesman, so I fear that you should be with my colleague on a specific matter concerning a specific megastal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	A very brief comment, Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	I would like a statement of principle. There's been an overrun. The verdict says, "You have to stop doing that." We are talking about enlargement. Should you or should you not continue this expansion? You really don't have to be an agricultural spokesperson for that. That's just logical thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	I didn't understand part of it, but it's up to me. You say it's a judge's ruling. Then I guess I don't have much left to find out about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	To clarify, the verdict states that you should not do anything that results in an increase or exceedance of air quality standards. That's what we're talking about in Grubbenvorst. That is already the case, and enlargement is just more. Would you have to be for or against that? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	It has to comply with the judge's ruling. So if this goes against it, then they should take action there, but I do not know the specific circumstances of the case, so I find it difficult to give a ruling on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	Then I give the floor to Mr Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone's for clean air. Following the ruling of the welfare court, we must get to work and ensure that the Netherlands is not locked up. The Netherlands and all the people who work hard in our country do not benefit. Then what are the facts? Fortunately, the Dutch air is also clean and becomes cleaner and cleaner. In a limited number of places, 150 out of a total of 320,000 measurement and calculation points, the Netherlands does not yet meet European air quality standards in terms of nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter. Cleaner air is not a left or right issue. Everyone is in favour of better air and cleaner air and any emissions are potentially harmful. The VVD believes that we should address the exceedances of the standard and that we should meet our European air quality targets. That is what we are doing, and we will continue to do so for the last 150 through smart measures with all the parties involved. This ruling or appeal does not change that at all. The overruns are limited to some specific bottlenecks, urban and regional agricultural. Those locations map in detail, part one of the verdict, and then resolve, part two of the verdict, is wise, but within it there are differences between different interests, such as health and spatial planning, and social interests. In this balancing of interests, the VVD considers it important that we should not lock the Netherlands. With part three of the judgment, the judge puts a head on that and therefore needs clarity and the VVD therefore supports the decision to appeal. The Dutch air is clean and we are doing better than many other European Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	An interruption by Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u20	No one wants to lock the Netherlands. The Netherlands especially wants clean air, I think. I have a question for Mr Dijkstra. One of the aims of the NSL is to improve air quality. In the eyes of the judge, it did not succeed, given the verdict. The Secretary of State has announced an evaluation of this. Could Mr Dijkstra share the conclusion with the Animal Party that as long as that judgment and the NSL do not comply, the same NSL cannot justify the extensive expansion of all kinds of projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u21	We do not want to lock the Netherlands, I just said. Part one of the verdict is: identify where the bottlenecks are. That's about 150. We're going to get an extensive paper on that within now and two, three weeks. Part two of the judgment concerns a plan of action, a kind of complement to the NSL, to resolve those last 150 remaining bottlenecks. I think we should do that, and we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you for that answer. Mr Dijkstra therefore endorses the conclusion that the NSL does not seem to be satisfactory at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u23	The NSL is an extensive...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr Van Raan, you say something outside the microphone, but Mr Dijkstra has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u25	The NSL was created because we had many more exceedances. We had about 2,000. That number was first reduced to 1,100 and now we're at 150. If we follow the NSL and the judge's instructions to resolve the final bottlenecks quickly, that's a nice package. This may require some additional work, and it certainly requires specific tailor-made work, because it is really concentrated in certain areas. In the agricultural sector and inner urban areas you can really point out where that is. It is not, as you say, along the highways, because maximum speeds are only allowed if they keep us within the standards. So we solve those last 150 bottlenecks. From the figures in the budget, I can give you a whole list of things, and you can see that the air is getting cleaner and cleaner. This is mainly due to policy on sources, not by laying down all kinds of rules, but by adopting a policy on sources, by making demands on emissions, both in agriculture and in traffic, in industry and in energy, because of course there are many more sources of emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u26	No, Mr Van Raan, I see that you wish to interrupt, but you have interrupted in two instances. I have just given you an exceptional opportunity because of the very short answer you received, but it is now ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u27	I think I'm here. It is important to monitor the balance between all the different interests that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mr Dijkstra says in one and the same sentence that the Dutch air is clean, but also that we do not meet European standards for clean air. I'm surprised. Mr Dijkstra pointed out that, as far as he was concerned, or as far as the VVD Group was concerned, stricter policies would be needed to resolve these 150 bottlenecks. I wonder what kind of measures Mr Dijkstra is thinking of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u29	I think we should solve those last 150 bottlenecks. That's my job. We must comply with the European standard. That's what I'm here for. So you have to inventory first and then have a plan of action. The Cabinet will fix that. Those 150 bottlenecks are very local. This could include better flow, sustainability of transport to and supply of cities or source policies. Source policy must be pursued anyway, European, because in the long term it has the most effect. We've seen that, too. You can see that emissions halve about every ten years. That's what we're gonna do. If we are to carry out the NSL as it is now, but we need to do something about it from the judge; so we are going to do that, even the standards of the World Health Organisation will come into reach and we will probably solve the current bottlenecks by 2018 or 2020, just with existing policies. The judge says you need to do a little more, you need to make a plan of action for those final points. Well, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u30	The indications of bottlenecks indicate, as Mr Dijkstra himself says, that there is a lot going on around the inner cities. A number of major cities have set up environmental zones for their inner cities, which has a demonstrable effect on air quality. Is it an option for the VVD Group that municipalities can easily set up and maintain environmental zones? This can be done, for example, by linking registrations to car types, so that polluting dirty diesels can be prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u31	The VVD is not in favour of environmental zones. This is a very serious operation that will cost motorists and entrepreneurs. Source policy works much better. Research has been carried out, for example, on the effects of the environmental zone in Utrecht. In that TNO concluded that you can't actually trace back what's causing them to come. There is a good chance that these effects have been created by source policies, by replacing vehicles, by better flow. The judge has ruled, but if we exercise a little more patience, we'll get the targets on our own. Anyway, the verdict is there, so we're gonna get to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u32	An interruption by Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr Dijkstra says: we still have to achieve the goals in these 150 places. He says that local customisation is needed, but he also says in advance that we should not lock the Netherlands. That's what my question is about. It may be that at a location, for example in one of those agricultural locations, the only way to improve air quality appears to be that there should not be any further development in any particular economic sector, for example livestock farms. Does the VVD agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u34	I want to solve problems. That's our job. I want us to meet the standards. Imagine having such a location as in Nederweert, with a lot of agricultural holdings. Sometimes a renewal, also from a stable, can have very beneficial effects on air quality, because you can apply the latest technology immediately. For example, air scrubbers or emission floors where the manure immediately disappears, thus reducing emissions of ammonia, for example. In particular, therefore, innovation is needed. New techniques. Sometimes you have to say: here you can and there you can't do it anymore. That's right. But you really need to look very specifically at the customization. I can hear Mr Futselaar confirm that. I thought it was a good answer myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u35	Then I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Between December 5 and December 9, 1952, the biggest post-war disaster in British history took place in London. A combination of special weather conditions and the current London smog, produced mainly by coal and other fossil fuels, resulted in an estimated 4,000 people, young and old, dying in three days as a direct result of air pollution. Today, historians estimate the actual number of deaths to be about 12,000. I mention this historical example, firstly, because for some people the discussion about air pollution is still a kind of left-wing hobby, rather than talking about an assassin who causes more victims than many diseases and immediately shortens those lives. I do not want to suggest that the Netherlands is like London in the fifties, but also according to our own RIVM thousands of people die prematurely every year, then we are talking about days, months and sometimes even more because of air pollution. The second reason I use this example is that those December days in London were a wake-up call for British politics. Despite protests about possible economic damage, serious measures were taken to reduce emissions. In England in the twentieth century thousands of deaths were needed for a change, in polderland the Netherlands in the twenty-first century, a crowded-fund lawsuit against the State is apparently the turning point. How embarrassing it is to be forced, as a Dutch government, by your own citizens, through the courts, to abide by agreements that you have committed yourself to. It is shameful that it has had to come to this and that 'the dirty man' of Europe is put in the corner by the judge. You will only live at the Stadhouderskade in Amsterdam or between the stables in Nederweert. Traffic and livestock are poor neighbours and producers of fine dust and nitrogen dioxide, which directly affect the health of residents. It's situations that can't go on. Mr President, is the Secretary of State prepared to state here that achieving European standards at these 150 locations is not possible without a reduction in traffic emissions in large cities and a reduction in emissions from livestock farming in rural areas? Can this cabinet at least make that statement deep in its missionary period, so that we can help the successors? I see an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mr Futselaar shows an enormous historical awareness, but are his examples not completely flawed when you look at the situation we are currently experiencing in the Netherlands? We have a situation that requires attention and action, but the example mentioned by Mr Futselaar, as far as I am concerned, is completely flawed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u38	I have, of course, used the words 'The Netherlands is not the London of the 1950s', with which I want to make it clear that this cannot be discussed one-on-one, but there is a direct link between air pollution and public health. This is not only an environmental debate, it is also a public health debate. I refer to the effects on the 1 million lung patients in the Netherlands. RIVM says 16,500 people die prematurely. Those aren't mild numbers. Then I don't think you should pretend this is a limited local problem. This is a big Dutch problem that requires action. So no, I don't think I'm using wrong examples to answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u39	That concludes the interruption. Mr Futselaar continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u40	The Secretary of State writes to us that she talks with local authorities about accelerating and concreteising the approach. As far as SP is concerned, this is rather mild, also because local authorities do not always seem to be able or willing to say no to, for example, economic developments when public health is threatened. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State the following. Don't just talk about "what are we gonna do?', but also about "what aren't we gonna do?" What enlargements should not continue, what permits should be called into question and what painful choices should finally be made? Look at the timing!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you, timed tight! I now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Four weeks ago, the judge ruled that aviation quality in the Netherlands should be improved. A rather bizarre statement based on hot air, but unfortunately appropriate in a trend of activist judgments by D66 judges. We have of course already had this ridiculous Urgent statement on CO emissions, but also the statement on the gas extraction level in Groningen fits in with the list of activist statements, although of course we as PVV were happy with that, because we have been advocating a lower gas extraction for some time now. However, it has been a political choice of the coalition not to lower or even increase the level of gas extraction earlier, as Minister Kamp did in 2013. If judges no longer test the law but let their political feelings prevail, we are curious to see what more statements we can expect. Because you can count on this statement to ensure that all kinds of activist subsidy clubs see the chance to fight all wrong activities in their eyes. If this continues, I will not be surprised if we get court rulings about the maximum temperature of our heating, the use of our terrace heaters or a barbecue ban. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, this debate should have been held with the Minister of V and J, so that we could discuss the dysfunction of the judiciary. Judges who take action for the political cause and make ridiculous statements should actually be able to be dismissed, especially if they rely on super-statutory assessment frameworks, as the Secretary of State states in her letter. That is a striking observation, especially after the Secretary of State had previously indicated that he would accept the judgment and not appeal. How does the Secretary of State explain this twist? In her first reaction, did she let her activist heart speak? Or was she already in mind at her next job as campaigner for Milieudefensie? I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State who flew her back and why. Mr President, concluding. This statement can be made by the paper shredder as far as PVV is concerned. He will undoubtedly go through that after the appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u43	Thank you. Mrs Kuik is on the list of speakers, but she is not in the Chamber. Then I give the floor to Mr von Martels on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about air quality and, in particular, nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter in the air. These are very small particles which, in some places, may exceed the European standard for nitrogen dioxide on busy roads in inner cities and for particulate matter on busy roads in inner cities and municipalities with many livestock farms and have an impact on health. The judge has assessed national policies as insufficient to meet European standards. Like the Secretary of State, the CDA wants us to do more about this. This requires appropriate, generic and location-specific policies. The CDA therefore supports the additional identification of the sites and the establishment of additional policies. I do have two questions. It is not clear to me what it means that the appeal has no suspensory effect. Does the uncertainty identified by the State Secretary as to the prohibition on the State from taking measures which might lead to exceedances of the limit values remain? What can be done and what can not be done about the locations mentioned in the NSL progress report? My second question concerns the monitoring, calculation of nitrogen and particulate matter from the importation of municipalities. When reading the analysis of RIVM, I get the feeling that a calculation is made on the basis of input data from municipalities about permits and traffic numbers. Is that right? The RIVM states that there are uncertainties about the input data. What can we do about this? Is it true that the data imported from livestock farms can be outdated? Is this taken into account? In addition, I generally wonder whether measurements are also being used to improve the models. Are you willing to measure at the locations where there are exceedances? Then we can make local customisation possible in an appropriate way where there are actually exceedances. Often this is a historically growing situation where one or a few houses are located almost against the stable. I'd like to see the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u45	There is another interruption by Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u46	I'll just stand there for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u47	I am pleased to hear that the CDA also believes that the 150 bottlenecks should be properly identified and that additional policies are needed. I am curious to see what additional policy is involved here, particularly in the rural environment, where the CDA is thinking of tackling air quality bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u48	There's a lot of ways to do that. You can, of course, see if innovative measures can be taken. In addition, you must be sure of the cause of the exceedances or the reason that there have been exceedances. Then you must take appropriate measures. The VVD also gave it as an answer: doing customization locally. So you look at what's very obvious at that location.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u49	I would have expected from Mr von Martels, with his background as a farmer, a little more detail in the type of measures he sees in front of him, where agricultural holdings locally exceed the standards. Does Mr von Martels, for example, think of fewer animals in certain locations? Does Mr von Martels think of additional filters? Is Mr von Martels considering additional enforcement of mega-stables that exceed the standards? What is being thought of?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u50	You mention a whole range of possible things that you should pay attention to. I believe that any of the issues you raise could possibly lead to a solution. But I don't always think about animal numbers, for example. These are often more technical measures that can be taken or indeed innovative measures, which we do not know yet, but which can work very well in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you. Then we have reached the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has asked for a ten-minute suspension for the preparation of her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u52	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr. Chairman. I will try to answer all the questions asked as well as possible. You have all referred to it: on 7 September, the court in The Hague ruled in an interim action on air quality. That actually means that the state must now come up with a new plan. I have indeed said, and I also think that clean air is vitally important. This means that we are accelerating and making more concrete our efforts with the regions in which the remaining bottlenecks exist. I would like to say here that we take clean air very seriously. I am also in conversation with municipalities and provinces where there are still problems. Where are these bottlenecks now? This is about a few roads in the big cities. It is perhaps a good thing to stress this: in the big cities, not around them, that is important anyway, and in some areas with a lot of livestock farms like Nederweert. Much has been said about what has already been done in recent years, but I would like to point out here that we have now managed to bring back the perhaps 1,000 km road where there have been overruns to about 9 km where these exceedances are still in place. We also see that the number of areas with livestock farms that are a problem is decreasing year by year. Just, we're not there yet and I agree with those who say that you as a legislator have to stick to your own standards. We should, but it is not the case that no commitment has been made in recent years. That's what you can see from the results that speak for themselves. So I want to come up with a concrete package of measures, and we can do that very precisely. One of you mentioned the Stadhouderskade. That is indeed a problem in Amsterdam. Then it does not help, I say, to refer as alderman in Amsterdam to ships that are no longer wanted around, when you know very precisely that, for example, that Stadhouderskade is a subject to look at. And yes, there will therefore have to be changes in the area of traffic policy, for example. I was asked to say that today. Yes, that can and must be done, so a very precise solution will have to be found in such a city centre. The same applies to livestock farming. If you know that Nederweert, and we know that, just really has a problem, we'll sit down with the city council of Nederweert to see what that means. We always opt for the most effective measure, but also for one that takes as much account as possible of social conditions, spatial planning and others. These are considerations, and in the end we must ensure that we meet the standards. The court has also prohibited the State from implementing measures which, in the view of the RIVM, give statistical chances of exceedance. This part of the ruling does not refer to existing standards and is subject to more than one explanation. Mrs Kröger says: it is all very clear. No, it's just not; it's not very clear. That is exactly why we appealed on that point. Mr Van Aalst needed a lot of starting words to say: you wouldn't appeal first and now you did and why. Maybe a few things about that. I've always said, right when the verdict came: I'm going to execute it, because I'm going to make that plan. You can also see that we are simply following up on that statement for a very large part and not appealing. I also said at the time that we will continue to study the ruling. So I did not make a harsh statement that we will never appeal on any point. Perhaps it has been interpreted that way, also because I have been rather generous, and I am sticking to that and I am doing so again today about that part of the statement that we think we should simply implement, namely to speed up and concreteise the approach to solving these bottlenecks. There is now, also for our lawyers, an unclear interpretation of the term "statistical'. What does that whole concept mean? How are you supposed to handle that? The fact that I cannot give further information to the Chamber today is because we are still discussing this with the RIVM. It's a little puzzling, too. How are we supposed to deal with that? So you'll get more information on that, but not today. About my activist heart: yes, that's big. And about "the job": the most beautiful office in the world is the people's representation. You know that too, Mr. Van Aalst. I've been elected to this Chamber like you, and I'm sure I intend to work on that as well. So you don't have to worry; I'm not gonna end up somewhere with some action group. I'll be in the room later. You know where to find me!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u54	An interruption by Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u55	The Secretary of State mentioned my long run, but this was also a fairly long run for the interruption. Did I not understand correctly that the statement by the Secretary of State that she is accepting the ruling is completely incorrect? Or was she actually just flagged back to the ministry, like: it's not right what you said here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u56	At least the proportions in my ministry aren't like I'm the one getting whistled back. I'm sure you can imagine that. I did say right away: I accept that I am going to make the plan that needs to be made. But it has apparently been interpreted as: I am not going to appeal at all on any point. That is not the case, because we have always said at that time: we must study the ruling. That has resulted in the following. I'm very precise in that, because I'm not a lawyer and I just have to look at what my people say about that. It is precisely that last point of the judgment that leads us to simply lack of clarity and to create a kind of new legal standard, which we think should be agreed on politically. It is also not quite clear what that means statistically and how you interpret it in the future of all these projects. So that's what we're looking at right now. We are now also discussing with the RIVM how we could interpret that. But that's not certain. That's why I'm saying it the way I said it. I have generously accepted a whole part of the ruling, because I simply feel that if you are judged by the judge on your law and it is said that you are not good enough, even on a few points, to abide by your own law, you have no defence to say that you are not going to do so. But there's something else in this part of the pronunciation. There is, in fact, a new standard, which is not intended by the legislator. That is what we say: if we are going that way, then we need to know exactly what is and is not meant to be, because otherwise we will write new law as it were. We can do all that, but we need to know where we stand, and that is not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u57	Interruptment by Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u58	Responding directly to the net saying: you don't have to appeal for that of course. You can also just ask the court what exactly is meant by it. My interruption is about the following. The Minister says: we are already going to do a number of things, on which I cannot say much. That is true, because she is still studying and answering 72 questions that we have asked, of which more than 30 are about concrete projects. That's not what this is about today. That's what we're gonna debate. The question now is whether she wants to reflect on whether too little has happened in recent years, and that by using the NSL as a sort of pubic patch, the VVD's building rage locks the country itself...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr. Van Raan, interruptions must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u60	So the question is to reflect on the past policy, not on what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u61	I would like to do that on the basis of an update of the bottlenecks, because that is the reflection: how many are there left? On the basis of this statement, RIVM has again identified the bottlenecks. This shows that the number of bottlenecks has fallen again, year after year. These are, by the way, unfiltered figures. There may also be double counts in it. We're working on that right now. A further analysis is therefore being carried out. According to RIVM, bottlenecks are almost no longer expected in 2020. The number of NO2 bottlenecks was 72 and in the previous round 99. The number of PM10 bottlenecks in livestock farming is now foreseen at 29. That was 34 in the last round. That just shows the policy. Then the judge said, "I'm not sure it's enough to finally get to zero." I have said that we agree, then, in all those areas where there are still problems, in consultation with the local administrators, to ensure that all of these places are dealt with individually. That won't be easy, because of course this isn't the low-hanging fruit anymore. These are the places where there is persistent nuisance. This has sometimes been worked on before, but not enough to have led to a good outcome. That's what we're gonna do now. That is how I look at it and I believe that the citizens of our country are entitled to it. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr Van Raan in second instance. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thanks for the answer. The Secretary of State ignores the fact that we have been in violation since 2011. Her answer is a bit like the lawbreaker who drives 190 and says: yes, but I've been slowing down for the last half hour, so I'm actually doing really well. Does the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u64	We're not doing well enough. I agree. But at least I can show what has happened in the past period. I think I have a right to show you that. The bottlenecks have not yet been removed everywhere, but in many places they have been. Are we gonna do it right? No, we're not doing well enough. That would be my reasoning, otherwise there would be no such statement. I'm not in Wonderland, so to speak. I take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u65	The Secretary of State states that she has generously accepted the judge's ruling. As if that were a generous gesture, when it is about us having to comply with a European standard since 2011 and still not doing so. My question is this. The Secretary of State points out that, as far as it is concerned, the analysis shows that it is mainly about inner cities and agricultural areas and that it is not so much about motorway measures. Yet every microgram that is emitted on a ring road around a city blows directly into a city. Then how is the highway issue around inner cities taken? Or are we now turning everything into municipalities that then have limited resources to set up environmental zones?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u66	There's no question of passing this off. It is with a very analytical precision to see where the bottlenecks are. That's what the judge asked. Where are the bottlenecks and solve them? If the bottleneck is on the Stadhouderskade, then I can't help it. Then it's there and then it has to be solved there and not in The Hague. I am therefore very willing to sit down with the aldermen of, for example, the big cities to see how we can do it together. I have previously given EUR 8 million to the municipalities where these bottlenecks are still in the inner cities in order, for example, to be able to work on environmental zones or to replace old diesels or a demolition scheme or to improve, for example, their buses to run on electricity rather than on fossil fuels. We've all done that. I find the sound as if they were on their own, and that is actually not true. But can we solve Rotterdam's problem with a ship's measure? No, I don't think so. You have to be very precise and the precision here is: solve every bottleneck. We have it right up to the street level and so we are going to solve it at street level. That's how we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it together as directors, and as far as I'm concerned, we're not pointing at each other. I don't see it that way myself. We just have to do it together. This means that sometime in November we will also come up with a proposal and that agreements have now been made to have that discussion at local level where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u67	Municipalities clearly indicate that they want more space to set up, for example, environmental zones. To do so, they need space from the Empire to implement local policies to tackle air quality. We therefore look forward to seeing this area of local policy in that plan in November. My question remains: has the impact of air pollution from, for example, motorways around large cities been included in the analysis? Will it also be added to the plans to come to the Chamber in November?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u68	The RIVM shows that the bottlenecks are not there. You may want to bring those highways in, and I see that happening all the time, but the problem is that the highway is not the bottleneck. For example, the bottleneck is on the Stadhouderskade. There's the bottleneck. There's the nuisance. That's where it needs to be addressed. Of course, we have to keep an eye on this all the time anyway; we are very precise about where the offences take place. Then we always look at highways. We've seen that a lot of miles away has been disposed of as a problem. At first it was over 1,000 kilometers. Of course, that wasn't just in the cities. Now we see that the last remaining amount of roads where there is a problem is urban. With regard to the space that local municipalities can take to come up with solutions, that is what we need to talk about. If they want to do that in a certain way, we need to be open nationwide to help them solve it properly. But it must be effective. Otherwise, it won't do us any good. It must therefore be a measure that contributes to solving the problem. We can also work on this with RIVM and all kinds of experts who can calculate it, so that we can also visualize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u69	An interruption by Mr Futselaar. To Mr Van Raan: in this round you had already interrupted. It's very unusual... oh, you had one interruption. Then I'll let you have a second. I call Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u70	A little along the lines of the last thing the Secretary of State said, the following. It is quite conceivable that in all your talks you will see resistance to certain measures and that at some point the RIVM or the Ministry says "according to us it is necessary." Frankly, I myself think of resistance rather than a little more about the agricultural areas than about the big cities. What does the Secretary of State intend to do with reluctant fellow governments, so to speak, should they be there when they reach the levels?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u71	I'm not going to assume that in advance, because that's always a bad basis for a good conversation. I assume that the local authorities, like us, see the importance of complying with the judge's ruling in this country. That means we're just gonna pick it up. Something was just suggested about environmental zones. There is no one in The Hague who forbids that. That's just what happens in the cities. There are all kinds of possibilities that one can take and one must take. As far as livestock farming is concerned, I agree with you, Mr Futselaar, that this might be a more difficult discussion. I can't entirely predict that, but my aim is to achieve the execution of the verdict. That's how we sit at the table. To the left or to the right, there are always choices to be made, as Mr Dijkstra also pointed out. You can choose between different options, but at the end of the day one thing has to be clear: we're just gonna do that, we're gonna solve those bottlenecks, in a way I think it's convincing. Otherwise, we won't execute the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u72	I think that is an understandable and, to a large extent, a satisfactory answer. I have another question about the plan that we will eventually get. Does this include any inventory of any resources that governments lack to take steps? I make no secret of it: here again I am thinking specifically of livestock farming. Some municipalities or provinces will say: I want something, but I don't think I can do it. Governments tend to point to each other in this matter. In order to achieve this progress, I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u73	We must come up with a common plan to deal with the problems that remain. We also need to see what we can do. I can't say right now that I'm expecting something we can't do. I wonder. I think it's just a matter of getting us to work it out. But you will then have a proposal that is almost pragmatic, because it simply states: this is the bottleneck and this is the solution, including the corresponding measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u74	Thank you. I see you're standing at the interrupting microphone, Mr Van Raan, but it's all being monitored exactly here, and your last interruption was indeed in two. I would therefore like the Secretary of State to continue to speak, otherwise I will have to cut the interruptions altogether. I prefer not to. So you're not getting the floor right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u75	Mrs Van Eijs asked: why is that third part of the ruling seen as an additional review? This is because current legislation lays down the accounting rules to be used in assessing air quality. We always use these calculation rules for all projects. We'll use it. The judgment added something to that, namely that the statistical probability of exceedance must be calculated. That is something that is not in our legal provisions at the moment. You could say that this is an extra headline on the regulation. Mrs Kroger said: give me now a list of all the projects that could lead to statistical overruns. As stated and as stated in the letter of 22 September, we believe that the interpretation of the Court can be interpreted in several ways. I have therefore said to the RIVM: now give your view on how we could/should execute this part of the sentence. I'm still in consultation with the RIVM. In answering the questions put by Mr Van Raan, among others, we will also discuss the method we intend to apply in the coming period and the consequences for any other projects, should that be the case. We don't know that yet. First, I need to get a picture with the RIVM of what a static statistical test looks like when we do it. They haven't decided yet. I'm afraid it's not as clear as you think it is. Mr Von Martels asked how the calculations of the RIVM were made and whether more should be measured, for example at specific locations. The RIVM shall carry out calculations on the basis of European-defined models. The RIVM then makes validation measurements to test the models according to the practice and to adapt them where necessary. I have often reported it in the Chamber: the RIVM is independent; it is itself about how it uses its expertise and the number of measurements it makes to validate a model. I'm not getting involved in that. It would be really unhealthy if I were to do that. They also asked what "sustaining effect" means. That means I'm fully enforcing the verdict, even if there's an appeal. So that's on all these points. That's just a legal fact. Mrs Kröger had a specific question, namely: can there be other people living on a farm than the farmer himself and are people or are they not considered citizens? The Council of State has recently made a statement on this and says: "At a workplace, the standards for air quality in this case do not apply to the agricultural sector, because a farm house where a farmer lives with his or her family is a workplace and all other people and all other homes are subject to the standards or standards." That is just the case law that we are dealing with. I understand that, of course, there are still a lot of questions. This debate is actually coming very early, because I had already sent a letter to the Chamber this week saying that it is also not possible for technical reasons, given the discussion we are having with the RIVM, to answer a whole section of the written questions at all. Of course, we'd like to do that right. I also understand that, after we come to your Chamber with the pragmatic proposal on how we are going to solve these problems, there is a follow-up debate. I hope this is in November. But I can't get the information any faster. We've already had the bottlenecks analyzed. RIVM's gonna take another shot at that. So we are now going to talk to the local administrators about how we are going to solve the bottlenecks together. I want to underline "together," because "saming" is really the idea. I don't want to shove it off, because I don't think that's fair, but they shouldn't either. Otherwise, we won't get out. But I think we can figure it out. Then there is the third point. You all want information on this, but I really have to wait until RIVM can tell me something meaningful about it. I can assure you that they are studying very hard, but they also want to do very well. It's not that simple. It's really a complicated part of the pronunciation. That is why we have entered into this appeal: we really need to know what its true meaning is. It is easier "pronounced" than executed. Mr President, this was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u76	Then we'll be at the end of the Secretary of State's first term. We're going straight to the second term. I give the floor first to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr. Chairman. I have a point of order. Can the sitting be suspended for two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u78	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u79	I have a point of order. Can the sitting be suspended for two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u80	You will be the first to speak, I understand. I'll allow it. I'm suspending the meeting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr. Van Raan, it is not customary to use a suspension for consultation with directors. That might be possible, but it's really unusual. I'll hold you to that two-minute suspension!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u82	I call Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u83	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I brought the wrong note. Excuse me. I'm just gonna walk back to my bench.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u84	I would remind you that speaking time is one minute. In view of the progress of the debate, I am going to hold you all to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u85	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to appeal, or to withdraw, against the judgment in Milieudefensie v. State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-258]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u86	I would like to say that the last two motions are inspired by the election programmes of D66 and the Christian Union. I would also like to say in those ten seconds that, if the country is closing, it is the fault of the VVD itself. As far as we are concerned, the country is not closing its doors to innovation, sustainability, protein transition and clean air.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr President, thank you. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the concentration of air pollution depends on many factors and is therefore difficult to predict;]] [[whereas both EU rules and the Court do not allow for unforeseen air quality bottlenecks now or in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to identify locations where there is a statistically significant risk of air quality exceedance and to forward this inventory to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Van Raan and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-261]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u89	For GroenLinks, European air quality standards should also apply to farmers and their children. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the children of livestock farmers are also entitled to healthy air;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the farms on which there are excessive levels of air pollution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-262]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, which relates to the locations where there are now exceedances or threats. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court's ruling on the interim action brought by Milieudefensie has as a consequence that the State must make clear in the short term how the limit values relating to air pollution are to be met;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Secretary of State has indicated that he intends to consult with local authorities in order to speed up and concreteise the approach to exceedances;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with local authorities, to come forward with an overview of ongoing and planned developments around the sites where exceedances are expected to increase exceedances, e.g. business expansions or traffic measures, and to indicate the measures necessary to avoid exceedances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30175-263]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u91	The motion is not a beautiful prose, but I think it will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr Van Aalst does not need a second term. I call Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I could have taken advantage of the opportunity to use the interrupting microphone. I do not have any motions, but the questions I asked in the first round are still standing as far as I am concerned. That's two of them. The RIVM states that there are uncertainties about the input data. What can we do about this? Is it true that in the case of livestock farms the data imported may be outdated? Is this taken into account? You say it's all statistically calculated, that they're calculation models. But these calculation models are based on certain data and they can be outdated. Will that be taken into account? It is clear that there have been exceedances at some of the sites mentioned. For me it is still unclear what can and cannot be done at these locations at the moment. It would be worth a lot to me if I could get a little more certainty about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u94	Thank you. We have arrived at the end of the second term of the Chamber. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. She's asking for a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u95	I will reopen the meeting and give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr President, thank you. I will respond to the questions that have been asked and the six motions that have been tabled. First of all, the motion in part No. 258 of Mr Van Raan and Mr Kröger who applied not to appeal. I have explained that the third part of the sentence is not clear to us and that we need to be able to understand and work with this kind of data. If something's not clear, you're gonna have to go after it. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. The proposal is that we should appeal on that point. It's up to your room to decide if that's wise. We think so. Then the motion to part No. 259 on the environment. I have to discourage this motion. If temporary environmental zones are to be set up because they help, they can and must, but it is not the government that sets them up. That's really up to the local government. In my view, we have no disagreement as to the possibility of this being a means, but it is not the government that will instruct us to do so. That's how I read this motion. You'd better hold or withdraw the motion. This will undoubtedly be part of the discussion that will take place, particularly in the cities. You should not ask me to instruct the congregations to do it that way. They can do so already and they do so in some cases. This will undoubtedly be part of the discussion, but this text "take care of it" is just not the relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u97	A question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u98	I would like to explain this, because there seems to have been a misunderstanding. We are not asking the government to set up independent environmental zones in cities, but to take care of them, should the municipalities not do so and the situation so requires. Hence the phrase "where relevant." In the end, the government was condemned in the verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u99	I just don't have that space, not legally either. I can't go over the head of a town and set up an environmental zone there. It just doesn't work that way. We will have to agree together on a set of effective measures to resolve the bottlenecks. If that's setting up an environmental zone, that's what I'm for. So there's zero discussion about that. However, on behalf of the State, I cannot instruct the municipality of Amsterdam, for example, to set up an environmental zone. That is what this motion is asking me, and I cannot do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mr Van Raan, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u101	Mr President, please clarify. The motion doesn't instruct the government. There really is a difference between "dedication" and "care for." "Care for" means a whole range of possibilities. Mr Futselaar also implicitly asked for this. "Take care of" means that you examine all the means and as a government see what you can do so that municipalities do something according to this verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u102	That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u103	We will, but that is not in your motion. I can't help it. That motion simply states "take care of setting up temporary environmental zones where relevant." We are going to table with the congregations, and if it is relevant, they are going to do so themselves. Then nothing on my part will stand in their way. Perhaps other measures or a combination should also be taken. I don't know yet, but they're all possible if we solve the bottleneck. You must ask me to help resolve the bottleneck and the answer is yes, with or without an environmental zone. It could also be a whole zipper. Then I come to the motion on part No. 260 that's about 120 and 130. There is now no problem along the highways. I understand that you are asking, but it does not relate to the bottlenecks that need to be resolved. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then I come to Mrs Kröger's motion on the inventory of which sites and now we have a statistically significant opportunity, the motion at No. 261. I would advise against this motion, but I would also like to explain what I am going to do, because that is close to it. The legislation on air quality control does not take the statistical approach into account. I explained that to you in the first term. There are therefore several interpretations possible. That's why we're appealing. The NSL report contains a map showing the chances of exceedance, not per location, but per municipality. We will publish them in November. He'll come to you, of course. I must first have completed the discussion with the RIVM, also on how we now deal with the third part of the judge's ruling; how do we literally give it hands and feet? So I'll come back to that. That is what you will see in the letter and in the answer to the questions. We usually just report on the basis of municipalities showing a statistical probability of exceedance, and we will continue to do so anyway. The motion in part No. I also advise 262 of Mr Kröger and Mr Van Raan against what I have just said. There's a very recent statement from the Council of State. That is such an important body that it is not very obvious to put that statement aside now. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. That is also what I am doing with the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 261.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u104	One moment. There is a question from Mrs Kröger. I assume it's about her own motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u105	That's right, thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 262 calls for a study to be carried out on which farms, which are also residential, would be subject to excessive levels of air pollution. Next, the question is what you do about it and what legal frameworks there are to do about it, but this is a research motion to find out how big the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u106	I must honestly say that I really have no idea whether that is possible at all and what that does not ask. You know that I am already busy with RIVM anyway with the first question: what is the statistical probability of exceedance and for what problems does this mean or not? We really have our hands full with that. I'd really like to ask you not to ask this. I don't even know if this is possible and if RIVM is even designed to do so by farmhouse. You're asking a lot of questions. Frankly, I think that in view of this verdict, we have just a few other priorities that need to be taken up as a matter of priority. I'm sure you'll agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u107	We are talking about thousands of children in farmhouses exposed to polluted air. So that's what we care about. The point is that the problem-solving analysis does include residential houses, but that this does not happen if the house is covered by a farm. So can the Secretary of State ask RIVM if the farms can be included in the bottlenecks analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u108	I shall come back to that when I answer the questions. We can't discuss that with each other right now. I'll tell you why. This is a very specific technique. I don't know what the RIVM can or can't deliver, so I'm just gonna put that question there. When answering the written questions, I simply come back to what RIVM can and cannot do. Because we don't know how to pull that out of the back pocket. I'm not quite Chief RIVM yet, I'll say. The last motion, in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). 261. So we are going to go back to showing opportunities for exceedance at municipal level. We come back to you: how does RIVM look at the third part of the sentence and how do we try to explain it? That approach is quite different from the question you are asking here, but they are close together. The last point was Mr von Martels' question. In part, therefore, I cannot give the answers, because we are still discussing the statistical opportunity. I told you, I can't answer every question today. When it comes to the dates entered, because that was your first question, the overview of the remaining bottlenecks in livestock farming received your Chamber on 22 September. This is based on an updated background concentration and indeed frozen detail import data from livestock farms from the NSL monitoring tool 2016. We decided to do this in consultation with the RIVM because previous years have shown that the number of changes to those import dates is really very small and the biggest impact overruns are the result of the background concentration. Next year, there will again be the possibility, also for local authorities, to update those details. In dealing with the remaining bottlenecks, we will of course also look at them. So if we go around the table for that, we will of course also do a check on those points to see what that might give us with new image. Then we'll be paying attention to that. I'm telling you. End of the line, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-4.u109	Then we are at the end of the debate. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled and suspend the sitting until 1.40 p.m.
